ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u1	1. Situation in the Czech Post I have three requests for a speech before the debate is opened. Minister Vít Rakušan, then Vice-President Karel Havlíček will appear... excuse me, I'm sorry, President Andrej Babiš. And then Chairman Tomio Okamura. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u2	Madam Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, the topic of today's meeting is Czech Post and I am quite looking forward to discussing the Czech Post. I wonder what kind of arguments will be about the justification that the Czech Post has historically gotten into the unhappy state in which it is now. How will the opposition representatives be able and willing to explain to us that nothing has happened to the Czech Post for many years, and the situation has escalated to a situation where we are actually turning away completely really so that the Czech Post does not get into insolvency, so that Czech Post is here to make Czech Post exist. How it will be explained that the ČTÚ proposed the abolition of thousands of branches in 2015, without any reaction from the then government, etc. I'm sure the situation itself has been framed historically in some way. If we're gonna make excuses for being someone, he's not supposed to be a good manager, I'm gonna take five of the taxes I'm gonna give you here. Imagine whether you're the manager of a company or you're the mayor of the city and you make a benchmark of some company that you have with you, and you find that the company has the largest branch network compared to all of them. You'll find that the company has the most employees of all comparable companies. You'll find that the employees are the worst paid in comparable companies. You'll find that your company is generating the biggest loss, and you'll find that there's no satisfaction with her services. So you're facing a management decision that's pretty simple. Either close the company, which is a legitimate decision, and if you look at the public debate, there is a reservation on the closing of 300 branches, and on the other hand there is a reservation - is the český Post worth saving at this point? We have decided to make this a more difficult solution - to save the český mail. And I stress this once again: to save the Czech Post. Because the whole transformation process that's started isn't anything else at the time. Czech mail awaits major changes in the following two years. Changes that are necessary in order for the Post to survive and be a viable institution of the twenty-first century. That the changes were supposed to come, I don't know, ten, fifteen, five years earlier, that's quite an indisputable fact. And the state has long proved to be an irresponsible manager of its own business, even if it knew where the Czech Post is developing, how it looks with its services, which have fallen in the entire branch network since 2018, all services provided, interest in services provided by the Czech Post, by 40 percent. The trend of the decline in letter volume in a total of 20 per cent per year over the last five years. It is also accelerated by the entire digitization of the Czech state, when the DEPO law applies, and only the use of data boxes by self-employed persons makes the loss of the Czech Post at the predicted amount of another 2 billion. This is the situation in which the Czech Post has been continuously in loss since 2018. I say the date again - since 2018. Question, why haven't there been changes a year ago? Well, I could tell you why they didn't happen five years ago. But that's a different question. This is a question of some political courage, a question of whether there is a political will to make even unpopular decisions that, of course, hurt at some time. But a year ago, it was necessary to clean the Czech Post into words and letters, exchange the Czech Post Supervisory Board, get 6 billion for universal service, that is, for the money, or the money that the state did not put in the Czech Post, even though it ordered services from the Czech Post. And the fact that the Czech Post had to borrow from commercial institutions for large interest is a clear fact. Last year the regional directorate was canceled, 30 people from middle management, so-called white collars were released, the remaining assets of the Czech Post were sold, opening hours at the public post office were optimized. And last year it was also decided that the transformation of the Czech Post must definitely begin. [[15.30 hours]] We are currently discussing the cancellation of 300 branches of Czech Post. I'm sure it's awkward. The branch network in the Czech Republic consisted of 3,200 branches. It was the largest and largest postal network in the whole of the European Union. If we reduce the number of branches by 300 and get to 2,900, we still have the largest branch network in the European Union. By the way, the number of Czech Post employees per 10,000 inhabitants in the Czech Republic is around 50. If we compare, for example, with Estonia, which has already embarked on a path of simplification and digitization, there is a number of employees per 10,000 inhabitants 11. I am merely showing that the Czech Post is a long-term unsolved problem. And why the unsolved? Because she didn't bring any political points. Because he wasn't interested in going into a reform that would always be painful. And what I'm saying for the government is that we've been saying from the beginning that we won't be afraid of steps that won't bring applause in the first phase, but secondarily they can bring value. And the two-year transformation of the Czech Post, which should be completed in 2025, will bring that value. The value of a modern postal institution that will provide the services the state orders from it, namely the services of the 21st century. And I will add the sentence B, and that the Czech Post will also pay for these services. It's strange, but it's a thing that hasn't been obvious in the past few years. What are the planned steps for the nearest time that mean the emergency brake itself. 3 200 branches are changed to 2,900 service seats, the compensation limit for the provision of universal service is abolished, the preliminary net cost is increased. He works in an inter-resorative transformation team with external specialists and specialists, which prepares a transformation plan for how the Czech Post will work, how the Czech Post will look and what services it will provide. This is a transformation plan. Transformation is not a cancellation of 300 branches. And the transformation plan, as the opposition has said several times, is not even 18 pages where it is said that the company needs to be divided into two parts that will have some kind of financing model. That's the assignment. But the actual development of the transformation plan is still awaiting us. It is that we have finally started to do something about the Czech Post. We didn't invent the password, we didn't invent it, but we fill it. We can already say in rough terms how we imagine the český Post. Czech Post in the near future represents an extended sort of offline hand of the state. It should be a detached department of the state administration that combines elements of digitization, physical service or assistance. It is able, of course, to provide postal financial services by means of a verification post office of public administration operating beyond the classical agenda of Czech POINT. For example, he will be able to apply here for a social benefit, settle the basic agendas of the Financial Office, take advice in the area of state-written subsidies and so on. The network of branches of the Czech Post should integrate various services of state administration which are not worth operating separately in the regions and therefore disappear from them, as we can see from the financial authorities as well. And this is also the purpose of what branches have been selected. It is a false argument to say that the Czech Post is disappearing from villages, municipalities, weak regions, rural areas. On the contrary. Our transformation went the way that where there is one branch of the Czech Post, the branch remains. It is precisely because, in the countryside, in small towns and in municipalities, the post office is often the only amount of government, the only touch of the state still available to people. That's why we're not disturbing one branch anywhere. If branches have been reduced, then in those cities where the branch network will still be maintained after the reduction, so that the postal network is available to people throughout the Czech Republic. I would like to stress and recall that Hungarian Post has gone completely backwards: to abolish rural mail and centralize these services to larger cities. I'm sure it's a legitimate path, but that's not what we're doing. Because rural service is a fundamental value to us, which we will be able to use just after the transformation project, so that the post office provides basic services to the state administration in many segments. It is our ambition for the post office to be the last outpost of the state, even in those places where the state is otherwise not physically present. The discussion, as I registered it in the inclusion of individual items of the program in the past weeks, was - why is the mail canceled there or onde? It is, however, a fundamental misunderstand of what the government decides, and also a fundamental misunderstand of what politicians are supposed to decide, or if you want a statesman. We are to decide whether the post will be sustainable in the long term, it will function meaningfully throughout our country. If we reduce the debate to why that branch in Kladno has been chosen to cancel another office, then we do not understand what the mission of us as governments is, but also us as Parliament. We're supposed to set the basic framework. Discussions on specific branches are conducted on the axis of Czech Post, its management and mayors, mayors and mayors. That's the way it's supposed to be. The post office meets and the mayors of all 113 municipalities involved in the reduction of branches meet in the near future. I would like to stress that all municipalities in the Czech Republic are 113 cities where the postal network is reduced. This is the number of mayors that the management of the Czech Post has either dealt with or will, of course, deal with in the near future. Sometimes we heard sentences: mail used to be in every village. Well, that doesn't exactly match, because in the next 2,620 municipalities throughout our country, the mail stays. 113 cities where the post is reduced, 2 620 municipalities throughout our country, where the post has not been reduced in any way. Even with the best of will, the mayors could not have been drawn forward in any crucial way. Seven hundred million a year, if anyone at this point is saying it's not enough, I'm saying that of the total amount of all financial operations of 200 billion, it's quite a large amount. And every year this amount of CZK 700 million is saved by the cancellation of 300 branches of Česká pošta. I very much hope that the discussion will be conducted not only on the line that we are canceling, but on the line of what we can and must do with the Czech Post. Why nothing was done with the Czech Post sooner and why it had to get into the state in which it is now. Perhaps someone will also have a conscience and will also bring about some political responsibility of their own. The decision to select the post office basic framework is given by the Czech Telecommunications Office. This suggests the number of canceled branches, which the government discussed of course and voted on. Not about individual branches. This is the decision of the management of the Czech Post. This decision is an expert decision and the selection of branches is governed by the said regulation: walking distance, economic criteria known by the Post office, the capacity of branches, the distribution of services provided and circumstances such as accessibility of public transport, parking possibilities. It is therefore a combination of criteria which the pošta Office evaluates individually in each municipality, for each branch. The mayor is then consulted by the pošta on whether there is any particular aspect in the locality that could change the selected branch in the territory. In individual cases, but not many, this also happened. And partial examples that repeatedly sound, such as the Mariánské spa branch and its stairs, the Post office can solve technical measures without problems and has repeatedly stated this. [[15.40 hours]] I really understand the dissenting attitude of the mayors as the former mayor. The task of the mayor of the principle of his function and position is to do everything to ensure that comfort for his residents in various segments of services is not limited in any way. But it is our job to ensure that basic services are provided in a certain quality and throughout the country. And if we didn't go into the reduction of the branch network and the subsequent transformation, we would be in a state where there would be no branches of the Czech Post in the Czech Republic, because the Czech Post would be in such trouble that it would cease to exist. At present, I have an overview of how the Czech Post negotiations are taking place, and I must say that out of the 113 contacted municipalities, the proposed change has now been accepted in 26 cases, in 39 percent it is a neutral position with partial opposition, in 25 percent it is still being held, because the mayor's position is rejected for some local reason. On the contrary, I think the figures show that the work of management of the Czech Post and in the field certainly has its meaning and the negotiations that are taking place with the mayors and mayors have rationality and, of course, their results. The reduction of the branch network is certainly understandable, and I hope that finally also for those 113 mayors involved in some mayor's solidarity that must be here, because the fact that the branch will be cancelled means that the branch of the Czech Post will be preserved and served by the citizens of the Czech Republic in 2,620 other municipalities. That's quite clear. The fact that postal services will remain in such a large number of municipalities in our country that they will be added to other services of the Czech Post in the following years, I am very glad for that. And I believe we all follow this target, whether we're in opposition or in government benches. We follow the goal of the Czech Post providing modern services to citizens of the Czech Republic. It may be good to remind the debate that even many opposition politicians are copying my speech sometime in 2019. They commented on the reduction of the branch network, they even commented on the fact that the Czech Post was to sell its assets and that the reduction of the branch network was absolutely necessary. I'm happy to read it here in this discussion, to see how a change of opinion develops in years. I hope that we will stop looking for individual nits on the project of the transformation of Czech Post, such as those mythical steps at the post office in Mariánské Lázně, and focus our attention on things that have some stately significance, which means that we have modern, affordable, financially sustainable postal services throughout the Czech Republic. Not cutting 300 branches, but transforming and modernising Czech Post into the 21st century, its survival, that is the aim of this government, that is the goal of the transformation of Czech Post. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u3	Thank you, Minister. Another priority right is President Andrej Babiš and then President Tomio Okamura will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u4	So thank you for your word. Madam President, honourable Members, I was very excited to read an article in the Lidové noviny today - it belongs to a trust fund, some call it the party press. So imagine that in the party press, respectable visitors, young people, there was an article by the Minister. [[towards the gallery for guests]] And I was shocked that normally there wasn't a single attack. Normally there's no Babiš, there's no YES movement. Nothing. So great, yeah. The Minister's speech wasn't like that anymore, he's talking about political responsibility, clearly. But the political responsibility, we would have to go back to the time of the Investment and Postal Bank or to the time that most damaged the Czech mail, that it had given away the best business, banking business, outsourcing. And, Minister, there is no one in this room who was in charge of the Czech Post Office. And believe me, as Minister of Finance, I've done this and I've criticized the contracts very vehemently. But for you, the contracts are the same. So the criticism against you is that, on the one hand, you've been in the government for 488 days, you've replaced the Supervisory Board, which I don't know what it's doing, if there's a reward or if there's only bread in it. And how is it that the Post Office was buying furniture for $52 million again and still spending money? After all, the Supervisory Board should have banned all contracts long ago, which will certainly be discussed by colleagues. So that's the problem. You were talking here, Minister, about the transformation plan, and at the same time you added that the plan is not actually drawn up, that it has not been drawn up. I don't understand why, why there wasn't a plan, why it wasn't introduced and why you actually started from the wrong end, by closing those branches, if, but that's the detail, that's not going to save the Post office, so the mayors could take over, and I'm sure they'd be happy to provide those services in my opinion. In past statements, Minister, you have always - so, of course, it's all Babiš's or Babiš. What we did. Well, for the period from 2014 and 2017, it's very interesting, the Post office was still in profit. During this period, including 2013, the Post Office received CZK 3.6 billion and another 2.6 billion during the period of our government. So, under our governments, I repeat again to all those who claim that we were in government for eight years and as we had influence, I repeat again that the YES movement in the first government had six ministers, and our influence on that government was that Sobotka kicked me out of the government in May 2017. And imagine that the disadvantageous contract with the bank was extended by 10 years in June 2017. And under this reign of Sobotkův, there was some Home Secretary with some gig that really pissed me off, but the group is advising the Prime Minister today and running the Ministry of Industry. They were there, they were there, and we were like the YES movement, which had only six ministers, yes, I, as Finance Minister, was fundamentally opposed to funding the Post Office, where it is normally stolen, where business is normally done. That's it! And the same situation, and I'm not saying the same situation, but our position in the minority government was the same. So, Minister, please, political responsibility, yes, we can talk, we can talk about IPB, we can talk about the 300 million that were paid out to Creditanstalt Investment Bank and Cyprus, but I don't want to talk about it. Like I understand you're not responsible for the situation. But now that you're saying how you're gonna handle this, I don't know what happened there for 488 days. And why do they keep putting up business? [[15.50 hours]] There was a new survey, and of course the ODS has 20 percent in Kantar. And why did the Czech Post give Kantar 2 million? For what? Why do you keep giving money to someone? Why? Just end it. So don't be surprised these people are upset. And what we're criticizing here is that you don't actually have a transformation plan. I don't know what the $9 billion is. What's that? Is that a loan or what? Are they gonna sell real estate? Which real estate? And I agree with you that this headquarters is a fantastic building, a historic building, an amazing building, a very valuable building. And if you decide to sell the building, I say yes. But do it the way I did selling Hybernie. That was the first auction in the history of this country since the revolution. Auction open. Hybernia, that's across from the Obecňák. I think we auction 987 million, ÚZSVM. So don't give it to anybody, because this building, yes, if you decide to deal with it like this, it really shouldn't get the city of Prague or anyone, but normally sell it, and maybe somebody will give it $2 billion. I don't know, but if you have some transformational plan, he should have been introduced comprehensively so we could read it so we could know what the strategy was. And of course it's good that you want to deal with it, but you just started from the wrong end. 300 branches actually, and still in places where it really makes a problem. I don't understand why you didn't allow the Communist Party to take it as part of the Postal Partner. But that's not the point. The point is that I would like someone to explain to me, when the Czech Post reported de facto, showed a profit by 2017, yes, and in 2017 it had a profit of 110 million, so when we calculate the profits of the Czech Post from 2013 to 2017, the Czech Post reported a profit of 1 billion 99 million and at the same time received support from the government when I was Minister of Finance, support of 1.5 billion. So I just remember how many letters I had to write to the Home Secretary who refused to show me the Post Office's management, where management took hundreds of thousands of salaries and had super cars, and those poor mailgirls had $20,000, $21,000. Yes, that's how it worked. I criticized it, yes. You can criticize me, but I wasn't Prime Minister. We didn't have a majority in government. So please don't tell me we didn't care. We didn't have the strength, and I just fought it, but if you're pretending to want to deal with it, then why didn't you stop the contracts? 53 million some furniture, some hypermodern? Well, if you want to close the 300 post office, there's probably gonna be some furniture, right? We have furniture in Thomayerka from 1960, for example. There's furniture in hospitals, I don't know what, 50 years old. Well, we don't know what the transformation plan is, nine billion, I don't know what it's for. I just want to say one thing: yes, the Minister is right that for many years nothing has happened. Well, because you guys destroyed the Post Office, the traditional parties just destroyed it at the beginning. And if the post-November cartel reacts irritablely that I want to write the history of our country since 1989, then the Czech Post as a chapter deserves it. And you know why? I wrote a book with my colleagues 2016 about what I dream about when I happen to sleep. And that's where I said that after the revolution, we were supposed to go to the world, Singapore. The Prime Minister is in Singapore today. That's where they learn that Singapore's funds make tens of billions of dollars, because the state, when it invests, and well, and it doesn't steal, so it's cool, it's a coupon. So where were our predecessors going after the revolution? The Benelux. Belgium, Minister. There's bpost in Belgium. Belgium has 11.6 million inhabitants. It is a leading Belgian postal operator and company operating in logistics, packages, omnicomersce in Europe. The market value of a billion euros is 24 billion, 34,500 employees. Czech Post has 25 000. 2,500 retail branches. And the ownership structure? Well, 51 percent own the Belgian state. The segment structure of the company. 5.6 million mail and newspapers delivered daily! 549,000 delivered packages a day! Belgium and Holland. E-logistics, North America, provides services e-commerce logistics. Bpost, there they should have chosen after the revolution and said to them: Look, we also have the Post Office. And maybe this great asset, which could have been a unique place for all residents of the Czech Republic, behind one counter solved all the money, pensions, actually payments, Postal Savings Bank, so here we have it - bpost. Netherlands, 17.6 million inhabitants. It's called the post office PostNL. The largest platform for parcel delivery in Benelux. Sales of 3.1 billion euros. In Belgium, sales are EUR 4.4 billion. EBIT Belgium, EUR 279 million, that is 24 billion. Those are companies that spend money, dividends! Yes, historically here, yes, the political responsibility is with those who were there at the beginning. Well, your movement was there, too, but not at the very beginning. So we can argue here who has what responsibility. I was always sorry, there was a historical chance of making something out of it. Well, I'll get back to the Netherlands. There are 35 600 employees, 5 500 retail branches, 500 (?) automatic dispensing boxes, segmental structure, 7.4 million delivered letters a day, packages 1.1 million delivered packages a day. And we can talk about the post office in Austria, how it makes money, how it works. So, yes, here's another piece of evidence of how the P.O.D. cartel destroyed this asset. Definitely. So, yes. And they gave up on it, the branch network. Yes. And that mail, when you say it's not important, but if someone were to think and make a small shop at each of those post offices, maybe we should have the Biedronka, as the Prime Minister's advisor actually says, so that our people, citizens, go shopping in Poland. And maybe there was a pub that worked too. So we can argue here who's responsible. I'm not saying that. You're the one who didn't mention it in the Lidové noviny today, so I really appreciated that. You were implying that again today. We're just saying that the attitude -- first of all, it's all too late, second of all, it bothers us that somebody's still doing business there. Now what was that there? Yeah, actually, the furniture company that ends up somewhere, I don't know, somewhere off-the-top. Again. I don't know why. That would be good, Minister, if you'd already told the director, I don't know who the director is there to stop doing this kind of business. Why? I mean, she's... It's not gonna bring anything to the post office. So historically, it's a destroyed asset. The contract was extended, yes, after Sobotka kicked me out of the government in June 2017, that's the contract, that's the chance that wasn't used to at least make something from the point of view of the banking sector in the hands of the state. And that's gone. And, of course, it's not the current minister or we. So it would be a good idea if you really went about it objectively and didn't talk about political responsibility. That's all there is to it. [[16.00 hours]] I just don't understand it, and I didn't know it when I demanded it, what happened at the turn of 2017 and 2018 when the Post Office actually made 110 million profits - and you're going to call me when you were in government. Yeah, sure, I was in the government. In a minority government. Yes, we did, but we didn't really have the strength to push it through. But it would be nice to explain what happened there. How is it possible now that, finally, in 2022 - and it would be good to publish the economic result - finally landed from Europe or after Europe's approval, 6 billion 750 million. So when it all counts, 6 billion 750 million, and before that, since 2013, that's 10 billion 350 million. So what happened out there? Why is that? The fact that the Post Office - yes, I understand, you haven't gotten any principal yet, we've been looking for him, we haven't, Hamáček was looking for him - that maybe the managers weren't exactly ideal. The best manager in the history of the Czech Post was Karel Kratina, yes, and of course he didn't steal. Former Director of HVB. Well, when Topolánkův's government came in, I think they fired him because they didn't want a guy like that running an honest government firm and they don't want to do business. Well, then, when we were in the government, I put him on the Supervisory Board, but he just didn't fit in with his colleagues, so he finally left. But I understand that getting a good director is a problem. So what I'm saying is that those who destroyed the Czech Post are the ones who... It started in the '90s. And I don't want to talk about the IPB, I don't want to talk about the contracts and all that, but I mean, it's a huge shame that the state missed this chance. I explained our position. So I'd like to ask you not to start any more debates about... There's no one here from the current opposition who's involved in any bad influence at the Post Office. On the contrary, we criticized it. There was the same crew, you have it at the Office of the Government. So ask that little Růžička how they did it, right? Friends. They're at the MIT now. Allegedly. The lawyer, the bunch that sold under the OKD price, and then they had it tweaked. Well, let's not talk about this again. That's what we're gonna write in history because young people here who are on the balcony have no idea what's happened here since the revolution. So we, what do we say? Transformation plan, you said yourself it isn't yet. I don't understand why you came up with those branches. That was supposed to be part of it, and you should have given the mayors a chance. Nine billion - we don't know where they're going. I just don't understand why the Czech Post is still concluding contracts. You were supposed to have spoken on some committee, Minister, that those contracts were already there for Hamáček. Maybe they were. As Minister of Finance, I had a huge problem getting into the books at all, because the state's accounting is that even the Treasury can't see into every contract. So if you agree that it's wrong for the Czech Post to keep giving money to someone, when you say you're saving her from bankruptcy, it should end, and not that we still hear money being spent there for nothing. It doesn't matter if it's - there's millions of dollars there. This is unbelievable. Maybe it would be a good idea to publish the whole thing. No, the contracts are still blacked out there. I don't understand how anyone can actually handle this, and that's okay with the board. What's with the board of supervisors? She should probably be controlling the efficiency of the state enterprise. So, of course, the debate began on the basis of a decision that is unacceptable to us. We think you should convince the Czech Post to offer those branches to those mayors and mayors as part of the Post Partner program. They're ready to take over. But, of course, that doesn't have any major effect on what happens to the pošta Office. The transformation plan should cover everything. The mail has huge assets. I was talking about the building in Prague. And then, of course, when the networks again speculate, which branches, in which places they actually belong to somebody again, then people are angry and, of course, it's unacceptable for us too. So I just wanted to say that the history of the Czech Post began with the creation of the Investment and Postal Bank. I was talking about it, it's a shame, it can't be fixed, unfortunately. But we would be happy if you would discuss with us normally and we could just get an explanation for all the different things that happened. Because for me the losses - if the Post Office gets $6 billion more than 750 million in the period from 2018 to 2022 and has already received $2.6 billion already, this has already been paid, in 2018 the Post Office received $800 million, in 2019 the Post Office received $500 million, in 2020 300 million, and now it will receive $6 billion more than 750 million. Allegedly, it's all accounted for. But I don't understand how huge amounts like this, if they're accounted for, and supposedly they are, can produce such a crazy loss. I don't understand. And it would be good if the management of the Czech Post explained it, we would really be interested in how it is possible to make such losses in the first place and where it all comes from and comes from. Because we just don't have the information. So it's about that much for me. The history is complicated. We can wonder who's responsible here. I'm just repeating again that the transformation plan was to be submitted first, and then there was to be some... In fact, it wasn't supposed to be a decision, because I believe that the 300 branches, if there aren't any real estate business intentions behind it, aren't really going to save the Czech Post, and those local politicians, including the politicians behind the five coalitions, are going to be happy to do so and continue to provide those services to citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. President Tomio Okamura is now registered with priority rights. Before I give him my word, I'll read the apology. Mr Špičák apologizes within 11 hours and 15 hours for reasons of work. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, today we have a meeting of the House with a point called Situation at the Czech Post Office. I will tell the SPD that we refuse to cancel the Czech Post offices and the release of their operating staff. We reject the inability of government politicians, now specifically the Minister of the Interior of Rakušan of the STAN movement, to pay both honest employees of the Post Office and clients. Disturbing the branches of the Czech Post will damage all citizens and especially seniors, and not only those. According to the SPD, Czech Post provides irreplaceable public service and its branch network must be maintained. I reject the very principle of abolishing these branches, which still provide postal services in cities to hundreds of thousands of our citizens, as well as an entirely opaque process, when there was no negotiations with representatives of municipalities at municipal or regional level, and when there are also barrier-free and newly expensively renovated branches among the cancelled branches. Mayors and mayors across the Republic and the entire political spectrum are also protesting the cancellation of Czech Post offices. This decision will in particular damage our seniors, which will complicate pension selection and access to various other public services, which are so-called Czech POINTs, which could be extended by other services. According to the SPD, Czech Post provides irreplaceable public service and its branch network must be maintained. [[16.10 hours]] Moreover, the Minister of the Interior Vít Rakušan of the STAN movement tries to limit the payment of pensions at the Post Offices to damage the pensioners. Czech Post needs quality management without the intervention of political traders. Minister of Interior Vít Rakušan, under which the management of the Czech Post falls, called the payment of pensions at branches of the Czech Post a great security risk last week. It is therefore intended to limit the collection of cash pensions at these branches. This is another step of government that would severely damage our seniors, and many of them would basically make it impossible to access their legal pensions because they do not have bank accounts managed. At the same time, it is alibiism, which Minister Rakušan seeks to prevent future inevitable problems in the collection of pensions following the planned unsystemic and chaotic abolition of 300 branches of Czech Post, which still serve hundreds of thousands of clients in larger cities. At the same time, the ministrův's proposal is part of the pressure to limit the use of cash, which is very dangerous and an absolutely unacceptable trend for the SPD movement. On the contrary, we demand the right to use cash in the constitutional order of the Czech Republic. Cancellation of 300 branches of Czech Post by the government of Petr Fiala from ODS will irreversibly damage thousands of households, our seniors and also significantly reduce the availability of public postal services throughout the Czech Republic. Czech Post requires an in-depth audit of management and needs quality management without interference and political influences. The problem of the Czech Post is a demonstration not only of the age-old inability of ministers, but of the entire governments under which the administration of the Post Office falls. For years, the Czech Post was for the ruling tobacconist politicians, where friends of friends were sent, who received a million-dollar reward for hundreds of millions of losses, and where money was probably tunneled through various routes, for example, to support selected parties. The media reported that the Czech Post with 27 000 employees consumes over two tens of billion crowns per year, of which more than 13 billion will be spent on staff. The State must be clear about the way it continues to finance at the latest in the summer. Otherwise, it would have been dependent on commercial loans, which would probably have led to a further increase in postal services. Their prices have risen twice in a short time. For this year the company already has 1.5 billion crowns from the state, the same amount will be paid next year. But it is not enough to cover the so-called universal service, i.e. the operation of 3,200 branches and the obligation to deliver letters or packages to any address in the Czech Republic. In recent years, we have experienced record-breaking, word-to-word, record-breaking increases in online trades and the associated record growth of transported shipments. Transport of consignments has become one of the most promising fields and is also, of course, profitable. When I mention this in the context of a time when sales in shipments are growing at a record rate, the Czech Post, under the leadership of ruling politicians, has record losses. That's a terrible paradox. And the management of the Czech Post in terms of its management and strategic thinking is visibly characterised by a combination of incompetence and human stupidity. The truth is that the Czech Post should also be supported by the state, but not only by giving it subsidies, but by not stealing from it or privatizing profitable activities. The Czech post office basically, to say the same, was tunneled by all previous governments, all of which had a milk cow, from which they cut off the best pieces in the long term. Privatization of the freight transport in the Czech Post expensive one kilometre of transport by 30 CZK. In the overall raid of all, now private, trucks delivering packages for the Czech Post, the difference is huge. And it is also one of the reasons why last year is so deficitful, that is, 1.5 billion crowns. Disturbing and selling buildings in lucrative places is once again a chance for someone to steal at least some of what's left. Do we want the Post Office not to be loss-making? Ladies and gentlemen, one thing is enough - to manage and not steal responsibly. It's a recipe that doesn't seem to smell good to many, but it's the only right solution. Do you want the Post Office to make money from the state? There is nothing simpler - just not to steal and run it the same way managers run private mail order companies not only in the surrounding countries, but also in our country. Let me give you a notorious example, which is PPL. PPL is originally a Czech company dealing with express parcel and courier transport, further transport of pallets, companies and individuals. It was established in 1995 as a union of seven regional carriers. In 2006, DHL, one of Deutsche Post's divisions in Germany, bought the company, and DHL is part of Deutsche Post DHL Group, a leading worldwide postal and logistics company with 555 000 employees. Today, PPL specializes in parcel transport to and from the Czech Republic. It employs nearly 1,000 workers and 2,000 drivers and has 25 depots, two central hubs and a network of 4,000 dispensing and feeding sites. Last year, the company created a net profit of CZK 573 million on turnover. Czech Post increased the loss to more than 1.5 billion from the previous 681 million crowns last year. This compared to the daughter of the German Post, she only had over half a billion profits with a thousand people and the Czech Post had more than 1.5 billion losses with 27,000 employees. To blame it on the so-called universal service, that is to say letters and a decline in the demand for services, cannot be done. Plus, people pay regular for letters. The volume of shipments has been increasing continuously for several years. Only the profits from the sales are made by other companies. What's a dog buried in? Primarily, instead of investing in profitable activities, Czech governments have been selling them to their friends and their friends, and the losers are leaving them to the state. Why didn't PPL buy Czech Post? Why didn't we buy the profit company to make money for us and not the German Post Office? The PPL is ranked second in the B2C segment in various surveys after the Czech Post, both in terms of volume of shipments and popularity among customers. Most of its shipments are delivered on the day following dispatch and have a high percentage of delivery. The receipt allows you to pay with a credit card. Of course, transport via PPL is cheaper than the Czech Post. And if you want to get the package the next day and God forbid deliver it all the way home, it's unfortunately impossible science fiction for the Post Office. The PPL will come to your house for your shipment and will deliver it to your door after telephone arrangements. Tell people one reason why they should trust the government-controlled Czech Post in this situation with the shipment, when it is overpriced, they do not have a guarantee when they will receive the package, and they must go to the post office and, in the vast majority of cases, they will not deliver it to him at home, so they must go back to the post office for him. Not to mention that at least there are many-minute queues at the post office in Prague. And at the same time, these mails are being worked on by tired and overloaded people who like their jobs, mostly women who pull heavy packages and have orders to force elk on people. Go to the post office and look at the IT system the mailmen work with. This is an incredible Middle Ages when people have to charge each item separately. The system, of course, cannot scan addresses or bills for example, so in the end, the lady must enter everything manually behind the counter. What takes a few seconds elsewhere is dragged a hundred times longer at the Czech Post office and gives a hundredfold job in quotation marks. In addition to thousands of honest employees, Czech Post also has branches and many buildings. Why can't government politicians use this potential? I am the Minister of the Interior, so I go to the managers of the PPL and drag them into the Czech Post and lure them to the target reward for the results in black numbers and give them all kinds of support, including the fact that instead of the commercial Belgian bank and insurance company, which operates in Czech branches, I would put, for example, the state insurance company VZP. I mean the daughter of VZP, who offers commercial products. And, if necessary, I would set up a state-owned commercial savings bank that would offer bank products at advantageous prices. [[16.20 hours]] And, of course, the Czech Post could also work as a state telecommunication company, which would once again offer telecommunication services to citizens at low prices and profit would not go abroad but into the state pocket. Profit double, because cheap services that reduce people's costs are de facto their income, by which social expenditure would be reduced. So where's the buried dog? It is only unwillingness, but also the mental inability of governments to do something systemic. Propaganda taught us that communists were morons, so when they had state firms, it's wrong. Well, he's just a dumb opinion, because when we look at developed Western countries, and we don't have to go far, for example, to Germany or France, the governments of these countries have shares in prosperous companies, whether they're their carmakers or other companies. In Mexico, for example, if I go further away from Europe, decades ago, Američan nationalized all oil wells, refineries, and petrol pumps, and the state has a monopoly on all oil production. Thanks to this, people have extremely cheap fuel, the state has profits from their sales, and thanks to this, it can afford virtually zero taxes for a large proportion of citizens as well as free education and health, while poor children also have free school buses, school uniforms or lunches. And thanks to the fact that small street vendors don't pay any taxes, there's no need, colleagues, no need for an EET, no need for a horde of bureaucrats and papers. Is it right-wing? Levice? I think it's wise. The state has always had to and will have to live off of something, and the necessary money can either make a living or steal it dirty by violence to people and businesses, for example, the way the Fialův government is planning to do, by raising taxes. When Karel IV. He founded a parish, a church or a university, so he didn't write any more taxes. No. He gave the institution a farm, a field, a forest, and thus secured the institution's self-financing for centuries to come. This is not just the way to pension reform. Firms like the Czech Post must not be a burden on the state, but they are a great potential that we must learn to use. It's okay, it's okay. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. Here I would like to point out that the post office in the surrounding countries is in the plus, for example, the Austrian post office is in the plus, and the Polák have already gotten in the plus. And I would also like to say that even the loss of CZK 1.5 billion last year, and that less than a billion in the previous year, really when we put it into the context of the state budget, where tens of billions of crowns are spent on total nonsense that brings nothing at all to Czech citizens, it is simply a political decision, whether it be expensive foreign purchases, expensive foreign aid out of the Czech Republic, so basically that the government is throwing money away everywhere, possibly abroad, and that is literally a hundredfold more, literally a hundredfold more, and then it does not have the money to provide basic services for Czech citizens. And it's not only the branches of the Czech Post, you want to cancel branches of financial offices, which are often used by small businessmen, the availability of health care is getting worse, I've already talked about dentists, but other things, drugs, everything costs a lot of money, now you've reduced pension valorization, which means, basically, you've robbed 3 million recipients of old-age and disability pensions, and that's the money that makes life standards worse for citizens of the Czech Republic. So it is in comparison with how the government is dumping tens of billions abroad at the expense of our citizens that, of course, cannot be defended by these steps that you are doing not only with the Czech Post. So I would like to conclude by pointing out that we reject the cancellation of the Czech Post offices and the dismissal of their operating employees, and we reject the failure of the Fialův Government and Minister Rakušan to pay both honest employees of the Post and clients. And once again, I would like to stress the need to define the basic services that the state should in any case provide for citizens. It's affordable health care, it's decent social services, it's affordable quality education, but it's also available services, it's public relations, whether it's the Czech POINTs or the like. This means that these are simply services, the basic infrastructure, the services that the state should provide to citizens from their taxes. And here's exactly the clash point where we disagree with the Fialův Government and the Austrian Interior Minister, when you, on the one hand, are throwing money away on things, on the other hand, on unnecessary expenses that do not bring to citizens - and I have already talked about this many times, I will not recycle it again, today I just implied - and on the other hand, you are making it worse for those people whose taxes are all paid for. So our position is clear. Of course, we do not agree with this intention of the Fialův Government, by virtue of the Minister of the Interior of Vít Rakušan, we will, of course, follow it, we will oppose it, the government has a majority here. In any case, we insist that the necessary services be maintained for citizens of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And now we would open a point and please take the floor for the plaintiff Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová, who, if she agrees, will also become a rapporteur. Madam, so as not to forget, do you agree to become a rapporteur at the same time?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u8	Yes, I agree that I will also be both the appellant and the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u9	Thank you. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u10	Madam Vice-President, Dear Members of the Government, Dear colleagues, you know that the YES movement has reported many times, or it has presented that it wants the situation in the Czech Post to be discussed here. It drew attention to the situation, but the coalition MPs never included the point. That's why I'm very glad that after that huge appeal, it finally succeeded today. In my opinion, too, this is linked to the fact that the ANO movement has been able to convene an extraordinary security committee, which has also dealt with the situation in the Czech Post and has also adopted resolutions that have also been supported by government MPs, and I thank them for that. We would like this resolution, because the committee is an advisory body of the Chamber of Deputies, to be confirmed here today and approved on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. I must say, Mr. Vít Rakušan's performance was not convincing me in any way. I can certainly consider his political courage, that is one page, but the other side is that the Minister of the Interior is responsible for the Czech Post. I will repeat myself once again that when the Interior Minister Vít Rakušan came into office, he said how the government was prepared for it and the entire government was prepared for it. At the same time, he replaced the members of the Supervisory Board, which is fifteen. He said what experts are there and that the Czech Post would be perfectly fine. This year - and he knew that from 1 January 2023 data boxes will be required to use legal persons, that it will affect the Czech Post's management, it was also him and his colleague Vice Prime Minister Ivan Bartoš, who also advocated it and voted for it, so they knew it for a long enough time. I think it is absolutely irresponsible to come to a press conference in February, just before an extraordinary meeting at the Czech Post office, and there to announce that the Czech Post is threatened with insolvency. A month later, to come up with the fact that I'm shutting down 300 branches, not telling anyone about it, not communicating with anyone, and then of course, it brings the state that we have here today, and that's absolute chaos, absolute indiscretion. It's not ready at all, no one knows anything, both mayors and employees. [[16.30 hours]] If the Home Secretary here says he's going to save the Czech Post and that the Post Office will be a modern postal institution, I believe that the Czech Post is a public service for our citizens. And if I distance this public service from citizens and they have to travel behind it because the criterion of three kilometres is not respected in many cases, I am convinced that this will in no way be a modern postal institution. And when I saw the current CEO - because the Home Secretary was unable to select a new director in eight months - who practically said that everything was a problem, that the customer should submit to the Czech Post, when the mail would be open, and now we learn: delivery will be every three days. So if this is a modern postal institution, it's not a modern postal institution for me. At the same time, you are talking about the fact that you are preparing a transformation plan and that external experts are preparing it for you. I don't know. There's a lot of money going on, those outsiders. It doesn't seem credible at all. At the same time, you say that the Czech Republic has one of the largest branch networks. But again, you're not telling the truth. Yes, we have 3,200 branches, but 800 of them are Post Partner and they are no longer under the Czech Post in quotation marks. There are no employees of the Czech Post. The Partner mail is operated by a municipality or a business entity, so the factual situation is that we have 2,400 branches at present. Eight hundred is Post Partner. We still haven't figured out what the $8 billion is going to be spent on. You're saying that the transformation plan is one thing - you still don't have it, you're still working on it, you're working on it, you're working on external workers - and closing 300 branches is another. Again, I would like to stress that by closing the 300 branches, the Czech Post will save CZK 700 million. So if I were to translate it, as you managed in 2022 and under your leadership was the historically worst economic result of the Czech Post, I would like to point out that the data boxes have not yet paid, that is only since 1 January 2023, we are talking about the management of 2022, so I will correct Mr Tomio Okamura, it was not a billion and a half, it was a billion 750 million. That's the situation. And 2021 was a loss of 681 million. Mr. Home Secretary, could you tell us what caused this? Please do not say that this was because there was a smaller number of postal transactions, because according to information from the chairman of the trade union of Mr. Dvorský, it had a major impact on the transfer of transport to private hands. All the drivers have been released. So the Czech Post, when it operated traffic, it was riding for CZK 18 a kilometer and now it is riding for CZK 48 a kilometer! And you let that happen? Didn't you stop as Home Secretary? Why didn't your new great supervisory board stop it? Those are my questions I'd like to get an answer from you today. You say branches stay in small villages. Yes, but it disappears from large cities, where there is a huge concentration of people, where many tourists ride! In Prague 3, which has 75 000 inhabitants, but she has a lot more, will six branches be one branch? You haven't shown us the analysis that you've decided to close those branches to date, Minister. And please don't say that the Czech Post decided on this professionally, because if it were based on the loss rate, and you know it very well, it wouldn't be the big branches in the big cities! Why don't you cover up the analysis? It's what the mayors want. Yesterday I received a text from the mayor of Česká Lípa who wanted to know the indicator of loss. She was told it was a sensitive number, that she wouldn't know. Is it even possible for Czech Post to proceed like this? Again, Minister, you are the Minister of the Interior, you have the Czech Post in your opinion, and if you are still talking about the Czech Telecommunications Office, I would just like to tell you that this is the central body of the state administration. He's the regulator, but the government decides how it's gonna be, so the Home Secretary will suggest it. And you came to the government and suggested that you cancel 300 branches of the Czech Post without communicating with the mayors and the mayors! And what's in the territory now? Unbelievable chaos! Do you even realize today is April 19th? That you want to close those branches on July 1st? That it's in two months? So to this day, the mail lady doesn't know anything, people behind the counters don't know anything, most likely start getting statements any minute now. The mayors don't know anything. The branches are changing. I can't imagine what it's going to look like in practice. You still haven't answered our question about the buildings. Will you offer them to the cities? For example, cities fear that hostels will be built there. They're responsible. And what I find to be the worst is that you're called Mayors and Independents, and you really threw those mayors overboard. When you said here today that in 26 cases it's accepted. Minister, for example, in Sokolov you have come up with a proposal that you no longer offer the Post Partner, the Post Partner plus, which is that the city will pay CZK 500,000, pay for virtually everything, the Post Office will pay 50,000 training and so on, and you will call it yesterday to change the conditions. I don't know. Is that right? Isn't that chaotic? Again, do you even realize that we are in April 2023 and that you want to do this from July 1st? In two months? Why didn't you prepare it properly? Why didn't you communicate at first? And why are you using Mariánské Lázně here? This is a complete disaster! Close the Mariánské Lázně branch, which is barrier-free, and say that I will close those branches that have fewer transactions, and the Czech Post will arrive and the mayor will know that the number of postal transactions has been rising over the last few years. Then I don't know how the Czech Post picked it out because you didn't show it to anyone. And so we're going to leave the other branch with 20 steps, maybe 40, and we're going to do that wheelchair thing right now. And it's going to cost CZK 15 million, and it's still a conservation facility. So, I'm asking, is there gonna be that barrier-freeness on July 1st? I mean, it can't even be there, because it takes time to get a consensus from the landlords. One paradox at a time! In the Liberec Region, in Česká Lípa. I have a DEPO there, I have a český mail there, it was done there a few months ago, years ago, it's new, modern, DEPO will stay there, but the Czech mail will be cancelled and the space will be empty. And people will have to travel downtown. [[16.40 hours]] A lot of the mayors say you don't want to let them have the Partner Post. And now, Minister, about your flagship, you're still talking about how you want to help those structurally affected regions. And let's say, in which regions do the most of these branches cancel out? Well, it is in those structurally disabled, where there are the most seniors, where there are the most weak people, people who receive benefits! Let's get this straight, shall we? [[He's showing a map of the Republic.]] I'll make it bigger so everyone can see it. Ustecký kraj, cca 700 000 inhabitants, 27 branches will be cancelled. I don't want to compare it to Central Bohemia, but it's a lot bigger, it cancels 24. Look at the structurally affected regions. Highlands 9 branches, Karlovarský kraj 14 branches. So if you really look at the three most affected regions, not to mention the Moravian-Silesian - 48 branches, well, I compare it to Prague - 35, I ask you that you keep saying it, I keep saying it, that you say something and you do something completely different. So you want to help structurally affected regions, don't you? So please take another look at the map, perhaps with your authorized director of the Czech Post. So if you want to interrupt, Minister, the 300 branches, will you also reduce your supervisory board, which has fifteen members? Will you reduce their fees for performing their duties? Could you tell me how often the Supervisory Board is meeting? Would you mind telling me if the Supervisory Board dealt with this at all? Did the Supervisory Board get an analysis, were they familiar with it? So if she didn't get it, then why do we have a supervisory board? Then disband it! It costs a lot of money, you certainly know how much, and I think that even 15 members is a very, very high number. At the same time, I would like to remind you in the end that when you went to the House of Deputies, you had your great election program in which you wrote that the mayor would always be closer to us as a minister. I say again, it is extremely difficult for the mayors and the mayors, because we are here in the Chamber of Deputies, we perceive it in some way, but many of these citizens will not say that Vít Rakušan did it, but they will blame the mayor and mayor for not saving it for those citizens. I don't get it at all when I'm taking you both at the seminar and at the Security Committee, I'm practically asking you to communicate with the mayors, I'm begging you to be allowed to let the mayors or business entities do it, so you're still going to the government and you're going to cancel 300 branches. I really believe that your actions are wrong. I don't think this should be done in any way. And I would like to conclude by saying that the resolution that I will then propose in a detailed debate concerns, in particular, one particular thing that I would like to agree with you today through the club of the ANO movement, and I would very much like you to do so. Mr. Minister, stop this, postpone the closure of the branches by at least six months, discuss it with the individual mayors and mayors, discuss with them if they want the Post Partner, and then let the branches be closed. I am convinced that, for example, and I will now give an example of Karlovy Vary, where the Czech Post has also been very busy, because it wants to cancel six of the nine branches, and I am convinced that the Mayor will not want to keep all six, but that she may come to wish to run two branches. I don't understand why you don't want to do this. At the same time as the steps taken at the Czech Post, which were referred to by our President here, regarding the purchase of furniture, regarding the purchase of electric wheels for several million crowns, regarding the transport which was transferred to private hands in 2022, I will also propose a resolution for the Supreme Audit Office to come to the Czech Post to come there immediately and check all these steps and all these contracts. At the same time, I would like to say that I am constantly hearing criticism that there has been no compensation from the previous government, and we are now learning that there has also been no compensation in the context of the refugee crisis. [[unintelligible]] I'm asking, why doesn't the current government put it there? ♪ Why that ♪ You can't compensate the post office for everything she's done? So it will be one of the other resolutions that we are going to make here. And I'm really asking you again, do things not chaoticly, do them forward, do them with discretion. And above all, I expect you to answer my questions. I don't want to say that the Local Government Association is your organization, STAN, who agreed to keep you small branches. I am convinced that there should be a Partner Post in those small municipalities, but I think that I can come up with such a solution to cancel mail in large cities, where there is a huge concentration of people, without all communication with mayors and mayors, with a secret analysis, I find it absolutely unacceptable. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u11	I thank you, too, and I ask you to take your seat at the rapporteur's table. I am launching a general debate in which I have several Members with priority rights and the first Minister Síkela. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known about me that I prepare my speeches if I have time, but it is also known about me that most of the time I am inspired by the moment and sometimes I respond to my previous speakers. And I'll do it today. Since President Babiš, through Madam President, has not forgiven in his speech some of the invectives that were not related to the Post Office, I dare say that I appreciate his courage that he has remained here this time and, exceptionally, even after he has delivered his speech and has not left, as he usually does in his custom. Otherwise, I would call his speech less aggressive, but somewhat cowardly, because he actually told us that he had nothing to do with anything that ever happened at the Post Office. He sat in government for years, even presided over one of them for a long time, but he says he couldn't influence anything in one, he ruled, but he wasn't allowed to, and in the other it was too late, because it was over and everything was stolen. Then I'd like to correct one of his gross mistakes. He said there's no one in this room who's in charge of the Post Office. I would like to ask the former Minister of the Interior of Metnar, through Madam President, if there was a time when he was in charge of the Post. I was, thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now, let me introduce you to a few economic data. If you put all the numbers in one pile, it's pretty scary. Over the years 2013 and 2014, only in these years, the state compensated the post office for 800 million crowns. In 2015, the State paid CZK 600 million in compensation. In 2016 and 2017, the compensation was CZK 500 million annually. [[16.50 hours]] The post office has been dropping profit before tax for the tenth year, costs are rising and revenues are falling. Perhaps any proper caregiver will understand the need to do something vital about it. There is a fundamental difference between the Czech Post and private companies, after all, only the number of business places. Based on the resolution of the previous governments, the Czech Post has 3,200 branches. This is one of the coolest networks, or the coolest ever, not just in Europe, but all over the world. Such a decision has no economic justification. Imagine that. Imagine this - 3,200 branches, job maintenance, wage increases, but at the same time a declining number of letters, and thus revenue. The need to invest in this. An equation like that just can't work. Someone has to pay for it, and that someone is a state, a taxpayer. But as a proper caretaker, the state cannot tolerate this state forever. What are these thousands of branches gonna pay for? Of what? Mail lives on credit today. I can't imagine who would be willing to provide further funding. In this situation, it is extremely irresponsible to deceive the public, politicians and, above all, workers with unrealistic promises. And I would like to ask you now, dear opposition, if you agree to this analysis. If you agree that it has no economic justification to operate 3,200 Post offices, it has no economic justification to maintain jobs. Mr Babiš, through Madam President, what do you think of this analysis?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u13	I'm sorry, Minister, we're not here... to answer each other like this. If the Member wishes to answer you, he must join the proper debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u14	Okay. [[He's turning right.]] And, Madame... [[Mrs Mračková Vildumetz is speaking off the microphone.]] No, no, all you have to do is nod. Do you agree with the analysis? [[Mrs. Mračková off the microphone: I haven't seen her.]] You haven't seen her.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u15	Please, first of all, address the Member through my... [[Minister Síkela: Yes, I'm sorry.]] Secondly, we are on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, and I ask that Members report to the debate for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u16	Okay. So I will allow myself to reveal to you the author of this analysis. On his behalf, Mr. Andrej Babiš issued it on his Facebook page in August 2019. [[He's turning to Mr. Vildumetz.]] Your boss, Madam President, your leader, your fellow Members. As early as 2019, the Chairman of the ANO movement questioned why the Post Office should have 3,200 branches, why it should maintain so many workers. He also questioned why compensation for the Post Office should be increased. I'll allow myself to continue to quote. The law is now to be passed that annual compensation can reach up to 1.5 billion, while the Post Office has been declining for the eighth year before tax, costs are rising and revenues are falling. Perhaps any proper caregiver will understand the need to do something vital about it. And what did you do a month later? Do you remember that? What you always do - you have called a press conference and you have solemnly announced that you will simply pay off the 1.5 billion a year and that you have forbidden the head of the Post Office to close any branches and expressed your satisfaction at management plans for the future. What's the reality? 2019 - loss 363 million. 2020 - loss 1.3 billion. 2021 - loss of CZK 681 million. So these were the plans that the Prime Minister at the time was satisfied with. So either the Prime Minister at the time got drunk with a roll, or he just closed his eyes to the fact that the Czech Post is rushing into the wall, poured 1.5 billion a year into it and shifted the problem in time to another government. I will not allow myself to judge which option to lean towards. If it was because President Babiš didn't have the courage to make a really consistent transformation of the Post Office at the time, and he just shifted it to us - sorry like, didn't he? You know what? I would have understood that you were a little bit cowardly back then. Really. Restructuring such a large state enterprise is not at all easy, and since we have all seen what you have done during the covid, I would say that maybe this is a good thing. Okay, but when you back out like that, where do you get that... I almost want to say the audacity to criticize the one who had the guts to deal with the situation? Why are you using this subject that you yourself did not want to address to scare the public again? You were afraid we wouldn't have gas - we do. We were afraid we couldn't handle the refugee crisis - we did. Now you're haunting the Post Office, pensions, public finances. I'm not defending criticism, we're not defending criticism, we're not perfect. No one is, we're not. Constructive criticism is the basis of the work of the opposition in every democratic society. But it's not the constant haunting that's become kind of the foundation of your politics. And you're not really doing anything else. And that's what your tactics support, even though former Chairman Babiš denies it, even the so-called holding media. But what's the worst? That your tactics, when you're scaring the company and using the problems you've left behind, aren't just hypocritical. She's, like I said, kind of cowardly. He leaves permanent scars in the Czech society, whose part still trusts you, he still thinks you're not scaring things just to get political points, but that you really mean it. Yes, part of the public is really scared. They believe in your constant haunting. And instead of coming up with excuses and excuses, if your disaster scenario doesn't work out, you come up with an apology, you come up with excuses, and you pick up on another subject that you continue to use to spread fear. So let me get back to the analysis of Mr. Andrej Babiš's former Prime Minister. He wrote that the old Czech Post was dead. And he was right. bohužel, he did not reply that he or your movement did not have the ambition or the ability to create the new Czech mail. I firmly believe that our movement, our specialists and President Vít Rakušan have this ability. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u17	Thank you. Your performance raised several factual points. Mrs Maříková is the first to sign up. Madam, please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u18	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I must respond not only to Minister Síkela, but also to Minister Rakušan. We've been told here how the pošta Office is in the wrong numbers, in the loss, needs a transformation. Well, I'd expect you to tell us who's responsible here, too. Who are you gonna kick out of this high-level management thing? Minister Rakušan told us here if the Post Office was a private company of any of us. Well, if the Post Office was a private company to any of us, then what are you gonna do? You're gonna throw out that high management that's gonna make your company lose. So far, I've heard from my previous speaker that high management has even been rewarded. So, Minister, tell us, who are you going to fire? Who will bear the responsibility?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u19	Thank you for keeping time. Another point of fact is prepared by Mr Metnar. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u20	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, fellow Members, I am glad that the mention has taken place that, although for a short time, I have worked at the Ministry of the Interior. And just a little bit of history and factography to remind you that it's clearly traceable. So I want to say, when I was appointed Minister of the Interior on 13 December 2017, the pošta Office was one of the priorities when I began to deal with it. Negotiations with the unions, with the leadership of the Post Office, driving around the Post Office branches, and it resulted in the recall of the then director Elkán on 22 February. [[17,00 hours]] And what led me to do that? The post office then, and I think it persists, this problem, further, lacked a meaningful vision of functioning that could be developed. I was convinced that the Ministry of the Interior had to speed up the Post Office Partner projects when they were on the slip. It must modernize sorting nodes, package centres, improve IT infrastructure and focus more on the portfolio of services that provided it with funds. Just to remind you, in December, when we joined, 2017 and compared to 2018, the number increased, doubled, from 189 to 428 branches of Post Office Partner, or partner mail, and at that time accounted for 13 percent of this branch network from the entire Post Office branches. I mean, at the moment, in so many years, and what you've done in a year and a half, we have some 819 today. But to get back to the time I worked there. In February, Elkán was called off. [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]] In March a tender was launched, a new director was appointed in April. [[President: Mr. Ambassador, time, I'm sorry.]] And in May he got the assignments he was supposed to submit in October, but we weren't supposed to be there anymore and we were just supposed to be shining.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u21	So please keep up the time. The next enrollment is Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u22	Thank you for the floor. I must definitely respond to Mr Síkela's Minister of Industry and Trade, who was talking about some kind of analysis. Mr. Secretary, we're talking about shutting down 300 branches right now. And no one saw the analysis of the interference. You saw her? I don't. Nobody. None of the mayors saw her. Then show it to us. Show us the economy of the closed branches, why they're closing. How bad are they economically? Yes? And I want to tell you one thing, when you're constantly picking on our Prime Minister here, you're gonna have to call him that: if Andrej Babiš had done the same thing as Vít Rakušan, I'd have screamed the same way! [[Strongly.]] Because Vít Rakušan's procedure is absolutely chaotic and incompetent! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u23	I also thank you for keeping time. And another with the application is Mr. Mašek. Ambassador, your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u24	Madam President, honourable ministers, colleagues, colleagues, I also have to respond to what has just happened. What happened was that 300 mails were really cut in half. When we asked for an analysis, we did not receive one, although it is in the resolution of the Security Committee. We'll see how the House stands up for it, I hope. But the analysis is clearly on the dirty feet. The Minister has admitted to us here that the Post Office Transformation Commission will work intensively. But that means there's really no analysis until now. That's the secret we can't find out. I would like to say that in 2018 the SAO was already saving the situation at the Post Office and evaluated it as very unsatisfactory and at the same time evaluated the work of the Ministry of the Interior as the founder, who was absent from his duties, and by the way, for about three years there between 2015 and 2017, they were not even in control. So things happened at the Post Office. However, the Post Partner project was prepared, at the end of 2021 I believe there were 819 such Post Partner, centres or establishments. The point of the game was that it should be significantly cheaper. Of course, it is necessary for the pošta Office to prepare this and to be able to evaluate it. And even the plan was until 2025. Actually, the minister took over, too. And in 2025, the number of post posts was to change completely, it should be 2,537 Post Partner, which meant that there should be about 400 new Post Partner every month. And that is what the Minister was supposed to discuss very hard since January last year. Talk about it with the mayors, with the mayors, and figure out what the point is. But a blunt cut of 300 at once without a replacement is just wrong. So, Minister, it needs to be changed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u25	Thank you for keeping time. The next is Mrs Adámková, and Mr Fiala Radim, Mr Koten and then Mr Babiš will be prepared. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u26	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Let me say a few words about the Margo performance of the Minister of Industry. Minister - I do not have to do this here through Madam President - this is not a cabaret. This is a serious meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, where part of the Members has an opinion, part of them has a different opinion, and that is quite all right. And that's why we're talking about it. They've all been elected. And the YES movement, whether you like it or not, is the strongest political party in this country. So please keep the cabaret performance. I would therefore follow up with President Michálek. Not quite often I agree with him, but I must say he was right here when he said in the morning to preserve the dignity of the performance. So please, your opinion is of course your opinion, no one's taking it away from you, but you're here as minister of this country, and I don't want him to be a cabaret artist! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u27	Thank you for keeping me. Another with a point of fact is Mr Radim Fiala. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u28	Thank you for the floor. I also want to respond to the whole issue here that we heard from my previous speaker that it was a blunt cut. And I agree with that, and I will explain why I think it was a blunt cut. Because the Home Office didn't deal with the municipalities at all. They've gotten lost. I think it evaluated and made the worst possible solution, which means canceling the branches. But the problem is that they didn't discuss it with citizens, with municipalities, with no one, and they decided from the office to cut the blunt cut, I agree with you, 300 branches. I consider it a communication failure of the Ministry of the Interior, a communication failure between the Ministry and citizens, the Ministry and the municipalities, between the Ministry and the opposition, between the Ministry and everyone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u29	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Mr Koten. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u30	Thank you for the floor. I would also like to respond here to my previous speakers, because many things have been said here. However, what we learned from the trade union representative... or the trade union organizations that are in the Czech Post are more than one. And the representative of the union here quite well described the situation for which the Czech Post is falling into red numbers. I really have to agree with Radim Fiala here, who said that the cuts were blunt cuts, because closing the branches of the Czech Post in those places where there is the greatest burden of people, I think it really is not good, because it will reduce availability and prolong waiting times for the Czech Post clients and, on the contrary, it may discourage them from ordering packages or other services right through the Czech Post, so it can have the exact opposite result, here are the blunt cuts. And I'd like to mention the sale of the real estate here. Of course, selling real estate through real estate can be a lot of trouble with the need for mail to be sold to a pre-selected buyer. But I would also point out here an article that came out on the List, that is, that the big cities will be established in some way by Ukrainian mail. If it had anything to do with the Czech Post and the cancellation of their branches to clear the space for competing mail from abroad, I would really like to know if there is such a connection here, because I trust the News List. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u31	Thank you, too. And another with a point of fact is President Babiš's entry. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u32	So, Minister Rakušan, it looked nice today. I've been very constructive. The minister, or the sixth coalition party, insults me here. This Pokorný puppet. Did Evička Hanáková write the project for you or who? [[He's turning to Minister Síkela.]] You stepped out of line. You don't even have the numbers right. Look for Chapter 328 - Czech Telecommunications Office, net costs representing an unfair burden on the holder of the postal license. That's Treasury material. [[He's showing the chart.]] You got off here just to insult me, you're talking to the leader. Keep it. I'm loaded. [[17.10 hours]] You got fired from Slovakia. I'm not gonna talk about what was in there. Well, I hope they finally send you to Brussels to see the Commissioner, and you can harm them there. You're not gonna mess with me! I've been very constructive here, and you've just been lying here. I have numbers! What kind of analysis? Neither number fits you, so please keep it. Holding press? Here's the holding press. Mr. Rakušan here has a nice comment today. I don't know, what was that all about? That's how things were going, I was talking about Belgium and the Netherlands. And if you want to fight here, I'm ready, there's no problem. Sixth coalition party. Pokorný the loutka. Evička Hanáková is writing him some nonsense. And here's some bullshit
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u33	Thank you for keeping time. And since I'm no longer registering anyone with a factual remark, we'll proceed to further applications with priority rights. Mr. Vice-President Havlíček is next. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u34	Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Members and honourable Members of the Government, I will not go too far in the past, only to the one within which our government worked, although we all know very well that the Czech Post was under the administration of social democracy. But I don't think there's any discussion here about the need to make changes, Mr. Home Secretary. And I think we all know very well what the reasons are. Liberalization gradual. In 2025, it's gonna break even more. You all know what I'm talking about, because until then, everything has to be competitive. It's growing competition, very strong competition because of the liberalization. It's digitizing. These are all absolutely fundamental things, which, of course, make the results of the Czech Post worse. The whole discussion is whether you want to do it or not. You guys are going back a lot in the past, but I haven't heard anything fundamental about how you're going to take it, and what the next steps are going to be to get rid of the crazy chaos that's going on right now. Because it's not true that the past government, since you've already gotten into it, and now I mean that, in particular, the Minister of Industry, has been merely looking into it. And I'm not saying that as the person responsible. Social democracy was really responsible for this. But let's see what happened here. She started the transformation, which is certain to be done, in 2018. And these are the answers to what the Minister of Industry said. It was then prepared - and the Supervisory Board approved it - a strategy for three years, including 2021. And by then the company should have divided into separate business units, state services, commercial, logistics, financial services and everything related to it. The project lasted about two years, including the preparation of a new organizational structure, transfer prices were introduced and so on. Separate accounting circuits have been set up. Well, logically, because it was clear that something had to be done, so then management, which was already under Mr Knap's headquarters, began to make a relatively substantial reduction in costs. And here's a very important thing to say. At that time, the government agreed to raise the limit to those so-called universal services from half a billion, that's what we're saying here, the numbers, to 1.5 billion. But for that to happen, the real cost of the universal service had to be withdrawn. Which was done between 2019 and 2020, it was done that it withdrew from 2.7 billion to about 1.8 billion, or almost a billion. That's a pretty substantial amount. At that point, the only thing that could have been done, and here I am saying that part of it went through the CTU, that he applied for notification so that the 1.5 billion could be cashed in. We all know that. That was an incredible process. Martyrium awful. Somewhere from 2019 until 2022. But thank God that time and with the contribution of the Czech Telecommunications Authority it was done and under your government you could already use the fact that it was notified and could go on with the 6 billion crowns, or even the 750 million more in that six-month period. Which is quite clearly in... it was under the control of the previous government. But I don't blame you, just like you did, it's okay. I mean, they didn't cash in, you could have cashed it in, to be more precise. At that point, however, the branch network was optimized. You need to know, the management must have told you. Opening hours were shortened, adjustments were made in the sense of opening times, the whole logistics was optimized. That's when the delivery was introduced, if you remember, D+2 of the economic shipments. Now you've extended it or increased it to D+3, which I think is too much. And you're recording competition, but that's different. But it's important. In 2018, the Post Office had 30,000 employees. After four years of our government, it was less than 25,000 employees, almost 20 percent down, 24 and something. All I'm saying is that it all led to the fact that the economic result of the negative minus 1.4 billion in 2020 withdrew in 2021 to not say ideal, but thank God for that, for half of it, that's some 680 million crowns. Key thing: It is the end of 2021 and the management is preparing, I call it, the second stage of the restructuring and this is the transformation of the Czech Post. It is submitted to the Supervisory Board of the Strategy and this includes, among other things, the transformation. That's very important to say. At that time, the Supervisory Board approved this and forwarded it to the Founder, the Ministry of the Interior. It involved a whole series of things, I don't know, the separation of the very state and commercial services, the optimization of the branch network and so on. I believe you know all that. I'm just quoting Czech Radio 25. 9. 2021, a few days after the elections, or at the time of the elections, it doesn't matter: Czech Post invents how to prevent economic collapse. She therefore created a detailed plan to break up the state enterprise. The intention is now on the table of the Ministry of Interior, under which the state enterprise falls and which must sanctify the transformation. That was the end of the year or the fall of 2021. And we're about to get to what actually happened in 2022. But all I'm saying is that this is the end of our government. Some steps have been taken, something has been restructured, a transformation plan has been prepared, and it has been passed on to you as your government. I can't forgive one more thing here that may not have anything to do with it at first sight, but in part it is, and that is the parallel of the Czech Railways. I dare say that there are two companies, Czech Post and Czech Railways, which solve perhaps very similar problems. First of all, they're huge businesses, they're doing a service for our residents, for our businesses, and so on. And for another, very complex, gentlemen, ministers, you know very well that they are entering into this. In other words, we can't put any money in there because it would be illegal support. I believe that the situation in the Czech Railways in 2021 was significantly worse, significantly worse than it was in the Czech Post. Why? Because back then, due to the covid, performances fell to one fifth. You can imagine the company České dráhy, which has some revenue, and suddenly it makes you 20 percent of its revenue. And you can't put money in there. And when you do, you have to let go of the other competitors logically, which has been done to some really small degree. That was basically spit into the sea. In other words, it had to be restructured. At that time, the restructuring or the measures succeeded because of one thing, and that is what you lack, Minister, and that is that we responded immediately at that time. It immediately meant that we switched directors. It's not like we fired him completely, he went to be number two. We had a qualified restructuring manager there, who immediately started to work, and within a few months we managed to stabilize České dráhy so that we survived the critical period with five-year returns, two-year period, without the Czech Railways bowing too much. I don't know if you've noticed there's been talk of the Czech Railways in the last two or three years. Of course something always resonates, but I mean, it wasn't a fatal mess. I mean, it was a problem, but he managed to solve it. The main engine for us was that we couldn't reduce the comfort, it wasn't even possible. In a way, it might be possible, but I can't imagine what would happen if I stopped ordering or if I stopped ordering trains. That would be unrealistic. So what I'm saying is, everything can be handled when there's good people in there when it's fast. And that's what I blame you most. Not at all, Minister, it's not your fault, that's quite clear. We can really talk about what's been here decades before. [[17.20 hours]] But it bothers me how you stood up to it in 2022. I'm not saying someone gave it to you in a pink ribbon box. Again, it was under the CSSD, but you got it. Why didn't you start dealing with this in 2022? Why didn't you immediately take this as one of the priorities? And you could say what you're saying today, Mr. Havlíček, there were some 18 pages, look at it, I didn't like it very much. So be it. Then you should've changed it. You should've pushed that management into doing something if you didn't like it the way it was submitted. The problem was that you were dealing with dozens of other things in 2022, and I'm saying you didn't get your priorities right. That's right. I don't want to be mean right now to say what you've been up to to show all those dozimetr and so on, even though, of course, the resort was connected to the appeal of the company director. But I don't even blame you, Minister, for ending up with the CEO, even though I think he was a man who knew how to do it. But you have every right. You have the right to call off a man and put in - and that's important and I blame you - someone better. If I said the Czech Railways and called off the director, I had a man on my back, whom I had discussed in advance, and within one day a restructuring manager got in and he started driving the Czech Railways. And I assume that when you got rid of the CEO at a time of crisis for a reason that we can discuss whether he was right or wrong, but you have the right to do so, you should have had someone there to run it immediately. You didn't have him, so you put out a tender, and nine months later, you came to the conclusion that there was no such person. Well, no wonder there's no such thing. Between you and me, who would rush into the Czech Post today? But you still had the opportunity to pick the original one, you didn't pick it for any reason, I'm not interfering. But in any case, we're in a situation today that the Post Office doesn't have any money, the Post Office is almost in insolvency mode, the Post Office doesn't have a director, and if, then, you've quickly put a man in the original leadership, and I'm not sure he's the person who's able to handle the restructuring. So I think it's the biggest mistake that you've lost that year and a half, or maybe a year and four or five months. So we're in a situation where today's hectic transformation starts, of course everything is done under enormous pressure, blasts 300 branches, I don't know why not 305 or 297, but you just rounded it to 300. And by not being prepared for it, by sewing it with a hot needle, of course, there's a huge confusion, a huge resistance. You're starting to admit certain changes, which I think is the worst, because it starts with a huge lobbying of all those who, of course, want to preserve the branches, and I don't know how you're dealing with it right now. But what's the worst part about it is that the way it's done under pressure, and the fact that you lost that year and quarter, year and a half, there's no respect for any of the elementary parameters that the former management had as such set up. If you look at it, you must know that it was clearly written or prepared that it had to be communicated with municipalities and cities. I mean, your mayors are sitting here. You know it's a mess, that they haven't been dealt with. Let's not kid ourselves that it's okay. Why? Well, because it's leaking into your shoes, and that's all there is to it. So what you're doing is you just fired it, and then you say, maybe we'll discuss some other branches. I can't imagine how this is going to go down. But it was to be discussed throughout the year 2022, if something was to be reduced somewhere, what would replace it. Packages, pick-up points, or Czech POINTs put on special partitions so there are simply not too many people, calling systems in those existing branches, naturally solve the Post Office Partner, because I don't think you did quite right that you say definitely no pošta Office partner. It can be dealt with both businessmen and municipalities. And it might be done at other costs, but you don't have much time for that now. So unfortunately, we see the result at this point. You don't even have a plan, you don't have an analysis. You may have some kind of analysis, I don't doubt that, as the Minister of Industry said here, but since you're constantly changing things there, there's probably no glory, the analysis, there wasn't. I don't understand why you don't want to show her. You think this competition is gonna sit on its ass? I don't think so. At least it would be a little transparent. I don't see any visions and people - I don't know who's gonna be there tonight. So the only certainty you have today, I agree with you that if you don't do anything, the Post Office will go to hell, but unfortunately it will go, among other reasons, because you lost that year and a quarter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u35	Thank you, too. Your performance brought up two factual points. First Minister Síkela and Minister Rakušan will prepare himself. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u36	Madam President, my colleague, my fellow Members, I am sorry, I may have made some procedural mistake, my factual point is to make a previous speech. I didn't sign up. I'm just in the reaction to the data from the analysis that I supposedly quoted. To be clear, in the first part of my speech, I literally presented Mr. Andrej Babiš's original post on his Facebook page from August 2019. And as for the other figures, that means the loss for 2019, 2020, 2021, as the Czech Post reported it, of course, the data was being pulled out by my team, but I'm not ruling out the possibility of rounding errors, but I'm sure the numbers will be in order. If this is about the charge of insulting me, I've done that speech in my head one more time, I'll look at it one more time. Yes, I used two words that might appear... I used the word hypocritical and I used the word cowardly. I, as I said in the beginning, also responded in the form as I did in the performance of my previous speakers. And sometimes we can go through some of these shows together and think about who's insulting who. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u37	I also thank you for keeping time. Another one with a point of fact, Minister Rakušan. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u38	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I hate to, but I have to, because it looks like there's a request for my response, and priority rights are a long time to be expected. So I apologize to all those who have entered the debate, but I have also discussed this with your representatives. Well, even with President Babiš - he said here the sentences: I was in charge of the government, it was not in my jurisdiction, I could not interfere. I'm glad that our government doesn't do this, that we have synergies, that the Prime Minister can also ask the Minister from another coalition party and consult with him about the matter and, of course, influence the processes that are taking place. I'm glad the whole government stood up for the whole process. We don't have it in our country that individual coalition parties attack each other. It's a government project. I thank President Babiš for his examples from abroad. We know about them and in many cases we want to follow them. Next thing you know, this firm -- and I'm also responding to it -- it's not always gonna make a profit. And that's not the point. The aim is not to maximize profits, but to provide sustainability and services that are sustainable financially, but also factually, but not primarily profitable. I don't think that's gonna work out, and certainly not at the first stage. And for another, here I see a contradiction in the individual members of the ANO movement. President Babiš calls me to auction, there is no other way, maximize profits. Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová says: offer the cities and municipalities primarily. This is, of course, a big difference in the approach that two Members of the same movement offer here. I'd like to make a recommendation, but I understand that these are personal opinions. Next, for Mrs. Mračková Vildumetzová, I have ten seconds. Listing services twice three times a week, yes, I said so, but not packages. Listing services, which, of course, the other mails, such as Danish mail, deliver only twice a week.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u39	Thank you for keeping time. Another point of fact is made by Mr Mašek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u40	Minister, I'm taking the liberty of responding to you. You just said it wasn't your decision, but it was the government's decision. That makes it worse. Really, it's even worse, because the cut that you didn't justify to anyone, 300 mails down, which you refused to talk about not only with the opposition, but also with the mayors, by even saying that you didn't trust the mayors, which is an interesting statement, because they make up most of your members of STAN, so within that, you actually denied that there was some kind of analysis. [[17.30 hours]] We asked you to do it. You under the cover of the protection of the interests of the Czech Post, the state enterprise, with some know-how going wrong, that could really be very dangerous for other companies, so at this point you decided somehow 300 down. In fact, now I realized that you didn't consult the government at all, but you all believe in each other. Yes, because you have to trust yourself. You're actually in that government, you're all in that five-wheel drive, you're kind of stuck under your neck, and you have to say everything, because you're very fragile, you have different opinions in that government, but you have to stick together in the end. It is only a question of how the Czech Republic will last the two and a half years.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u41	Thank you for keeping time. Another point of fact is registered by Mrs Adámková, and Minister Rakušan will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u42	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Allow me only a short gloss for the performance of Minister Rakušan. It evoke one question to me. I have no doubt that the government is fully prepared for all our questions, and the answers are wonderful. I must appreciate this, because we are gathered to learn some news, and I must say that government members are very distracted. It reminds me when you break a window and say it's a classmate who broke a window two days ago. So that's exactly what it is. I appreciate it as a smile because it's obvious that men don't age and that they still do. But my question is quite clear. You guys are talking about thousands of people who are going to have to leave the place, and I haven't seen -- I guess it is, I just haven't seen it -- how calculated you have an impact on social affairs. Are these people going to the employment office, or are you going to offer them a job? I must point out that it is fatal in some regions. I certainly hope you've got it figured out, because otherwise it would be a big gamble not only with those people, but with the state budget so devastated by you. I think that as responsible people, and I want to believe that our government is responsible, you have this calculated. So please, what's the impact on social affairs, how many people are going to the employment office, how many people are you going to offer somewhere else, what would that be? Because we haven't heard that one before, and that's very important to these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u43	Thank you, too. Now with the application by Minister Rakušan, Minister Jurečka will prepare himself. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u44	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Everyone who's logged in is already looking at me badly, but there's a lot of questions. I will go back to one of the originals, which concerned the economic numbers, when President Babiš asked me how the loss arose. Just a brief explanation. From 2018 loss in sales 40 percent down. This means a decline in the services provided by post, letter services and others by 40 percent. For the other fixed costs remained, the number of branches remained, energy costs increased, costs increased for all expenditure associated with the operation of the Czech Post. Of course, for another, there is also what concerns universal service and its non-compensation and the need to borrow from commercial institutions. That's all that's generated the loss since 2018, and it's pretty clear. As far as employees are concerned, 10 per cent of employees will be transferred to the same job. I mean, within those closed branches. 20 percent of employees will be transferred to another place within the Czech Post. However, they must logically give their personal consent to this. Employees who lose their jobs will be offered, for example, for the employment office, for civic positions, for the Police of the Czech Republic, Blue Pyramids, C.S.Cargo and so on. So, of course, they're counted on, they're preparing to requalify. The final number for the structure of live sites should be 950 employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u45	I also thank you for keeping time. Next with the application is Minister Jurečka. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u46	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, colleagues, I have applied out of order to speak for a long time, but since there are many factual ones here, I want to respond specifically to what has been said here in several speeches by my previous speakers. I'll start with what's directly relevant to our resort. Please, nicely, it haunts here that this layoffs will have some major impact on unemployment and that these people would have trouble finding a job on the Czech labour market is out of the question. The demand for these workers is here. We have even started direct negotiations between the Post Office and, for example, the labour authorities, where we have long been asking for these people. So we really want these people, and besides, when we realize that the possible layoffs are going to be mostly about people at those city post offices, it's logical if we look at the structure of unemployment, that there's really no problem finding a job there today. Today, we are again asking for more jobs than the unemployed. So this haunting, I really don't think it's appropriate. Whoever wants to work really and healthy today has that chance. We have the lowest unemployment rate in Europe, so please don't operate here. It's not entirely fair. I would like to make a very brief remark in the sense that we are here to walk and accuse Vítek Rakušan, his resort and our government that we have slept with the Czech Post, so let us be fair and let us say that governments have been sleeping here for at least the last ten years. For at least ten years, it was known that the market would be dramatically transformed, competition was coming, and we can see it on those numbers. Czech Post failed for the first time until the loss in 2018. Since then, even the previous government has been in loss. So the proposal - not the proposal, but the actual implementation of the restructuring of the Czech Post was supposed to occur here some five, eight, ten years ago. Every government that didn't do it was put off, signed under what's going on today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u47	Thank you. Another point of fact is registered by Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u48	Thank you for the floor. To Marian Jurečka. He's been in the government with us for four years, too, so he's probably putting it off, too. I'd like to say, Minister, you vědět, Rakušan, about -- I hope you know what's going on with the auctions. If the Czech Post makes an auction and shows interest in the city, the municipality should preferably get the object. Now it was done by the capital city of Prague, or yesterday it was announced about the building in Jindřišská. Otherwise, when you met - and I can see how the mayor of the capital city of Prague listens very carefully here, because it also affects Prague very much. The fact that you guys met was very nice, but in my opinion, you haven't moved anywhere and you haven't solved anything. The meeting was nice, because the number of broken branches remains. I think it's in a huge way that's touching Prague, and I'm amazed that the mayor and the other mayors from the city are screaming a lot. [[Doesn't he?]] First of all, I would like to say to everyone that we are criticizing the process of how you do this, Mr. Minister, by not communicating, by not discussing it first. First, the discussion was to be carried out, the analysis was to be submitted, and then the next step was to be taken. That's why I'm surprised you're resisting moving that deadline. Personally, I don't think it would have ruined the budget. About the unemployment on Marian Jurečka. You know, unemployment, or those people being released. It's awful when a delivery woman delivered her mail properly for 20, 30 years, she knows every house, every mailbox. You think if it's delivered in another way, it'll be done properly? I set this out in the example of the city of Aš, where all the delivery women were released and there was no proper delivery of mail. So don't say that the quality of postal services will improve. They'll get worse, and very bad! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u49	I also thank you for keeping time. Another point of fact is registered by Minister Jurečka. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u50	Mrs Vildumetzová' argument is strange for me. We all see how dramatically the extent of what is being distributed to the mailboxes has fallen from the point of view of mail delivery. We see the onset of the commercial sector here, then the dispensaries, the bales and the like. That's just the trend that's here. And if this trend is here, then it's important to admit that just so many people in the field can't stay here long-term because they won't have a real job, we won't be able to finance it. And here we heard several times, my colleague Metnar said, we approved some kind of analysis, we approved some sort of plan here. But unfortunately, there has never been any concrete action in the past in the context of those plans. And here we need to define clearly, and now we're working across the resorts on it, that it's not really an internal task. Here they must tell MPSV, other resorts, which services in the future, for example, from the state after the Czech Post, we will want within what the law provides and allows us to do. And we need to define it. Which we won't need anymore. What we see in the future, such as digitalization, electronization and so on. And that just didn't happen here. It's happening now. And walk around and say, we had a majority in government for four years, we had a prime minister, but he didn't have the chance, because... Well, that's just like making excuses, I don't know what for. And now to say - and now the Home Secretary... Now the Home Secretary is trying, this government is trying and we are looking for a rational path that will not be easy. And of course, when you're doing some restructuring steps, it's usually related to things that aren't completely simple or popular, especially for a company that's already been in such a loss for six years. I would like the discussion to be rational, everyone, and representatives of today's opposition to be aware. that they share the guilt of the state in which it is. If this debate started with this and we decided rationally, let's tell ourselves what we might want from the Czech Post in the future, demand, this debate would make sense to me. [[Time, Minister.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u51	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Mr Mašek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u52	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister Jurečka, I would like to commend you. And I agree with you that governments have actually caused this since 2010 and that nothing has happened. I'll take it all. I merely point out that the last government actually handed over and the Supervisory Board had the concept of Post Partner. The Post Office Partner with the assumption that the partners will do it significantly cheaper, and even your project now Post Office Partner Plus rotates it completely the other way around, that almost the municipalities will still pay for it, that they can have mail there, which I would consider almost as an absurd solution, but also possible. So I just want to say that there was something prepared here. The fact that you didn't use it, and Minister Rakušan, for example, was brought to the attention of the trade unionists before he sat in the hot seat of the Home Secretary, all things around the Post Office, is also true. But now to pretend that Minister Rakušan had arrived: and I was the first one who had the courage to do it, then it began to be said that we were the first ones who had the courage to start dealing with something like this at all... But you know what? To deal with this absolutely without preparation, without discussion, now that you're actually admitting that you're going to discuss it interdepartmentally, well, either you're kidding or you're misjudged. Excuse me, Minister. But now to start discussing what this is going to mean in an interdepartmental way? 300 down means 300 branches disappear. By the way, it's the ones on the largest housing estates that may be two, now it's going to be one or three of one, but it was the most prosperous. And let me just remind you that the Post Office has a turnover of about 22 billion, and you want to save about 700 million. But you won't spare them because there were the biggest sales. And people from those housing estates will turn to someone else, not go to the post office. It's sad, it's unprepared. And I'd like to ask you to actually reconsider and deal with the mayors. There's still a way to save it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u53	Time, Mr. Ambassador. Thank you. I don't see anyone else with a point of fact. We will continue with the application with priority rights, and President Radim Fiala is next. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u54	Thank you for the floor. Since we're running out of time, I'm gonna cut my speech short, because as far as the general part about the cancellation of branches is concerned, it's not right, we've been talking about this for a long time. I don't think there's a need to repeat that. I don't think the Home Office has chosen the right solution. And because, as I was saying, I consider it a blunt cut - a blunt cut without communicating with cities and municipalities, without communicating with the public - let's see what the public has to say about this. Because you heard the opposition here today, Minister, clearly. And now I'm going to read you a few references to what the public has to say. And now a few concrete, quite specific facts to prove that the process of abolishing 300 branches of the Czech Post is one big fiasco that the really responsible government should never approve, and certainly not in some kind of experiment-mistake regime. We're just gonna try something, and if we find out this isn't gonna work out, we're gonna keep talking about it. Ostrava-South: In the territory where over 100,000 people live, there will now be only two branches left, which will represent the worst availability of this service throughout the Republic. In other cities with a comparable population, for example in České Budějovice, which is nothing from me to the South Bohemia, just pointing to the senselessness of this project, six to seven branches are to remain. The town hall therefore sent a protest letter to the Minister of the Interior to Rakušan and representatives of the CEO of Česká pošta Štěpán. Asks for a re-evaluation of plans and maintenance of branches in Ostrava-South. About a third of the population of Ostrava-South are seniors who simply cannot do without mail. Protest letters have already been sent to the Minister by the Mayor of Ostrava and the Governor of the Moravian-Silesian Region. Protest letters also draw attention to the upcoming cancellation of the branch in Horní Street in Hrabůvka, where the town hall recently renovated this building for the needs of the Czech Post. So the object after the reconstruction is canceled. That's interesting. That's what we saw and heard in the '90s. The Union of Towns and Municipalities also disagrees with the Government's process of transforming Czech Post. Refuses the selection of 300 broken postal branches to be preceded by negotiations with representatives of cities and municipalities. The Union does not like the fact that the selection of cancellation branches should be preceded by negotiations with representatives of cities and municipalities. "We fundamentally disagree with this practice," said the Vice-President of the Union and Mayor of Olomouc Miroslav Žbánek. According to him, the government doesn't communicate well enough. That's what I've compared here to the great communication failure of the Ministry of the Interior and this government. "We learn from the media such essential information as the cancellation of postal offices," said the Vice-President of the Union and the Mayor of Olomouc. In 100,000 Liberec, Czech Post plans to cancel six of the 14 branches. Mayor Liberec Jaroslav Zámečník, who is from the Mayor's side for the Liberec Region, a partner of the government's STAN, disagrees with the cancellation of branches. The locksmith does not like the fact that half of it is from Liberec, plus only eight of them would still work in the fifth largest city in the country. "That doesn't strike me as a hundred thousand-dollar city. In addition, this will also increase the transport load. We'll go against it. We do not know if our resistance can do anything, but we must express dissatisfaction," says Mayor Liberec. The mayor of the town of Neštěmice Yveta Tomková disagrees with the changes. "From the side of the Czech Post it is a terrible deal. They did not communicate with the government at all, and without taking account of the population, they canceled the branch from the table. After the cancellation of the post office in Neštěmice, where 10,000 people live, one stays in the district in the Beautiful March. There are 15,000 other people living here. One single post cannot handle the strain of people, there are already queues forming," says Tomková. Mayor Neštěmice wants to defend the pošta Office's decision. "We will open negotiations with the Czech Post and we will try to preserve the branch," Mayor Tomková is determined. Only one of the three existing branches will be opened in Louny as of July. According to Mayor Milan Rychtařík, the City Council will deal with the abolition of two mail offices. "Now both branches are being used and I can't imagine the seniors going from one end of town to another. We disagree with the interference," says Mayor Milan Rychtařík of Loun. [[17.50 hours]] The residents of six cities will pay for the solution of branches in the Pardubice Region. Six branches remain in Pardubice since July, the other seven end. The people in Ústí nad Orlicí, Chrudimi and Svitavy will remain the only branch after this purge. The Czech Post step bothers local politicians mainly because they are not well prepared and communicated. If people had a well-equipped spacious mail with a large parking lot, ideally at the public transport stop, they would probably cope with the reduction of the network. At least the reality in the Pardubice Region is different, exactly the opposite. "The city section of Brno-Medium loses six of the eight branches of the Czech Post. The other two will then move to other places," Kateřina Dobešová said. According to her, the availability of services will deteriorate significantly and citizens will go to the post office across half the city. The mayor of the town of Brno-Líšeň Břetislav Štefan does not agree with this decision. "I've been mayor for 12 years, and the mail was supposed to be canceled five times in that time. There's never been any communication with us. We learned about it from an article on the Internet. We don't know what to do when Mr. Rakušan decided to cancel." The mayor of Znojma Ivana Solařová also considers the interruption to be unfortunate because all five disturbed branches are located in a specific locality with a high concentration of people, including many seniors. "I cannot imagine that not only will the availability of postal services to these people make the government worse. In the case of seniors, we often make it impossible for them to visit the post office at all, in a better case only with difficulty," he says, saying that the redundancies of many long-term employees will significantly affect the entire family and will be difficult to find adequate employment in the region. And so I could continue over all the remaining Czech regions. Reality is the same everywhere. Everywhere mayors and mayors, across the political spectrum, protest. Unisono says that no one in the management of the state enterprise or the Ministry of the Interior has ever acted with them on the plan to cancel the mail offices, that tens of thousands of people from large urban agglomerations, mainly seniors, prevail among the cancelled branches, and that the impact of this measure will be devastating. To sum it up. Czech Post must continue to provide public service to citizens in the fields of filing and delivery of letters, payment of pensions of part of seniors, service of Czech POINT, verification of signatures, issuing extracts from the criminal record and so on, and so on. With these services, they must be physically present and available throughout the territory of the Republic according to the current decree, even in the sense that they should prosecute clients quickly, without endless queues, which we have witnessed before the cancellation of 300 branches, do not say after them, so that we do not have to take a full day's leave in order to submit the recommended letter. At the same time, Czech Post has a huge commercial and commercial potential, which enables quality management not to be loss-making, on the contrary, there is a clear trend in the growth of demand for parcel delivery and international shipments, but also after other logistics services such as transport, distribution and storage. We see how private companies operate in this field year after year and more and more prosper. They're billion-dollar companies. And the Czech Post can compete boldly with them. He's got all the infrastructure, know-how, conditions and staff. It just wants it on the part of its leadership and mainly from the management of the Ministry of the Interior and Government, which have final responsibility for the Czech Post, clear strategy and hard day-to-day work and control. It is their duty and the public rightly expects them to do so. On the contrary, what he does not expect and is not curious about are government excuses on previous governments, on the dislike of market circumstances and fate, incompetence and power arrogance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u55	Thank you, and another with priority rights is Vice-President Kovářová. Madam Vice-President, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u56	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the subject of this extraordinary meeting is the Czech Post. This is certainly an important, undoubtedly important topic and deserves our attention. But whose attention does he deserve first? Definitely voters. Voters, taxpayers, are those who will eventually pay for the problem of the Czech Post. That is why it is absolutely necessary to tell taxpayers the whole truth about the Czech Post. The truth is simple and it is: The problem of the Czech Post did not arise last year or this year. The problem had long arisen, it arose in the past government, it arose in the pre-past government, and it arose in the pre-past government. He was even gradually born under the reigns of the former. This is true despite the indisputable fact that the český Post was still in profit during the pre-existing government. Yes, she was profitable, but she was already desperately behind development. Therefore, the first thing that politicians in this country should do is deeply and humbly apologize to citizens. All those politicians who have participated in the government over the last many years should do so. They should stand here at the speaker's desk and say fair and square: Dear taxpayers, we apologize for our guilt to pay for the accumulated billion-dollar losses of the Czech Post. They should apologize especially to those citizens and also to the mayors and members of the councils everywhere where the Czech Post offices must now be cancelled for economic reasons. Let us ask ourselves, how would savings and slimming take place if the Czech Post had already undergone transformation and modernization?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u57	Madam Vice-President, I'm sorry. Colleagues, colleagues, please lower your voice in the hall! Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u58	Thank you. So let me say again: let's ask ourselves, how would savings and slimming take place if the Czech Post had already undergone transformation and modernization? This is the second simple truth about the Czech Post. They would run gradually. They would be done by replacing the postal authorities with alternative means of providing services to citizens. And that didn't happen. No one pushed for that. That is why we are in a situation today where instead of gradually transforming, we have to pull a little desperately behind the rescue brake. These politicians should therefore apologize not only for the billions they have managed, but also for not directing the Czech Post to the twenty-first century a long time ago. Because honestly speaking, our Post Office offers its services in a similar way to the 20th century in 2023. It would be honorable to take political responsibility for this. Many of the previous government politicians have already been issued by voters and not allowed into this House. They have already felt their political responsibility. I understand the rest of us here that they don't want to apologize to the citizens. Who would want to plead guilty for billions of losses and misunderstand developments? Ladies and gentlemen, the subject of this meeting is not a law. The subject of this meeting is an attempt to shift political responsibility from past to present. But you can talk here for days, but you can't change the truth. The only outcome of the discussion of the Czech Post by this House would rightly be a resolution which might sound something like this: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic notes that the lag of the modernisation of the Czech Post and the deterioration of the company's financial situation until the state of actual insolvency was a long-term process which took place in several previous parliamentary periods." [[18.00 hours]] But why just stay with the resolution? Now, please take it with exaggeration. We can also talk directly about the establishment of a parliamentary committee that would map the detailed way for our citizens and the public for many years from at least some profit of the Czech Post to a deep loss. Personally, however, I think that this is a waste of time for us to deal with current problems and laws for the future. Voters have their reason, and political responsibility will certainly be attributed to those who are to bear it. Finally, let me say: what is happening today, what is represented here by Minister Rakušan, is an attempt to get the Czech Post out of the crisis. It is about its stabilization, modernisation and transformation. In short, and well, we want to save the Czech Post. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u59	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Mr Ondřej Lochman will now speak with priority. Otherwise, I wish you all a good evening. We took turns managing the meeting. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u60	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, I have been thinking about what it would look like if we had really constructive opposition and if I were the shadow minister of the interior, or preferably if I were the shadow minister of the interior, such as Jana Vildumetzová, so if I were the shadow minister of the interior Jana Vildumetzová, I would like to thank the government coalition and especially Minister Vít Rakušan for the courage he has taken to rescue the Czech Post. With colleagues from the ANO movement, we appreciate the activities of Minister Vít Rakušan, who has embarked on a solution to this long-term and delayed problem. After all, the Czech Post has been in permanent economic loss since 2018. We ourselves from our eight-year experience know how difficult it is to take unpopular, really unpopular, but mainly conceptual measures, and for this reason we have not done any in this matter. In previous years, there have been elections almost every year, and we, as a government party, could not afford to take unpopular measures towards our constituents. So we exchanged a safe electoral result for having český mail here without a sustainable solution. That is why we left the Czech Republic with the highest debt in 2021, not only by our credit. However, I would have to rely on some formulas for the Yes movement. It is not true that we are critical of the proposed solution, and we cannot, because already in 2019 our President Andrej Babiš said that the maintenance of 3,200 Post offices has no economic justification. This has already been said by Minister Síkela. As you can see, the Interior Minister Vít Rakušan is just continuing with concrete steps towards fulfilling the vision presented by our President in 2019. As has already been said by Minister Austrian, interest in postal services has fallen by 40 percent in the Czech Republic in recent years since 2013. The number of mail shipments transported has also fallen by 50 per cent. We can therefore understand with our colleagues in the movement that the Czech Post cannot work on the principles that worked here 30 years ago. I would also like to promise from the opposition that we, too, will be patient in explaining to our colleagues from the communal where the cancellation of branches occurred that your reduction in the number of branches was necessary, as our President said in 2019, and at the same time I would also like to promise that we will try to explain to the voters of our movement what other alternative solutions are. For example, the fact that the Czech Post pays 650,000 pensions a month and they are in cash or are being distributed further. So this is a fifth of the total. There are other alternative solutions, such as a transfer to a bank account. By the way, the banks are offering a few thousand today for starting an account with them. And I would also like to assure here that we will motivate all businessmen and business individuals to use data mailbox services that can fully transfer communication with the state administration to digital. Their number is already worth 3.5 million. We promoted them ourselves. It is clear that having the densest network of branches in Europe is not sustainable, according to our president even in the world, as it was said in tweet or Zhau people in August 2019. Therefore, I really thank the government for taking a bold step and taking the weight of decision making. We understand that communicating such a sensitive subject is ungrateful, yet again I openly admit that our movement for this transformation did not have the strength. Despite my role as shadow secretary of the interior of the ANO movement, who is in opposition, I call on everyone constructively to support the cancellation plan of the Czech Post branches, because it is a step in the right direction. If this speech were also a letter, it might be possible to join in: Please also solve the deferred pension reform that we had in the program but failed to reach. Maybe your Jana after all. I hope that this contribution will contribute to the reflection of how it is with the Czech Post, and thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u61	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. That was the last logged in with priority rights. We will continue with the general debate to which Mr Stržínek is now registered, whom I invite to the microphone. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u62	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me also comment on the intention to cancel Czech Post offices. In the Zlín Region Česká pošta plans to cancel a total of 14 branches. One in Zlín and in Rožnov pod Radhoštěm, two in Kroměříž, Uherské Brod and Uherské Hradiště, Vsetín and Valašské Meziříčí after three branches. It sounds incredible, but really in the city in which I am mayor, in more than 20 thousand Valašské Meziříčí, three of the four branches of the Czech Post are planned to be cancelled, such as a branch on Zašovská Street, which is located directly in the building of the city office, is intensively used by this office. Its services are used by guardians of the social department, the mailroom, the travel document department, civil and driving documents. It is important for clients and sales of stamps. On the post office alone, the city office paid more than CZK 2 million last year and the costs of shipments from the Ministry of the Interior have to be added to this. A large number of people here collect their social benefits. Another busy branch on J. K. Tyla Street is located right in the building of the senior home, which comes here for pensions, pays bills and SIPO, and is also used by people from our largest housing estate Vyhlídek, even thanks to its barrier-freeness, unlike the main branch near the square, which, for example, mommy with a pram has no chance of getting into. Please note that not everyone has a data box, bank account and credit card. There's a big group of people who don't have it, and they never will. For them Czech Post is the only possible communication and payment channel. I have clearly described all these reasons and also sent them, both by means of a data message, both at the Directorate-General of the Czech Post and to Minister Rakušan. The answer is ruthless, and I can quote some passages from it: "In view of the economic condition, Czech Post cannot afford to operate branches which are not required by law. As of 1 July 2023, 300 post offices will therefore be closed permanently and without compensation. In the selection of reduced branches, the Czech Post was based on three criteria: legislative, economic and customer. The walking distance to the nearest branch in municipalities with a population of over 2,500 will be a maximum of three kilometers crow flies instead of the current two kilometers. We believe that the capacity set will be more than sufficient for clients. In this context, we would like to inform you that in the case of parcel packages, clients can also use an extended network of Czech Post, a partner parcel shop that serves as the delivery and delivery of parcel lots. Mr. Mayor, I firmly believe that you will accept this explanation with understanding. Manager of the internal network Morava-jih.' [[18.10 hours]] Well, Dear Manager, Dear Director General and Dear Minister of the Interior, I will certainly not accept this explanation with understanding, but I have a proposal for you. Let's do something you haven't done before. Let's have a dialogue, let's talk about your intention, present us with the data you were based on in establishing closed branches. Let's talk about the possible co-financing of the operation of at least some branches of the city. The standard is debate, dialogue and the search for compromise, not ultimate decisions. So I call on you to discuss and find a solution other than what you are coming up with at the moment. Finally, allow me one more sigh. In addition to the cancellation of the postal services in the Zlín Region, the abolition of four offices of financial offices is also planned in Bystřice pod Hostýn, Holešov, Luhačovice and Valašské Klobouky. And the icing on the cake is then planned to cancel the customs office in Valašské Meziříčí, a customs office used by dozens of companies in our city. Forgive me, honourable members of the government, but overall I see this as not digitalisation, but the devastation of state services, not only in the Zlín Region. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u63	Next up, Mr. Vrána's Member, he'll be ready... Sorry, with a factual remark, Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová is registered. Mr. Vrána will follow. Madam, please, you have your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u64	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I was in the lobby, I was discussing the preparation of the resolution and I noticed that Mr Lochman, on behalf of the STAN movement, was trying to use my name in some way, how I should work together and so on. Mr. Lochman, your performance was arrogant again, full of your power and so on. I think that as the former mayor, as the former chieftain, as the former deputy on the inside, I know how such things should be handled. And your biggest weakness is communication. You don't communicate with these people and those mayors at all. Please step out of the bubble, go among the people, go to the mailmen, see the mayors, and ask them how it should be. But the way you guys do it, it's totally awful. And yet you dare to perform here with such a performance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u65	Thank you. I will ask you, Madame, to address your colleagues through the President. Thank you very much. And before we go back to the general debate, I have three excuses to load. Mr Dvořák apologises from 18:00 on health grounds, Mr Richter also apologizes from 15:00 on health grounds, and Minister Černochová apologises from 18:30 on business grounds. So, we are going back to the general debate and now there is room for Mr Vrána.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u66	Good evening. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not wish to call into question the need for restructuring of the Czech Post by my output, but I want to question the way in which this is done and, above all, communicated. I will be quite specific and as an example I will present the situation in the Olomouc Region and in the statutory city of Přerov. As mayor of the city, I wanted to arrange a meeting with representatives of the Czech Post at Přerov when information about the cancellation of 300 branches came out. This meeting was first confirmed and subsequently cancelled. That was probably some sort of central order not to inform the public and the authorities too soon. Of course, many of our citizens began to question me, and I had no information for them at all. I learned everything from the media who asked me how I felt about the cancellation of the branches. Two branches out of four are cancelled in Přerov. I wrote several letters to Minister Rakušan, Director of Czech Post and ČTÚ. The day after the decision of the government, a representative of the Czech Post came to me, who had no mandate to discuss the possibilities of maintaining the necessary branches and merely explained to me the reasons why the cancellation took place. I could have read the reasons in the press. The meeting was completely unnecessary, it was just a meeting for the meeting so that the Czech Post had a comma that it was dealing with the mayors. The Minister of Rakušan's written response to my request for the preservation of branches may not be worth talking about. The general letter was so vague that it was just a stencilous mixture of words for any mayor or mayor in our country. The method of non-communication by the Czech Post, ČTÚ and Minister Rakušan is unprecedented and none of these bodies has consulted us, mayors and mayors in the Olomouc Region. No one asked the local specifics why it is important to preserve this branch or that branch. Economic indicators cannot always be dogma. Unfortunately, communication did not take place until the decision was made. I find it unacceptable that a branch will be cancelled in Přerov The bridgehead, where only 4,500 thousand inhabitants live on the estate, and other local parts such as Vinary, Čečky, Penčice, Žeravice, together with the bridgehead live there 6 500 people. We were just faced with a done deal. We have been informed that the exchange of one of the closed branches for the Post Partner may not be possible. This product is based on the fact that the Czech Post contributes approximately 25 000 per month to the branch, it has been explained to me. What I heard again in the media was that the establishment of Czech Post Partner Plus might be considered. That sounds like another low-down for self-government to me. After all, Partner Plus is more of a commercial business center-oriented product. If the shopping centre wants to attract more customers, the Czech Post will request the establishment of the Czech Post Partner Plus. However, the problem is that the post office is paid 35,000 a month. So if I make this short, the pošta Office says: Dear mayors, if you are not satisfied with the closure of the branches, there is nothing you can do about it and you may be able to open the Czech mail Partner Plus, you will have to pay for the premises, staff, energy and you municipalities will still have to pay 35,000 a month for the branch. In the Olomouc Region, it was decided without discussion with people and self-government to cancel twenty branches. Why did no one treat us with representatives of the Czech Post in advance to compromise? Why did we learn from the media about the abolition of this vital service for our citizens? I would like to call on Minister Rakušan, Director of the Czech Post and Director of the Czech Communications Office to reconsider their decision and, in the case of Přerov, to preserve the Czech Post branch in Předmost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u67	Mr Hendrych's speech will follow, Mr Letocha's Member will be prepared. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u68	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, it is never wrong to look at any issue not only from a macro perspective, but also from a micro point of view, that is, from a case-by-case point of view. In this context, I would like to draw attention to one rather bizarre story, at least from my point of view and from the perspective of my fellow citizens from the statutory city of Opava, how was the cancellation of branch number two, with the historical designation number two, of the Czech Post office in Opava. She was historically part of and is part of the building of the so-called Opava-West railway station, which began to be complexly reconstructed from finance, or from the subsidy of the Ministry of Finance, some three years ago. It cost CZK 100 million and only the reconstruction of post office space number two in Opava alone cost CZK 15 million. [[18.20 hours]] Throughout the reconstruction, the post office was closed. The reconstruction was focused on the reconstruction of the space so that it served only the needs of the Czech Post, which worked and worked in the place, so far still, for several decades. On 29th March, this branch was ceremonially opened in the presence of Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura in connection with the opening of the reconstructed Opava-west railway station, editing the tape, tinkling with glasses, talking about how great it was that the Police of the Czech Republic, the Czech Railways and Česká pošta will work in one place. There were a lot of guests, a lot of public - and two days later a letter came to the mayor of the statutory city of Opava that this branch, as well as the other three in Opava, would be canceled from 1 July. I really consider it a very, very bizarre story, and I find it very difficult to answer questions from my fellow citizens in Opava, how this could have happened, how it could have cost them to even think, work and spend public money in this way. Just $15 million went into a mail repair that wouldn't work. I can't answer that, which is why I think it might not be a good idea for Minister Rakušan himself to come to Opava and talk to the citizens of Opava about this and explain to them the logic of this process. As well as the logic of other matters, which have already been mentioned here, although I do not think today - how it is possible that in Opava, which has 56 000 inhabitants, four branches of six have been cancelled, or four branches of six will be cancelled, and in Cologne, which has 32 000 inhabitants, only one will be cancelled and three will remain. That means Opava 56,000, two branches remain, three branches remain in Cologne. That, too, is what I think the Minister of Rakušan should answer in public. And I do not think that only the citizens of Opava, but in general citizens of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u69	Thank you. Now, Mrs Pastuchová's factual point. Mr. Letocha will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u70	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I will not respond to the mail, but through you I will respond to Mr Letocha. I'm his performance here very carefully... [[A voice from the diaper.]] Excuse me, Mr Lochman, excuse me... Mr Lochman. I listened carefully to his performance and began to wonder if there was something wrong with him, because he changed into a woman here and started talking like a woman. And I had these cases in the ambulance. [[Laughs in the hall.]] So I would recommend to the honourable Member whether he has these problems more often to consult with the Minister of Health on what to do with it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u71	Madam, thank you for the point of fact, but I would nevertheless like to call on you that we are not in a medical office and we would not have to make a diagnosis from the counter. And, of course, this applies both to the opposition and to the coalition. I don't think it belongs here. Mr Lochman is reporting with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u72	Just for a very short time. I really think that, like the insults of President Babiš, who were here on Mr Síkela, this does not belong here. That's all I've got to say.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u73	Thank you. I also ask that we get back to the matter, if necessary. Mr Letocha will now be speaking.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u74	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, we have dealt with the topic of the Czech Post several times in the past, the last time I spoke on an extraordinary Security Committee and tried to call on the opposition to a productive political debate on the transformation of the Czech Post. Unfortunately, my plea was unheard, and the opposition repeats the truth several times over and over again. I would like to sum up in the timeline, let's say by 2017 and then what happened to the Czech Post. If many have fallen here, I'll try to make it short. Simply, by 2017 the Czech Post was profitable. Since 2018 Czech Post has been in the negative. By the way, from 2018 until now, as has already been said here today, the decline of 40 percent in the use of its services was. In 2021, the government of Andrej Babiš adopted an idea intention and also proposed in the past to cancel 1,000 branches of Czech Post. If the last government had done that, I don't think we'd have to pull the emergency brake here today and cancel 300 branches. And she had a reason, by the way. On 18 February 2020, the previous Government submitted a draft law on electronic identification and was approved for about a year, on 5 March 2021. What was that? It was a law whereby data boxes were to be established for all citizens who, in the past or in the future, applied for an electronic service by their electronic identity. You should have expected that the Czech Post would essentially incur certain costs with the establishment of these data boxes, but at the same time, there would be a large revenue gap, because most citizens who log in to electronic records would get into the state of the mandatory data boxes, and the decline in the Czech Post's revenue would be significantly larger than CZK 2 billion. That's what I think you've had a year to deal with. But there was a unique opportunity where you could very easily and without a doubt explain that if we are going through digitalization, we need to transform Czech mail, and I think that would not hurt you politically. Finally, at the end of the year, we abolished this obligation for non-business individuals and left it only to the CFI and legal entities. Even so, the blackout in the income of the Czech Post will be approximately CZK 2 billion. I ask, why did the government of Andrej Babiš not deal with this in this context? Why did she let it go so far when she had such an ideal opportunity? The cancellation of 300 branches is at this time the pulling of the emergency brake, not the transformation plan. Saving here is supposed to be 700 million crowns, as has been said here, but annually - every year - that is, every year. And I expect and look for a proposal from the opposition. Nothing. All I noticed was a six-month shift in mail jamming, which would basically be October of this year. And even though we discussed on the Security Committee that the Czech Post awaits insolvency already in the autumn of this year, in September or October. Am I to understand that you want to let Pošta fall into insolvency? Is that your only suggestion for this solution? And in this constellation, you still criticize the Home Secretary for what you didn't have the strength and courage to do. You criticize that the minister does not communicate, while the minister had a meeting with the Association of Local Authorities, at the same time with the Association of Towns and Municipalities, met with petents of petition about the Czech Post, discussed with the trade unions, together with a colleague Martin Hájek in the House organized a seminar on the topic of Czech Post. I think the Minister of the Interior has dealt with this topic for a long time. You accuse him that the Minister did nothing in a year and a half, while some members of the Supervisory Board were replaced, the Director General was also dismissed. Someone asked who was responsible and why he wasn't punished. Well, he's been punished. The Director-General has been called off and a new tender has been drawn up for him. And, yes, no candidate has been chosen yet, so there's an authorised director there. And you're also blaming that basically in those positions of the Czech Post that will be canceled by employee positions that there is no management. But in recent years, just 30 people from middle management have already left. [[18.30 hours]] To cancel the branches. I consider it right that specific branches for cancellation proposed by the Czech Post and not the Ministry of the Interior. And I appreciate that the management of the Czech Post within one week of sending a list of cancellations of branches into the territory has arranged for one hundred percent of meetings with the mayors concerned and mayors of 113 municipalities and cities. Basically, a number was set for the negotiation itself, the number is 300 branches. And I imagine that all mayors would want, if they had to be designated, four branches would be cancelled, that they would only want three to be cancelled. However, this number cannot be changed. And I understand it very well, because the moment we actually change it and in a village or city we agree that one branch doesn't really cancel, we'd have to find somewhere else in the village, in the city, that branch that we didn't cancel here and cancel elsewhere. This would be very inconvenient. And if we have to follow those 300 branches, it seems to me like a logical solution that mayors and mayors have the opportunity to communicate which of those branches will be cancelled, but not how many of them will be, because it was given. The transformation plan is now underway. And I believe that the transformation of the Czech Post will succeed. I would very much like the opposition to come forward with proposals and help us at this time, when the Czech Post is not doing very well, explaining to citizens that digitalisation and basically the use of digital technologies, which, by the way, even during your government, has managed to expand significantly, is the right way and that it is the light of the future. And, yes, the post office should stay here for the citizens who haven't done so much for the digitization so far. They should remain for those who do not control mobile devices that do not control a computer. It's okay. At this point, I want to say that the availability of the Czech Post is currently increasing from two kilometers crow flies to three kilometers crow flies. Yes, it is a certain increase, but on the other hand, it is a tax for the need to do something about the Czech Post, and let's talk to people together about getting started, if they can, enjoy the benefits of digitalization, the advantages of communicating with the state electronically. Finally, I would like to thank Minister Rakušan and the entire government for having the courage to address the situation in the Czech Post, because it has not yet been the norm here, the political courage. And I also want to thank you that they will not cancel branches in the municipalities where the Post office has only one branch, because it is only the last one, mostly the last institution that remains in the smaller community, and it is also one of the reasons why the number of 1,000 shrinks to 300. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u75	Your performance brought up two factual points. Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová will be the first to make a point of fact. Before they do, I'll read one apology. Mr Koten has been apologizing since 17.40 hours for reasons of work. Madam, please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u76	Thank you for your word. I would like to respond to the Member and also to the representative of Karviná, where four branches of the Czech Post are cancelled. I'm sure the citizens will be very happy for you! Once again, I would like to say that we are criticizing the progress of the Interior Minister Vít Rakušan. Why don't they cover up the analysis that the branches were selected for? You know very well that the digitization isn't at a level today so all those branches can close down. There are just a lot of people who use the Czech Post, especially older citizens who are afraid to set up Internet banking and want to go to the post office and collect the pension there. You knew about the data boxes, my colleague, through Mr President, you pushed for it, because you wanted it, the Minister of Interior knew it for a year and a half, and he did not solve it and put the Czech Post in historical loss in 2022, a billion 750 million and insolvency. If we're talking about 300 branches being canceled and the savings are going to be 700 million, it's practically 300 million in half a year. If the loss is going to be 4 billion, it's just not gonna help, that's a fact. But I say again, move it up six months, which means at least January 1, 2024, discuss it with the mayors and let them know that if they want to run the mail or find a business entity, let them do it. Why are you taking it away from them? They want to do it. I think there might be a businessman who wants to have it. So please, your performance, of course, to support Vít Rakušan was completely out of control. Thanks. [[President: Time, Madame.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u77	Thank you. Another factual point, Mrs Taťána Malá, will be followed by Mr Letocha's factual point. Madam, please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u78	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I really didn't want to perform, but it's been down here for, like, 25 years. At first, Minister Síkela, with his courage, was constantly doing so, now his colleague Letocha. If you're so brave and you're the cool guys, it's too bad your courage ends up at the House door and the Ministry's door. Because if it wasn't, you'd climb up to the square and explain to people how it all is, and you'd stand in front of them. But you can just talk about how brave you are, just behind that microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u79	A factual remark from Mr Letocha will now follow. Let's see if it's a brave performance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u80	I don't think so. I would just like to respond in a matter of fact, first of all, to correct the Member, through you. I'm no longer a representative in Karvina, but that's okay. Anyway, I think it might still be very interesting here, because, of course, I'd like to be able to influence that there will be four branches in Karvina, but maybe only two. I'd like that very much. But precisely because the Home Secretary doesn't want to do this, and he doesn't want every one of the 108 Members to be able to work on the Ministry of the Interior, so in his town, they don't cancel the branch, so this is what I think is right for the Czech Post to determine how many branches are to be cancelled there. And it's up to the mayor of the town of Karviné, and I wish him luck if he's not satisfied with the selection of disturbed branches to negotiate those branches with the Czech Post and convince her that there are others that need to be cancelled. So here, it's perfectly consistent with what the minister basically said. And otherwise, I'd have to repeat myself in that speech, and I wouldn't want that anymore. And as part of the courage that has been said here, I just held a debate in Karvina 14 days ago on what is going on here, and I carefully explained to the citizens who have come to ask what the situation is at this point in time for the government, what is going on with pensions and so on. Yes, it is true that the český Post was not included in this, because at that time the Czech Post was not yet concerned. But I'm not worried that the moment we have another round of debate, people would find out, and I'd like to explain it to them as much as I'm explaining it now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u81	Thank you. Another comment will be made by Mr Kasal, Mr Mašek will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u82	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would like to comment on Mr Letoch by your means. I listened to him very carefully, and it seemed to me that he got a little confused, because he was here telling us that we should explain as opposition, and we should come up with ideas. Mr. Letoc, you're disturbing those branches, you came up with a program that no one saw, an analysis that no one saw, so how are we supposed to comment on? And the opposition is not here to explain your actions. You've got the wrong guy!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u83	The next, with a factual remark, will be given by Mr Mašek. Before they do, I'll read one apology. Mr. Výborný Marek apologizes from 18.15 hours for working reasons. Ambassador, please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u84	Thank you very much. So here was repeatedly a call from Mr Letocha, your colleague, to be constructive. We're constructive, and we were on the Security Committee. And our question was: why didn't you use the Post Office Partner program, which was prepared and had to reverse the number of stone mails from the current about 2,400 to 600 and instead replace it with the Post Office Partner program, which is significantly cheaper? I have repeatedly called on both the Minister and the representative of the Czech Post to serve us with some numbers that cost. You weren't able to do that. So I picked up some basic numbers from today's meeting. [[18.40 hours]] So saving cuts, I say blunt cuts again, 300 branches are supposed to make a savings of 700 million a year. That's actually a share of $2.33 million per post office. On the other hand, it fell in one of my colleagues' contributions that the Post Office was offered 25 000 crowns a month to support the city or the partner at the Post Office Partner, which is 300,000 a year. So if the Post Office actually used that time from January last year to negotiate with the mayors and mayors, it could, without reducing the number absolutely, remain the same, but the transfer to the Post Partner of those 300 branches, so it would be 2,300,000 net savings of the Post Office instead of 300 000 costs per year. So the Post Office would save $2 million. I'm just wondering why Minister Rakušan doesn't say that here. Because he can't. He doesn't have a transformation committee. He cooks from water and cooks from zero. So the fact is, it would be solvable, it wouldn't have to be reduced, and the mayors would like to agree to such cooperation. [[Time, Mr. Ambassador!]] [[Time!]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u85	Thank you. We are going back to the general debate. Mr Bělica will now appear. Mr. Bělica's already on the microphone, so please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u86	Hello, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I would also like to comment briefly on the issue of the Czech Post. In the past, I have tried to load a point called Ceska pošta branching in the Moravian-Silesian Region, but unfortunately I was not allowed to load this point and was not approved. I think the whole case has taken on some interesting dynamics all this time, and this whole issue is intersecting with a couple of quite spicy moments. One of them is completely zero communication with the mayors and mayors before the decision is made. I'm just worried that coalition MPs not only don't want to listen to us, but the arrogance that some of you have performed with today is proof of that. You're not listening to us at all. Follow-up negotiations with the mayors and mayors after the decision was made? Like really negotiating from word to word? That was the announcement meeting. At least the one I've been through. The representative of the Czech Post behaved politely, correctly, but the negotiations began with the fact that this is not a negotiation. He came to tell me what happened. In my native and beautiful Havířov from eight branches will be cancelled five. We're left with three. Ladies and gentlemen, one branch for 23,000 people. We are the second largest, second most populous city in the Moravian-Silesian region, and we were not standing for anyone, and those citizens weren't worth telling us what parameters - and that's another of the points we've been talking about all along - that's what's happening. Why 56 branches in Moravian-Silesian Region? Why not 50, why not 30? On what economic data was this selected? Who decided that? Who did the analysis? Is there a transformation plan? Mrs. Columbová. We've all heard of him several times, but no one's ever seen him. That's what we're talking about here. We want to talk about these things, we were ready to talk about them, but somebody put us in front of a done deal. I was promised at the end of the meeting that I would get the data, I didn't get it. Maybe I'll get them in the future. I don't know. On this basis, I am co-author of two challenges. Today, when I heard the first speech of Minister Rakušan, I thought that I would not read the challenges here, but after what he did, by your means, Mr President, Minister Síkela, the arrogance and smugness with which he was able to perform, and I'm going to put it on display, so I'm going to read them. The first challenge the mayors and mayors signed - Mr. Letoc - from Karvina County. As you said here, you are no longer a representative of Karvina because you failed in the election. You didn't get over five percent. Maybe that's the reason, like the arrogance and the way you have to approach these people in this community policy. So maybe it would take a little humility in that direction. Dear Minister Rakušan, as Chairman of the mayor's movement, you threw the mayors overboard. You decided to cancel Czech Post offices without us. No one in the Ministry of the Interior was communicating with us or consulting us. How could officials in Prague make a relevant decision to close one or another mail if they did not know the local specifics? And economic indicators really can't always be dogma. We might understand that some rapid economic measures must come to light, that the Czech Post is an overblown state pier that needs to be slimmed down. But after a number of management failures of interest groups around your person, ordinary people, Post Office clients and her employees will eventually take the fall. Minister, do you even know that in some cities you close barrier-free offices and leave only disabled citizens unavailable, such as Opava or Šumperk? Why weren't we informed as mayors and mayors of the cancellation of mail in our cities? Why did we find out all the way from the paper? Why couldn't we give our views on the planned closure and draw attention to any problems with the termination of the availability of postal services in one or another location? After all, it is us mayors and mayors who must now explain to citizens the rash, illogical and bad decisions of the management of the Czech Post. - Minister Rakušan, you failed as Minister. Signed by three mayors and mayors from Karvina County. Minister Rakušan, do you know that you are going to disturb the branches that you recently renovated, such as Opava at the station? That the reconstruction of the branch cost CZK 15 million, and a few weeks ago, your finance minister Stanjura opened it as an opava patriot? I get it. Isn't that stupid? Like when Deputy Post tells me that the restructuring's been in the drawer for years, I ask, when it came down to being a good businessman, why were the branches that are being canceled? Did you know that repairing that station cost CZK 100 million? And that the city is now renovating the pre-station area from its costs, and by the way, there's a designed parking lot for the mail that's going to be cancelled? It's not a joke. This is the Czech Republic and this is an unprepared restructuring and transformation in its consequences. If you ever stick your nose out of offices, you'd see real life. Can someone please tell me how many of these closed branches have been renovated in the last two years, and how much has it cost? Wouldn't there be any funds for the restructuring itself? Will you finally publish the data on the basis of which the decisions are being made? Will you present the separate restructuring plan? Does it even exist? What's the result? What is the balance sheet of the whole project? If you're going to transform something, you have to know how much it's going to cost and what it's going to bring! Minister, you've been talking about the sustainability of the Post Office. I understand that the pošta Office is not primarily a profit company, but what is the sustainability? What are the numbers? How will it work after the restructuring? I mean, you've been telling us all this time that it's not just about the 300 branches, that it's going to continue. But how? That Mrs. Columbová no one saw. What about the availability of individual services to those citizens you're about to cancel that wheelchair branch, and they just don't get to the post office after the stairs? Yeah, they're gonna come to us, the mayors, the mayors, and they're gonna ask for a solution. Will the restructuring result in the distribution of the Post Office into more companies? Is that part of it? Will the parcel service be separated, will mail shipments be distributed? And we want to answer these questions. That's all. I think it's constructive, there's nothing illegitimate about it. Let me quote to you a colleague of the mayor Děčín, who wrote to our group because we are communicating about this after negotiations with a representative of the Czech Post, this - I quote: I have also completed negotiations with the Post Office. I learned exactly what I expected and didn't want to hear. But what pissed me off is the terms of the Partner Plus Mail. If we want to run it where the Post office is leaving from, we will pay in addition to the entire operation and equipment and charges also license for the post office franchise. 30,000 crowns a month. End of quote. [[18.50 hours]] Seriously? Are we really gonna pay franchise like fast food? Are we really still talking about the Czech Post Office? Someone tells Mayor Přerov 35 and it's gonna be 30 in Decin? So there's some paper and some kind of background that somebody's gonna stand up for? There's some kind of analysis, isn't there? I had the council meeting on Monday. You, Minister, have proved one quite interesting thing in your approach to the transformation of the Czech Post and quite unprecedented for our city. All the deputies agreed that it was stupid when we didn't have the information, and even our opposition, which, in principle, is always against, was suddenly silent and agreed with us. So, after all, you've done something in this direction. However, even the representatives of our city expressed their interest in getting the data that leads to the transformation, and how it will look, they will receive it. I still see the cancellation of branches as part of some kind of restructuring project. But how are we supposed to tell these citizens what part and what if there is no such thing? And since it takes some time, I am co-author of the second challenge, Minister, and this time the challenge I have addressed to you as Chairman of the Mayors and Independent Movement. Let me quote it: Mr President of the Mayors movement and independent Vít Rakušan, since you have repeatedly failed the confidence of the mayors and mayors of the cities and municipalities of the Czech Republic, we call on you to stop associating politically with your colleagues under the name of the starosta. Zero communication with the management of municipalities, no respect for the needs of cities and municipalities, so you can summarize the style of your work. Last time you failed to transform the Czech Post, you completely bypassed the mayors and mayors and decided to cancel hundreds of branches without their knowledge together with the management of the Czech Post. Consider our challenge as a logical and correct and legitimate step to prevent the confusion of citizens of the Czech Republic. You don't actually represent the mayors, so why are you hiding behind us? We honor democratic principles, respect the outcome of the elections and do not question your right to serve in the Government of the Czech Republic, but we strongly protest against the abuse of the work of mayors and mayors in the name of your movement. You are not entitled to this, and here are some reasons. Firstly, the mayor and independent movement has far fewer mayors in its ranks than other political actors represented in the Chamber of Deputies. On your ballots, mayors are quite rare. And most importantly, the direction of your work and the style of communication with ammunition are not an asset to the mayors. On the contrary, you are making our work for citizens difficult and difficult. Mr. Rakušan, we call on you to stop taking advantage of the work of mayors and mayors and, as chairman, initiate a change in your movement, a change in your name. End of quote. Ladies and gentlemen, when I was preparing this challenge, I thought to myself, maybe she won't get any momentum. And you'll be surprised, she's picking up. It was signed at the beginning by eight, ten mayors and mayors, and today there are nearly fifty signatures, of which twelve mayors, deputy mayors, deputy mayors. Transformation of Czech Post is really a topic. We're all sorry that the last person to know about this is the mayors and the mayors. We just don't have the data. And after everything that this debate is going on, and as it has been unnecessarily escalated, I would really like to go back to the way Minister Rakušan spoke here at the beginning, and I wanted to adjust my speech on the basis of his helpful presentation, that it will not be so heated, but unfortunately after the presentation by Minister Síkela, through you, and then Mr Lochman - are you really proud of yourself? The way you put the situation? How do you present your arrogance? Well, if you're proud of it, congratulations on that. I would still like to comment here on the comment made by Minister Jurečka, who spoke here about the government's efforts. Minister Jurečka, I'm from the region of sudden, and I really, sometimes when I go to a pub in our village, I never know if I'm gonna come out without getting my ass kicked, as we say. I've always done it so far. And, Minister, I'll tell you about the government's efforts - in my country, it's said that the effort is not a coker shop, or that's why. [[Fun in the hall.]] So, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that the arrogance that some of my fellow Members have spoken to will not become a standard for the future. I've said it many times, we should all start with each other, the accusations-- you and this and we should start with that. But we are responsible for those people in this country. Let's take that first step and start talking about these things. Let's start preparing these things so that they make sense to us, and please listen to each other. Without insults and without anyone having to waste any performances of his colleague knocking down, cutting down, and attacking him unnecessarily. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your attention, and I hope I didn't bore you too much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u87	The last one entered into the general debate so far is Mrs Ožanová. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u88	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr Letoc, through you, Mr Vice-President, you said you were looking for a proposal from the opposition. We're looking for your analysis. So much for that, because, like Minister Síkela, I want to respond to the previous debate. Before Easter, I proposed a point called Mathematics of the Czech Post, and oddly enough this point was not approved. You are completely ignoring our efforts to discuss this. You are saying that there has been some discussion on the Security Committee, but this discussion is supposed to take place here. In response to what is happening, I have already submitted a written interview and I believe that if there is a will, it will be answered before 30 days' time, and therefore I thank the Minister Rakušan in advance that he will answer my request and reply to my question as soon as possible. As far as the mathematics of the Czech Post is concerned, it has been said here several times, here the former Deputy Mayor of Opava complained about the 56,000 inhabitants of Opava, two post offices. Ladies and gentlemen, the city district of Ostrava south has 100,000 inhabitants, there will be two post offices left, i.e. for 50,000 inhabitants one post office. Did that really work out for you in your analysis? Do you think that's normal? Yes, then you could close down substantially more branches if you think that way when you put one mail in 50,000 people. And another thing that was interesting was the urban district of Moravian Ostrava and Přívoz. The mayor received a lovely letter saying that two branches were canceled, he read in the paper that three were canceled. Two doesn't equal three. Please learn math. It's really not appropriate. I wanted to talk a little longer, I won't. I'll remind you of one thing that didn't come out. The post also carries out other tasks, such as delivering legal subpoenas and matters relating to administrative proceedings, lane envelopes. I would like to know how the analysis envisaged how this delivery will be ensured, because at least what I have heard from the press, not here, will be limited, for example, by opening hours and so on. How will the fiction of delivery be counted if these people are prevented from receiving a subpoena from the court properly within the time limits or administrative authorities? And the digitization, too. I understand that you're trying to push people into having data boxes, but please, there are people who don't want to use computer technology, there are older people who find it problematic. And I'm sorry, I also exist when an Internet operator doesn't give a shit about me, and even though I'm paying for the Internet, I don't have proper services. I don't want a data box because I just can't pick it up. I will not speak or read my prepared speech any more, because I want us to be done in time today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u89	Thank you, Madame. That's the last one entered into the discussion so far. I'm asking if anyone else is reporting for a general debate from the point of view? I see no one, so I end the general debate and ask if there is interest in the final words? It's not. We will therefore proceed to the debate in detail to which the rapporteur, Mrs Mr Mračková Vildumetzová, is reporting. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u90	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I have announced in the general debate that we will propose a resolution with seven points. I have brought a motion for this resolution to every parliamentary club. I will now read it in a detailed debate and I would like to ask that we vote separately on each item. It is practically based on what was discussed today about the situation in the Czech Post. So, first point. First, the Chamber of Deputies calls on the Minister of the Interior...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u91	Yes, Madam, I understand. Please, colleagues and colleagues, please calm down. A resolution will be loaded, which we will vote on in a few moments. So please let us all know what we're going to vote on. Madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u92	Thank you. The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Minister of the Interior to submit an analysis on the basis of which individual branches have been selected for closure. - I would like to point out that this resolution was approved by the Security Committee. Secondly, the Chamber of Deputies calls on the Minister of the Interior to postpone the closure of the Czech Post branches by at least six months until agreement is reached with the cities and municipalities concerned. Thirdly, the Chamber of Deputies calls on the Minister of the Interior to submit clear conditions under which the cities concerned can maintain the Post Office offices under the Post Partner project. - I would like to point out that this resolution was also approved by the Security Committee. Fourthly, the Chamber of Deputies calls on the Minister of the Interior to send funds to the Czech Post Office, s. p., in the form of compensation for the covid and refugee crisis. Fifthly, the Chamber of Deputies calls on the Minister of the Interior to offer empty Czech Post objects to cities and municipalities and, if necessary, to approve a free transfer by the Government of the Czech Republic in accordance with legislation. Sixthly, the Chamber of Deputies calls on the Minister of the Interior to submit an analysis and data on the advantages of transferring transport to private companies in 2022. - This has also been approved by the Security Committee. Last one. The Security Committee has ordered the Supreme Audit Office to go to the Czech Post for inspection. However, this resolution had to be formulated, and that is to say: The Chamber of Deputies submits, pursuant to § 17 para. 3 of Law No. 166/1993 Coll., on the Supreme Audit Office, as amended, complaint to the Supreme Audit Office for control of the activities of the Czech Post, s. p., and requests that it be carried out without delay. [[A silence for restlessness in the room.]] Thank you, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u93	I also thank you for the peace in the hall... Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u94	I would now propose that I always read, Mr Vice-President, the motion for a resolution that you would put to the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u95	Madam, I'm sure. However, I am still asking if anyone else is reporting for a detailed debate. Yes, Mr Lochman reporting, so I ask him to take the floor. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u96	Thank you for the floor. I have another suggestion. I would suggest that this be easier in a procedural manner, after discussing with the Vice-President, that we read the points below us. On one point, we are almost in agreement with the colleague, on the other hand, we do not agree with the first. It was evident from the discussion that we had a different view of how the Post was to be transformed. It was clear from the statement made by Minister Rakušan that he stood up for his actions, just as the government accepted these changes. Therefore, first of all, it proposes that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic expresses its support for the Government of the Czech Republic and Vice-President of the Government, Minister Rakušan and the leadership of the Post Office, s. p., with further transformation of the Post Office in order to optimize and stabilise it financially. Two. Here, on the contrary, I would like to look for an agreement in the Committee on Security, and Mrs Vildumetzová, a colleague, through the President, has also read a resolution that is very similar. We've only changed some linguistic parts. Second, however, it submits pursuant to Paragraph 17 (2) (a) of the EC Treaty. 3 of Law No. 166/1993 Coll., on the Supreme Audit Office, as amended, a complaint to the Supreme Audit Office to control the activities of the Czech Post, s. p., and requests that it be carried out without undue delay. So here, practically, my colleague, we agree on this point. If it's any kinder for you, I'm willing to propose a vote after a point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u97	Now I don't understand. You have read these two resolutions and you want to put them both to a vote, even though your second resolution is almost identical to the seventh paragraph of Mrs Mr Vildumetzová?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u98	There's only a change of emphasis at the end of that sentence, but otherwise I want to vote on my form, my form.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u99	Okay. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u100	Mr Vice-President, I don't know if you've gotten inside of me now that you've been performing here today. I would just like to say that what I have read here has been proposed by the Legislative Organising Committee of the Chamber of Deputies here. So here I read the resolution he proposed. But I guess you didn't listen to me. So the proposal is exactly the same. You are therefore proposing that the House vote on the resolution that the Chamber of Deputies expresses its support for the Government, the Vice-President, the Minister of the Interior and the administration of the Post Office in the transformation of the Post in order to optimize and stabilise it financially. I would like to propose that we vote on this as the last point, whether you agree with it, because I have suggested that we vote on points, so it doesn't matter if it is the first or the last point. That means it would be the eighth point, if that's how you agree with it. We're going to vote on individual points anyway, okay? Okay, I'm gonna ask Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u101	Okay. Let me ask if anyone else is still reporting for a detailed debate in which he would like to read any further resolutions or counter-proposals on those tabled? If this is not the case, I am also ending the detailed debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in the final words at this time? There is no interest in the final words, so I will ask the rapporteur to take the floor and load up the various resolutions gradually and we have voted on them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u102	[[Members argue outside the speaker's counter.]] Mr Vice-President, I won't be here, I'm sorry to argue with Mr Lochman that there will be two identical resolutions. Firstly, the resolution on the Supreme Audit Office to go to the Czech Post has been tabled by us on the Security Committee, it has been approved, and today I am in the e-mail... All members of the Security Committee have been given a formulation from the Organising Committee of Legislation, as the resolution should simply be in line with the Rules of Procedure and with all. I copied this and put a resolution in it. So what I don't understand at this point - I'm sorry - is again the game Mr Lochman is coming up with now that his resolution and our resolution are going to be, when the resolution is the same. Yes?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u103	[[Member Lochman is reporting for the floor.]] I'm sorry, but only priority rights. The debate is over, and I can't give you the floor right now, Mr. Ambassador. So I would suggest that there is no consensus between you to simplify this so that we do not talk about how we will vote any longer, because it is about one more vote. If there is no agreement that these resolutions are factually the same, then I recommend that we simply vote on both resolutions, albeit factually the same, but they differ in language. With priority rights, Mr. Vice-President Bartošek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u104	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. For the sake of order only, each of the Members may read the resolution in a detailed debate as it considers it correct. If the resolution differs in just one word, it is not identical resolutions and it is right to vote separately on each. This is just a procedural explanation for what should happen now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u105	That's right. I have the same view, which is why I have also said that, in the absence of an agreement between the rapporteur and the person who made an alternative resolution, we simply have to put to the vote on both resolutions, although their content is factually the same. All right, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u106	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. So the resolution we received here today from the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies, you're telling me it's wrong? Yes? That's actually what you're saying. I'm sorry. Do you know how this affects me, colleagues and colleagues? That it should not be a resolution of the YES movement and that it should be a resolution of the coalition. And that's the whole game. And that seems absolutely incredible to me! So I don't know what to think of your actions anymore!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u107	Madame, don't be mad at me, but we have concluded a detailed debate. Any criticism could be heard both in general and in a detailed debate. That was closed. Now we should simply proceed to the vote. Now you have room to talk about how we're going to vote, what the procedure will be. That is why there is room, not for us to reopen the political debate and argue here about who has given a better or worse resolution. There are two resolutions, they are just different and both resolutions will be voted. And I beg you to start loading the various resolutions and we can vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u108	Vice-President, I agree. I'm sorry. At this point, I am putting forward a proposal for a procedure to vote on the proposed seven points and the eighth point that Mr Lochman has put forward in support of the Government of the Czech Republic. That's my procedural proposal. Please put him to a vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u109	Wait, you're proposing that your resolution be voted in order to vote on points? [[Member Mračková Vildumetz: Yes.]] I understand that. And then we would vote on two resolutions by Mr Lochman. You cannot refuse to put a resolution to the vote. It's not a procedure proposal. In the procedure, we can discuss whether your first and second resolutions will be voted. But we can't refuse here... you can't make a motion to refuse to vote on any proposal. That's ridiculous. [[A commotion in the hall.]] With priority rights, Mr. Vice-President Bartošek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u110	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I give a counterclaim against the procedure in order to vote after the points: the first 1 to 7 points, as the appellant, the rapporteur, has put forward, I apologize, and then the two points raised by Mr Lochman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u111	Mr Vice-President, it also seems logical to me. But I cannot even put it to the vote as a counter-proposal because I cannot identify myself with Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová's proposal because I consider it unvoting. It is not possible for the procedure to say that one of the resolutions tabled will not be voted on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u112	I agree with your opinion, and I therefore ask that it be given to vote on the procedure as I have proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u113	Yes. I'm asking if there's another proposal than Vice-President Bartošek has just made about the procedure? If that's not the case, I would recommend, given the debate, that we vote for the procedure. I'll rejoin so that my colleagues from the lobby can arrive. I'd better check you out, and I'm gonna ask you to log back in with your I.D. cards. The number of Members in the Chamber has slowed down. I'm just gonna repeat what we're gonna vote on. We will vote on the proposal for a procedure made by Vice-President Bartošek, in the form that we will first vote after the points on the proposals made by Mrs Mr Mračková Vildumetzová, and then we will vote on two further proposals by Mr Lochman. Is it clear to all of us what we are going to vote on? I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of the procedure? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number three, 147 Members have been voted in favour, 87 voting against 59. The draft procedure has been accepted. I will ask the rapporteur to guide us through the various motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u114	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. So the first motion for a resolution is: 'The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Minister of the Interior to submit an analysis on the basis of which individual branches have been selected for closure'.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u115	I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of such a motion for a resolution? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 4, 148 Members voted in favour of 63, against 47. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u116	Thank you. Another resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Interior Minister to postpone the closure of the Czech Post branches by at least six months until agreement is reached with the cities and municipalities concerned."
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u117	I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion for such a resolution? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number five, 148 Members voted in favour of 60, against 58. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u118	Third motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Minister of the Interior to submit clear conditions under which the cities concerned can maintain mail offices under the Post Partner project'.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u119	I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of such a proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 6, 149 Members voted in favour of 67, against 25. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u120	Thank you. Fourth motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Minister of the Interior to send funds to the Czech Post Office, to the state enterprise, in the form of compensation for the covid and refugee crisis."
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u121	I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of such a proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number seven, 149 Members have been voted in favour, 61 voting against 62. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u122	Thank you. Fifth motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Minister of the Interior to offer empty Czech Post buildings to cities and municipalities and, if necessary, to approve a free transfer by the Government of the Czech Republic in accordance with the law."
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u123	I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of such a motion for a resolution? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 8, 149 Members voted in favour, 62, against 23. The motion was denied. Another motion for a resolution, madam?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u124	I'll ask you to settle your peace in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u125	Yes. I will ask my colleagues to calm down so that we can hear the next motion for a resolution. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u126	"The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Minister of the Interior to submit an analysis and data on the advantages of transferring transport to private companies in 2022."
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u127	I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of such a proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 9, 150 Members have been voted in favour of 60, against 42. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u128	Seventh motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies submits, pursuant to § 17 para. 3 of Law No. 166/1993 Coll., on the Supreme Audit Office, as amended, complaint to the Supreme Audit Office for control of the activities of the Czech Post, s. p., and requests that it be carried out without delay."
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u129	Yes. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of such a motion for a resolution? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 10, 150 Members have been voted in favour, 64, against 7. [[The opposition MPs are banging the benches.]] The motion was denied. Continue with the other motions for resolutions, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u130	The eighth motion for a resolution, Mr Lochman: 'The Chamber of Deputies expresses its support for the Government of the Czech Republic', 'the Vice-President of the Government and the Interior Minister Vít Rakušan, as well as the leadership of the Post Office, s. p., in further transformation of the Post Office, s. p., in order to optimize and stabilise it financially'. [[Members in the left side of the hall humming.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u131	I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of such a motion for a resolution? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 11, 145 Members have been voted in, 79 voted in favour, against 60. [[Big buzz and applause from the left]] The motion was accepted. Madam, one last motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u132	I'm sorry. I thought the Prime Minister wanted something to vote on. [[Ms Schiller]] I'm sorry. The last, ninth point also presented by Mr Lochman: "The Chamber of Deputies submits, pursuant to § 17 para. 3 of Law No. 166/1993 Coll., on the Supreme Audit Office, as amended, a complaint to the Supreme Audit Office to control the activities of the Czech Post, s. p., and requests that it be carried out without undue delay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u133	I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of such a motion for a resolution? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 12, 150 Members have been voted in favour of 146, against 1. The motion was accepted. President Schillerová and subsequently President Fiala shall have priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u134	Thank you for the floor, sir -
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u135	Ladies and gentlemen - Madam President, just a moment, please. I will ask my colleagues to quiet down, or leave the hall, so that the rest of us can hear the performances with priority rights. Madam President, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u136	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I want to say - with the Rakušan for eternity and never again! [[The hustle and great applause of opposition Members.]] Stan won today, but the real mayors, they lost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u137	The President of the Fiala shall give the next priority.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u138	Let me just say two sentences, too. I'm sorry we couldn't convince the government coalition that the concept they've chosen to cancel the branches is wrong. On the other hand, I must say that approving the support of Minister Rakušan and Government at a time when you brought the Czech Post almost into insolvency is incredible! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-001-001.u139	I don't see anyone else claiming priority rights. I conclude the discussion of a point entitled Situation in the Czech Post. Before we break up, I'm gonna load one apology. Minister Martin Kupka apologizes from 19:00 for work reasons. And I have to remind you that... I now conclude the 60th meeting and remind you that tomorrow, Thursday, 20th April, the 63rd meeting will continue at 9 o'clock. That's all, have a good evening and see you tomorrow.
