ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-007-071.u1	71. Members of Josef Bernard, Markéta Pekarová Adamová, Olga Richterová, Martin Baxa and Jana Pastuchová's proposal to issue a law amending Act No. 89/2012 Sb., Civil Code, as amended, and other related laws /house print 241/ - first reading I merely point out that we have information here that the debate is to be merged. I'd like someone to design. We had and knew that the debate was to be merged. This is with the President's priority right. You mít the slovo, Madam President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-007-071.u2	Thank you for the floor, I'll just clarify. Yesterday, while President Benda suggested that we include paragraph 83, the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms for this press, and he said that he thought that it was precisely because debates should be merged, but of course nothing like this could be voted on yesterday or proposed because the point must be opened first. So if anyone is interested in merging the debate with these two prints, that is, paragraphs 71 and 83, it is necessary to propose that and we all decide that by voting, that is the standard procedure. But I'm not going to suggest that I be properly understood right now, I'm just specifying the position for those who might want to do so. I don't want to do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-007-071.u3	Thank you. Vice-President Bartošek reporting with priority.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-007-071.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Just to clarify, given the way you handled the meeting, I want to stand up for your progress, because I've given you this information. Of course, if there is no proposal to merge the debate, we will continue point by point. So you acted in line with the way we agreed, and I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-007-071.u5	It's okay, thank you. Mr. Chairman Benda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-007-071.u6	I'm so sorry, Madam President, I think she's speeding up the process a little bit, but I don't mind. It was usually customary for two introductory words to be presented to the press, and only then was it decided that the second press would be discussed together, but I am in favour. I think it deserves this press to be discussed in a merged debate with the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. I think these are things that are directly related to each other. It's part of some kind of, say, cultural battle so I don't use the popular word of cultural wars. I think it would be right for us to have a debate on the meaning, importance of marriage and registered partnership, or marriage for all, together, so I suggest we merge the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-007-071.u7	Thank you, so at this point, I will vote on the proposal to merge the debate. There's an interest in checking out, so I'm gonna ask you to sign in. I'm gonna rejoin you for now. And then we can vote, please. Initiating vote, asking, who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 141, registered 135, for was 52, against was 34. Result: rejected. I note that there will be no merged debate, and we can continue with the first point, and that is paragraph 71. Let me just repeat that this is a proposal by Members Bernard, Pekarová Adamová and Richterová, Baxa and Pastuchová, Members and Members, of course, to issue a law amending Act No. 89/2012 Coll., Civil Code, as amended, and other related laws, House press 241. We're at first reading. The Government's position was delivered as House press 241/1. I am now asking that Mr Josef Bernard present the proposal as the appellant. And I'll ask everyone in the room if they can keep it down. I ask you once again, colleagues, please, especially from the right side of the House, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-007-071.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that almost a year after the presentation of the present amendment to the Civil Code, which is registered in the system as the House Press 241, I can come before you as a representative of a group of five petitioners, namely Mrs Pekarová Adamová, Richterová and Pastuchová and Mrs Baxa, and open up today's debate. The same proposal was tabled in the previous parliamentary term, but at the end of the parliamentary term, it was said by the House's langur: it fell under the table. The basic principle of the proposed legislation is to give the same sex couples and their children the same dignity and protection of family life as the law provided to husbands and their children, thereby ensuring that they are equal not only in society but also in law. Therefore, the proposed legislation does not aim to grant registered partners rights other than or greater than those of spouses. [[13.10 hours]] Lesbian and gay registered couples have the same right under international law to protect family life as partners of the opposite sex and have the same right to protect associated values such as mutual care, family creation and child education. The proposed modification does not create any special regime for gays and lesbians, only the existing functioning system extends to them. This solves several fundamental problems. We will no longer distinguish between us and them and all relationships with the same legal dignity. Children raised in the same sex couples will cease to live in legal uncertainty. And it is also purely practical, such as community wealth, entitlement to certain social benefits, maintenance, inheritance and so on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-007-071.u9	I'd like everyone in the room to keep their voice down one more time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-007-071.u10	The proposed amendment to the Civil Code is simply that marriage will no longer be defined as a union between a man and a woman, but it should become a union of two people, regardless of their sex. Furthermore, the amendment to the Civil Code will be reflected in the adoption, joint adoption and joint foster arrangements, which are accessible only to spouses. A valid adjustment does not give registered couples such an option. The amendment also interferes with pension insurance laws, population records, birth numbers, matrices and specific health services. What happens to the registered partnership we currently have? Already registered partnerships will remain in force, but it will no longer be possible to conclude new ones in the future. The already concluded will be possible to change into a marriage by entering into a proper marriage. The fact is, one group of people is discriminated against, unable to marry, not having the same rights. I wish we could make this right in this parliamentary term. I, too, was raised in a family that didn't accept the LGBT community. During my life, however, I changed my mind, changed it especially under the influence of published scientific opinions, my friends, and confess, even under the influence of my wife. After all, according to surveys, 5.7 million of our fellow citizens support the adjustment of marriage, in which identical sex couples could enter, as well. Marriage for gay and lesbian couples is a question of human, not political. This has always been the case and has already been declared by clubs across almost the entire political spectrum in the last parliamentary term. Ladies and gentlemen, the issue of equalizing the rights of the same sex couples has been postponed for a long time. This proposal deserves to be dealt with in more detail by the expert committees of the House, and it deserves to be addressed primarily by those concerned. This is an adjustment that is common in a number of European Union countries and elsewhere. There is no reason why we should deny hundreds of thousands of gays and lesbians and their children the opportunity to have a family and to gain legal support for the certainty and stability that comes from marriage. If anyone in this country pays taxes, he is a rightful citizen of this country, he should also have equal treatment. This should apply to all couples and families. Thank you all for voting in favour of this proposal, and I believe that we will have a constructive debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-007-071.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Aleš Dufek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-007-071.u12	As part of my intelligence position, I'm going to try to get you through the technical part that's actually being proposed. My previous speaker was right that it is, of course, primarily Section 655 of the Civil Code and then the regulations relating to it, namely marriage. But if I take it one step at a time, the first thing that changes is Section 29 of the Civil Code. So far, we have an arrangement that when a person changes the sex while working in a properly married marriage, such a marriage ceases. The new proposal basically says that such a marriage does not end, and the other partner then, of course, if he does not want to remain in a given union, he must actually go the way of a classic official divorce of such a union. I will, of course, proceed to the main, Section 655 of the Civil Code. I would like to quote it here whole in the new version, because of course you only have the parliamentary proposal. In the new text, Section 655 will look like "marriage is a permanent union of two people created in a way that lays down this law. The main purpose of marriage is the establishment of a family, proper education of children and mutual support and assistance." That means I've read you the new version of Section 655. Indeed, Section 656, 679 is rather technical regarding invalid marriages, or certain irregularities, which would then arise in the course of adoption. I think this is probably enough from a technical point of view as an evaluation or emphasis of this proposal here. I will say the rest in the general debate that I am signing up for. I would also like to stress that the position of the Government of the Czech Republic in this matter is neutral.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-007-071.u13	Thank you. You have duly signed up in the debate, but before that, Vice-President Olga Richterová has been declared with priority rights. You mít the slovo, Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-007-071.u14	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you very much for the words of my previous speaker, who I think very sensitively described what many people have been going through in their lives by changing their minds. Something that, at some point in our life, we think we see so, and not otherwise, can simply change under the influence of a number of circumstances. And I, my fellow Members, who may not be sure of the importance of the standard we are discussing today, would like to invite you to try to think about it in this new way, in a way that is open to possible change. Why? Because it's a thing that has a number of planes, one legal one. We live in a country where all citizens and citizens are not yet equal rights, and it is purely determined by their innate sexual orientation. And the other plane is symbolic. The point is, it's this aspect of our being human, our humanity is often the foundation of some kind of trouble. For example, in neighbouring Slovakia and unfortunately because of the orientation of two young people there was a murder, a huge tragedy. And I think we also have the opportunity to symbolically contribute to the absence of such violence as far as possible. I'm also expressing myself for the pirát, not just for myself. I also express myself for a lot of liberal voters, as well as for a lot of voters such as other parties, but thinking that on this issue, on the issue of marriage for all, on the issue of equalizing the rights of all people in this country, it is possible to do something that does not hurt anyone and it will help a lot of people, simply the possibility of giving marriage to every rightful adult who wants to go with someone, bear the good and the bad, and this union in front of the authorities wants to have as a kind of legal certainty. [[13.20 hours]] And now for what is not possible today, what is not allowed to many people today. It's been said here, I'll say it on two examples, on two stories, so we can all imagine it. I think that one example is simple. Many of us know families where, for example, two mothers raise a child or two, three children together. It's common in our country, it's reality, and in a situation where one of them dies, for example, and that happens sometimes, it's sad, but that's life sometimes is, then those kids have no legal certainty if their biological mom died. Today, we do not even have the option of so-called acquiescence for the other registered partner or partner. So when children live in some stable union, those two people, the parents, take care of them, take them to school, bring them to school, prepare snacks, but also with them when they are sick, but when the child is already hospitalized, it is not possible for anyone who is not his legal representative, who is not his official biological parent, to be hospitalized, cannot guarantee it - it is only on good will, somewhere they will meet, but it is far from certain. So it takes a child's right to the presence of a legal representative who is disturbed. Or, unfortunately, the example -- even I have in my wider neighborhood -- sudden death, a situation where a 12-year-old boy remains, and now a second woman who has been raising him all her life, has to fight to be able to care for him. Why is that? Because we haven't even allowed it yet. For pirát, therefore, we want children to have equal rights in such situations, so that their parents, people who have cared for them for years, also have some legal certainty, and at the same time obligations, because that is the other side of the coin. Sometimes, even after all these years of care, someone walks away, and that's not fair. Once again, we are in a situation where we clearly say to a group of people: If you have entered into a formal union, marriage, you have accepted both rights and obligations. And then there's another group where the obligations aren't really imposed. Let's talk about it, too. And the second story I want to tell you, the second example. I have little children, many of you must also have small children, or maybe small grandchildren. Why am I talking about this? That's an age when we don't know what their orientation is yet. We just don't know how they're gonna have it in their lives, but I suppose we all wish our loved ones were happy. I certainly wish I could, and I don't know what it's gonna be. And what we're going to discuss here today is also an opportunity to know that we personally need to be confronted with something like this in a close circle - and it is very likely that one of us here in this House will want to enter into marriage - in order to know that we have equal rights and obligations, that we do not divide people into two categories, and that everyone in our country who decides to enter a formal marriage will want to have that opportunity in front of the authorities, both really and symbolically. So let me recap. Let's look at it with this look, our children's eyes, grandchildren's eyes, the fact that in practice many so-called rainbow families raise children. The reality in our society is, let's not close our eyes. I would like to help them so that children who grow up in a loving, stable and secure environment can also have legal certainty. It may be that there will be no difficult situation, that they will not be affected by the fact that they do not have the two legal representatives, but in many cases, unfortunately, they miss the other official parent, whether it is the situation of illness, hospitalization or, for example, that is, of course, in a smaller number of cases, thank God, but death. And to conclude. It is not about politics at all in my opinion, but it is about saying that it is a matter of dignity, human dignity, not having the two categories, not creating two categories when it is not necessary. It's not needed in 29 countries around the world. Catholic Ireland or Spain, too, has come to see why they divide people into two categories for legal reasons. And do you know what happened after the so-called marriage law was passed for all in these countries? No big deal, actually. Just a few thousand people then soon married and gradually those who want to get married continue to marry. And then one more thing happened that in countries that have adopted marriages for everyone, the suicide rate, especially for young people from the LGBT community, people who don't feel so sure about their role in this world, and in adolescence or early adulthood, is just hugely important when society sends out that signal: We offer you exactly the same future as everyone else, we don't care what your sexual orientation is, we take into account that you are the same people as all of us, you pay the same taxes, and when you have the same responsibilities, you also have equal rights. This happened in 29 countries around the world. I would very much like that to happen with us. Since 2018, we have been promoting this for the pirát here in the House. I am very pleased that it has come to the discussion today that I have a number of colleagues here who will also perform, I suppose with very similar arguments. But in conclusion, let's allow the state not to actually stick its nose in people's personal affairs, let it allow everyone to enter into the union, and when it does, let's not make it clear to everyone how it is personal - that's also a matter of privacy. If it is a marriage, it will simply be for all the easiest and symbolically the most beneficial and worthy. Thank you for being open and considering such views. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-007-071.u15	Thank you. Mr. Vice Prime Minister Vít Rakušan is registered with priority rights. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-007-071.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President, colleagues. Just a brief comment on the atmosphere of negotiations here in the Chamber of Deputies. We all feel that the views in the various parliamentary clubs are really different, and I would ask very much not to see this through the optics of any policy of division on where we sit in our parliamentary benches. It is an approach that we have within us, even if I, as the mayor's and independent, can say that we simply support the proposal for marriage approval for all. I understand that there has also been a discussion in our parliamentary club, there is certainly some opinional development of several people, but I also wanted to ask my colleagues - although I am not the President, I apologise for this: if we want to talk, let us speak to the microphone and let us respect that we have different opinions on this matter, let us not take part in the various comments that are being made here and there from the O.R. It is not a dignified debate, we have every opportunity to speak here at the speaker's counter and express our opinion on this matter. I simply and simply think that society is evolving. If we were ever talking about equal electoral rights in the 19th century, we viewed it as some kind of danuity that we almost saw as some distant goal that perhaps cannot even be achieved. If we look at women's electoral rights, a thing that, of course, and logically, is absolutely natural to us today, then we will find that in a civilised and exemplary country like Switzerland, it is quite a novelty that came only in the second half of the 20th century. And a number of such historical parallels and examples could be found. The society is simply evolving, it is evolving, and I think that our society has now reached a stage - and our public is looking at it mostly - when we are just ready to come up with a marriage institute that will be for everyone who is not just for heterosexual couples, it will also be the same sex for couples. [[13.30 hours]] Above all - and here we come to the debate that often appears - that, in some way, the model of a traditional family, a traditional marriage, has been questioned, as it has been understood in the long run, that we may be threatening the nature of a traditional marriage. I'm asking how? In what way? The fact that two people in the same sex marriage live their happy lives and possibly even children in this same sex marriage give sufficient life prospects to live in a happy and stable family, how does this endanger traditional marriage and the traditional family model? I never understood it, and I think that today's hasty civilization has many other kinds of threats to traditional, conservative families as it does to the role of parents, which are somehow defined in it. It's just that we have little time for our children, we leave them to the online world and so on. Those are the real risks that are here. We are in a society where divorce rates are somewhere around 50 percent, perhaps what threatens our traditional family, and we should be able to deal with these factors in our society and identify them as the real risks. If we have a percentage of the same sex couples, historically, there was a 4 percent talk, maybe today we're talking about 8 percent, I really don't know how 8 percent of the happy people in the same sex marriage could endanger my own marriage in any way. That's what we're putting ourselves at risk, but it's completely different things. I would like to ask you that this debate be open, that it be open to other opinions and that it be cultivated from the start, because that is the only way that we can come to this House of Deputies deciding. Just one comment. I would not wish this material to be discussed only in the Chamber of Deputies - that is, of course, legitimate, we have opened the point - I, for myself, for the Club of Mayors and Independents, would, of course, wish that this law had been passed. We are ready for the debate and we are ready to hear your opinions, of course, or to move somewhere in this debate, but I think that the way the bill is set up at the moment is absolutely simple. This proposal allows equality, this proposal prevents discrimination against a particular population group, and this proposal allows family happiness to people who have not been allowed until now. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-007-071.u17	Thank you, and I have a point of fact here at the moment, Mrs Nováková. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-007-071.u18	Thank you for the floor. I would like to follow up on the previous speaker, the minister, who spoke of the fact that being married is actually a basic qualification for us to be happy. And it's kind of weird that same-sex couples are extremely conservative, unlike half the couples in society, where the opinion prevails that it's at all that the institution of marriage is useless, and also those who... and some of us don't think so. For example, I would prefer that children who live in unmarried couples' families, there is an immense uncertainty, and yet almost - and now we know that it is 49 to 51 percent - yet those couples who do not want to be married say that marriage is an excess. So it's just... I've just noticed this strange aspect of how gay couples are in a special way conservative.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-007-071.u19	Thank you. In fact, Mrs Válková is also reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-007-071.u20	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, I didn't want to perform at all and take the floor to those who are duly enrolled in the discussion, but if we're going to be operating on the numbers that have been said here a little bit by my previous speaker, through you, Mrs Nováková, not very clearly for me, I will also argue with the numbers. I don't think it's necessary to compare the incomparable apples to the pears that we just heard here, but we can say one number, I had it ready for my performance, and only one number to accompany us in our thoughts. We are here because we have the mandate of those who elected us to represent their opinion. You know that I am also a petitioner and, very much since the beginning of the first parliamentary term, I have been trying to enforce the law, the constitutional law on a national referendum. We could ask there, but all citizens who really wish, but I see what Minister Rakušan here has also stressed, the development that has taken place in the last about eight years. When I asked the seniors if they wanted to anchor the institute of same-sex marriage, they didn't want it in the first term. Now I have a lot of percentages, and I don't have representative research, so I'm not gonna say how many, I'm sure there aren't a half majority of them, and seniors 65+ but they already have grandchildren, they have children in their kinship, offspring who live in a way they're not afraid to live anymore, which means they're in a partnership with someone who's from that community, either gay or lesbian, and they know they're not happy, so it's changing. And we currently have 65 percent of Čech and Češka who agree to let gays and lesbian couples be married. By the way, that's about five million voters and voters. [[President: Madam, two minutes have passed.]] Yes, I quit, I just wanted to point out that we have the numbers at our disposal, and, of course, in my speech, I will present them all in detail. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-007-071.u21	Thank you. As there is no further claim with the facts, I will ask Mrs Urbanová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-007-071.u22	Good day, colleagues, colleagues. We all know that here we are starting to discuss something that affects us all very personally, and it goes far beyond disputes that may contain either rational or sometimes irrational pros and cons. There'll always be emotions in it. I'm quite nervous about the speech now, too, because I'm going to be personal, and I don't believe that anyone could put their values and conscience aside in the vote. Of course, life experiences play a big role. Maybe you'll be laughing at the fact that I'm talking about life experience here, one of the youngest Members, but I'll try to give you my story. The reason I support marriage for everyone is because I consider the same sexual couples to be exactly the same couples as the heterosexual ones. It doesn't make any difference. It's not about sex, although the debates often lead to it, and frankly, they're not very dignified. It's about love, it's about who people like, who they want to spend time with, who they want to live with. We're not gonna stop it, these people are gonna live together, even in a pile. But if we are traditionalists, if we want the marriage bond to have meaning for people, we should allow them to live in such a union with all the rights and obligations that belong to it. I'm not very traditional, I guess it's also a generational thing where my generation doesn't work so hard for the quote paper, and certainly not very soon. With me, it's connected to another life experience, which is my parents' divorce. I was very young, and I was lucky enough that my mom started a new family with my stepdad, so today at the age of 32 I can say that I have two dads. I love both of them, I have a slightly different relationship with each of them, given how much time I've spent with them, but I love both of them, and they both love me - regardless of genes. In this family, I have sisters - stepdaughter, certainly, we don't have the same biological parents, but I don't really talk about them as stepdaughters, because they're my sisters. I find it bizarre, on the one hand, to talk about being an important family to someone. It's also worth value to me, I respect it because I know how difficult it is to move in these often complex relationships, how rare it is when someone really likes you, even though they don't have to - and then on the other hand, to say that if someone isn't someone's own child, it means that it's not a complete or traditional family, that it's somehow broken, that it's probably damaged goods. But what other family is great than the one full of love? We're dealing with people who would like to give it to children instead of dealing with child abuse, the situation of those who really live in a violent family that isn't good for their future. We often leave such children in those families and do not help them. Marriage doesn't always automatically start a family. Is it unfulfilled? Does this mean that it is wrong that it has failed to fulfil a social role? I thought that such thinking was outdone, volumes to get an apartment - which, by the way, was the case of my parents, or the creation of a family because of a parental contribution. That's not what people who run our state should want. Where's the thought of just being good and full and, above all, free to live here? Free in terms of choice. If I don't want to have kids, I won't have them. If I want to live with a woman, I'll live with her. Let me formalize this union just to create a family. [[13.40 hours]] I understand that there are a lot of people here who disagree with my view, and I can understand that the world is simply not black and white. We'll have time for the debate at second reading, but now it's time to name the basis. Same sexual couples don't have the same rights in this company as heterosexual couples. Let's make this right, please. Let's talk about how we're gonna fix this at second reading, even if I'm always defending zero discrimination. And one last thing. Please, let's not be undignified in this next debate. I was talking about my experience here, I'm convinced that the ideal family here in this room has a large minority of us. Personally, it concerns me to talk about whether or not it is possible to have two fathers when I just have that experience. I've already recorded some homophobic rumors, and it's really not necessary. This will not affect the vote, and it may not be necessary to insult someone to be in the media. Well, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-007-071.u23	Thank you, and with priority rights, the rapporteur is reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-007-071.u24	I'm now in the early stages of the role of some diaboli attorney here against the motion that was made. Of course I see these stories here, I see some personal attitudes here, but I want to say that when they say A, I have to say B. I agree with what I think the Vice-President of the House has said here, that this really has a great meaning, here what we are discussing, because in my opinion it is really the biggest change in private law since probably 1811, because even the old Austrian Civil Code was built on the fact that we basically have a mother, a father and a child who makes up a family. And then there were all these different facts, other rights and rights, and that's actually how it worked for civil law, and we're actually going into this, and we're changing it completely differently after 212 years, really completely different. One comment. And the second point I have here. It is logical, of course, that, in some way, we subservient the relationships of the same sexes to the civil code, so they have the right to the family, so I quoted the whole of Section 655, and the right to have legally children. That means let's say this B right over here. That means it's about the kids at this point, that we're creating a father-father-child model, a mother-mother-child, by this approval of this law here. And I personally believe that it's to consider that it's not as one-sided as the previous speakers said. I think that even the child has the right to know his biological parents, to know his origins, to know where his roots are, who his mother was, who his father was, because I don't know if there are any new findings in biology that two sperms can produce a human or possibly two eggs. So, please, I'm going to point out this rationally here as constantly here at the stories that I understand, of course. But the objective reality is slightly shifted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-007-071.u25	Thank you and another duly signed up for the discussion is Mrs Michaela Šebelová. I'm gonna have to stop at quarter quarter, so we've got two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-007-071.u26	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Since I will have to interrupt my speech, I will basically only partially respond to the previous speaker, and also very personally, because I am married, I am heterosexually focused, but I can no longer have children. I can't have children anymore, and yet, if I divorce my husband, I will be allowed to marry again. As mayor of the village, I married dozens of couples who were older, who were married a second time, a third time, and were married precisely because they wanted to have their rights clarified in the family and so on. And it was also obvious that biologically they would never be able to have children again, and yet our law allows these couples to enter into this marriage union. And I really don't see the difference. I don't think it's good to combine biology in this debate, because of course, yes, we agree that a child will be... I don't think that's what we need to say here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, do we? [[Fun in the hall.]] But at the same time, we're giving those kids the family away. And are we sure that in all the married couples, in all the families they are today, those children are raised by their biological parents? I don't think we have that certainty, and that's what we need to point out. And I would normally start my speech a little differently, but I'll probably continue it tomorrow, because my story is a little different, and I'd like to talk about the fact that we really need to start talking about people, start seeing that LGBT - for me it's not a community. It's not people who live in a closed place... [[President: Madam, it is time.]] Okay, thank you. I'll continue tomorrow.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-007-071.u27	Thank you. Since we have fixed voting points at 13.45, I am interrupting point 71 and opening point number
