ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening another meeting on the 65th session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I warmly welcome you all here. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you all out and ask you all to sign up with your ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who's asking for a replacement card. I will also say that the following Members have asked to apologise for their absence to the hearing: President Markéta Pekarová Adamová apologizes for the whole working day for reasons of work, Jaroslav Bašta for the whole day for health reasons, Jana Berkovcová from 9.30 to 12 o'clock for health reasons, Jan Hofmann from the whole day for personal reasons, Jakub Janda from the whole day for personal reasons, Josef Kott from 9.15 to 13.45 o'clock for work reasons, Karel Krejza from the whole day for the whole day without stating the reason, Jan Lacina from the whole day for the whole day for foreign reasons, Jakub Michálek from the whole day for reasons of procedure, Marie Pošarová from the whole day for health reasons, David Pražák from the whole day for medical reasons, Petra Quittová for the whole day for working reasons, Pavel Svoboda until 9.30 o'clock for working reasons, Antonín Tesařík for the whole day for medical reasons, Karel Tureček. Furthermore, Prime Minister Petr Fiala apologizes from the members of the government within 12 hours for working reasons, Ivan Bartoš from the whole day of the meeting due to foreign travel, MikuláMikuláš Bek from the whole day of the meeting for working reasons, Martin Dvořák from the whole day of the meeting for personal reasons, Petr Hladík from the whole day of the meeting for working reasons, Jan Lipavskýý from the whole day of the meeting due to foreign travel, Zdeněk Nekula from the whole day of the meeting for health reasons, Jozef Síkela from the whole day for working reasons, Michal Šalomoun from 12 hours for working reasons and Vlastimil Válek until 10.30 hours for working reasons. That would be an apology for now. Today's meeting should begin by discussing the fixed points of the Law block at first reading, in the order proposed by the Gremium. These are the following points: paragraph 18, Amendment to the Investment Incentives Act. I'm gonna have to ask you to lower your voice in the O.R. I'm gonna ask you once again to keep the room down from the left side. Thank you, thank you very much. And now to recapitulate the points: paragraph 18; then paragraph 19, amendment to the Line Act; paragraph 21, House Press 430, amendment to the Law on the Enforcement of Property and Things in Criminal Procedure; paragraph 23, House Press 435, amendment to the Act on Recovery Procedures; and then paragraphs 71, Amendment to the Civil Code, and 83, Proposal for a Constitutional Act amending the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. If all the fixed points were discussed, we would continue to discuss further points from the Law block at first reading, namely point 26 et seq. I'm gonna ask you to keep it down again. I know the beginnings are hard, I'm gonna ask you one more time. Thank you very much. Let me remind you that at 12 o'clock, we fixed point 22. It's the House Press 431, the amendment to the Matrics Act. Then, at 13.45, we have a fixed election point of 114 to 117. There is now room for any amendments to the approved agenda. I'm asking Mr. Excellent, do I have his application here to speak with priority rights? It's logged in. Isn't that right? Isn't that right? The President is interested in speaking. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-000-000.u2	Good morning, Madam Vice-President, gentlemen, two ministers, colleagues, I am now and on the basis of some quick consultation with the club presidents as well as with the Vice-President, because yesterday we interrupted the meeting with the House Press 409, which is an amendment to the Act on Investment Incentives, and Minister Síkela is currently fulfilling his duties as Minister of Industry and Trade at the Chamber of Commerce meeting, which was long-term planned, and I understand that there have been some questions from Members across the clubs, so I would ask that, as part of the amendment to today's programme, we should move the negotiation of the House Press 409, first reading, item 18 of the original proposal for the programme, before yesterday's amendment to the Civil Code, number 24, so that this press, which is under discussion, means the House press 409, first reading, the amendment to the Act on Investment Incentives, to discuss today, before opening paragraph 241 - the House Press. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-000-000.u3	Thank you. So you actually want to place it firmly in point 23, in front of point 71. Thank you. Motion registered. I wonder if anyone else wants to make a motion to change the show? If this is not the case, I shall call on my fellow Members from the lobby to comment on the proposal by voting. I will repeat once again what we will be voting on. It is proposed that item 18, House Press 409, on investment incentives, be placed firmly today, namely 23 before paragraph 71, which is an amendment to the Civil Code. It is the President's proposal to the Excellent. The numbers have stabilized. I am opening the vote on this proposal. Who's in? Let him push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 126, 140 Members voted, in favour of 133, against 1. The result is that this proposal has been adopted. This point was firmly placed before point 71. We will now begin the discussion of the point.
