ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-001-136.u1	136. Responses of members of the Government to written interpelations On the agenda of the 50th meeting, a total of six responses were submitted to the interpelations that Members were not satisfied with. For this reason, they have requested to be placed on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies. I draw all Members' attention to the provisions of § 112 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, which reads: "Unless an Interpelling Member is present at a meeting of the House, there shall be no debate on the response to its intervention, and the House shall not deliver an opinion on it or further discuss it.' We would now proceed to discuss the answers to the written interpelations. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek responded to Mr Kamal Farhan's interview on waiting times for scheduled performances. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press 319. The discussion of this response was suspended on 1 December 2022 in the presence of Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek. I see the Minister here, so will we continue the debate and ask if anyone is joining the debate? Mr. Farhan, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-001-136.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I would like to present today a written interview, which I announced a few months ago. Unfortunately, it didn't get to her, and that's why we're getting to her today. It concerned waiting times for Czech patients. I am disappointed in this answer I received from the Minister. I asked him here how the Ministry monitored and evaluated the waiting times for planned performances and how it would proceed to shorten these waiting times. In response to my written interview, it says black and white: "The Ministry of Health does not evaluate waiting times. The obligation to report waiting periods to the Ministry of Health is not stipulated.' Furthermore, the Ministry divorces that health insurance companies, the Institute of Health Information and Statistics should do this and that the matter of shortening waiting periods for operations for Czech patients will not be dealt with in the future. I'd say for a guy like me who's read a lot of bureaucratic letters and excuses, this strong coffee too. So, Minister, I would like to ask you about the Chamber of Deputies plenary: Do you intend to continue to maintain your position that you are indifferent to waiting times for surgery for patients, that you will no longer follow them, that you will no longer evaluate them, that you are not going to monitor how long the waiting times are? What efforts will you make as Minister of Health to shorten these waiting times? That's my first question, actually. What activities will you develop to monitor this, or do you insist on not monitoring or evaluating it? [[9.10 hours]] The second additional question is: Do you know the wording of the competence law, where it is said that the Ministry of Health is the central body of the state administration for health services, diagnosis and treatment of people? Even in this case, I think it follows that this information, this data, you should look at it, you should follow it and you should do so. Third question: Do you not think that early medical performance is an essential parameter of the availability of medical care? And last: Do you not think that interest in monitoring and evaluating this data about excessive long waiting times at central level requires the Ministry not only a competence law but at least a healthy common sense that this data affects the health of Czech patients and the overall health system of the Czech Republic? I believe that the task of the Ministry of Health and of the Minister is to monitor waiting times for health performance and, in the event of an adverse condition, to intervene - even due to the competence law. That the D.O.D. doesn't know that the Ministry isn't watching, and that the D.O.D. isn't going to monitor it, which was the answer in a written interview, let alone deal with it, is a shocking room for me. Thank you if you answer these three additional questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-001-136.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The Minister is reporting for the debate. And before I give him my word, I have a message. Mr. Jiří Hájek cancels his apology. Colleagues, colleagues, please remain calm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-001-136.u4	Madam President, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, the Ministry of Health and my predecessors, including Vojtěch Adam and all the five ministers who were there during the ANO regime, have never followed this data. This is due to legislation, which, through Madam President, Mr Farhan, who worked at the Ministry, knows very well. Health insurance companies have this competence, and I will be happy when the Chamber of Deputies changes certain competences and gives stronger tools to the Ministry of Health so that we can better monitor what is happening to health care in the Czech Republic. Last year, before I joined, the Ministry of Health had no idea - did not know, I repeat it, no-tu-shi-lo - where we had doctors in the Czech Republic, in what number, did not know, had no idea how many graduates of medical faculties remained, applications for accreditation and certificates were submitted only in writing, some waited up to four years for approval. The ministry had absolutely no statistics and analysis on how many practitioners there are, how many adults there are, for children and adolescents. These analyses are gradually being put together by the Ministry, we have gradually linked the data, and here it is also necessary to thank my predecessors, who have started doing this activity in a certain way. We started putting together data, so today we have a clear idea of how many patients registered with the doctor. We have an accurate idea of the structure of the doctors, where the doctors are, and based on a debate with the insurance companies, how the law allows us to do so, and on the basis of a debate with relevant professional organisations and representatives of doctors, we want to support residential sites in regions where these doctors are missing or where a large number of patients are registered with one doctor. But without these data, without these analyses, Professor Dušek has repeatedly warned us about this on the Health Committee in previous years, and even in previous and so on, so without these analyses we are unable to move on. Of course, the Ministry of Health has information from health insurance companies, from individual health insurance companies about how long waiting times are for their examinations, and has this information about directly managed organizations. However, no legislative regulation allows this data to be requested from other bodies which are not directly managed by the Ministry of Health, and I would also like to change this, because I completely agree with your assistance, Madam President, with Mr Farhan, that it is essential that the Ministry of Health has precise analytical data, so that we can also direct the payment decree where there is good quality, good accessibility, so that we can improve availability where this is not the case by means of a payment decree. Without these analytical data, this is not possible, and there will be a need to make legislative changes in at least one law. I agree that at present, especially after there was a period where basically all health care focused mainly on the solution of the covid - and with that no one was able to do anything, of course, it is nobody's fault, it is the virus's fault - so not only the ordering times for screening tests have been extended, but the ordering times for planned examinations have been extended, whether they are hip surgery, knee joints and a number of other scheduled performances. What the Ministry of Health could have done and, of course, what it did, in agreement with insurance companies, we targeted the money so that the planned performances were not compromised by the number of performances performed. So the health care facility can do as much as it can, and they're all paid for. We've also stopped any limits on screening tests, they haven't been there before, but we've been stimulating the workplaces to increase their capacity. In direct-controlled organizations, some workplaces have reached 130 to 140 percent of their performance compared to the pre-conventional years and have gradually started to shorten the dates of planned examinations as well as screening examinations. Unfortunately, screening tests are a bigger problem than planned, because during those two years, because the intervals for mammographic screening, for example, are two years, and for some other screenings there are also intervals, we dropped out - and again, it's nobody's fault - we dropped one large group of women from screening, and now we have to catch up on all of this in some way. This is a really big problem, and part of those patients are used to taking screening tests, simply because their availability has deteriorated significantly. Therefore, in cooperation with VZP we launched a campaign and targeted invitation of patients to screenings. This means summing up: for the planned examinations, at least in directly managed organisations and from the data available from insurance companies - and here I warmly ask all colleagues who are members of the board of directors to be very consistent in this regard and to want these data from the relevant insurance companies on the board - i.e. in this respect the deadlines are reduced, at least in directly managed organisations, and the payment decree will continue this year in this respect. This too was why we strengthened the performances that are done in centers, planned performances, and why we strengthened one day's surgery. Next year we would like to strengthen the whole day's medicine. This could lead to further shortening of ordering times for scheduled performances. The situation in screening is much more complicated. It is not an absolute question of money, because money is enough for screening performances. It is not surprisingly even a major problem of capacitance, although for some screening programs such as colorectal cancer, this capacitive reason may be, but it is mainly the reason that interest in screenings has deteriorated, again from the logic of the matter, because two years, almost two and a half years, many workplaces have fallen out of screening. So if I sum up: I am ready and happy in cooperation with the Health Committee - and here I thank you very much, through your, Madam President, Mr Farhan, and I believe that he will be involved, because I know that he is intensively communicating with Professor Dušek, that is, I would very much like to submit legislation in cooperation with the Health Committee, which, on the one hand, will extend the number of registers from the Ministry of Health so that we can monitor the other parameters, and I will appreciate it when any stimulus comes from the left or right or the middle to the next parameters that we should monitor and evaluate. I am prepared, if the Health Committee considers this appropriate, to include regular information from the data that the Ministry of Health has on the Health Committee, and we can agree that through the office of health insurance companies, which is, say, a body that concentrates health insurance companies, we will want this data far more closely from health insurance companies. But I repeat, there is no obligation at present to any medical facility, and we do not have the option without amending the law to introduce this obligation, to report a number of data, including those of ordering times for scheduled performances. We may want this obligation or this information from directly managed organizations, but we have no legitimate way of requiring these reports from other health establishments. And yes, I agree with Mr Farhan, by your means, Madam President, it is a mistake, I consider it a mistake, and I will be very happy to approve legislative amendments as quickly as possible in cooperation with the Chamber of Deputies so that I can receive these reports. I consider this important not only to me, but to anyone who will be my follower or follower at the Ministry of Health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-001-136.u5	Thank you, Minister. Mr Farhan is also reporting for the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-001-136.u6	Thank you for your answer, Minister. I'd just briefly sum it up and try not to escalate it. The first thing is, if I go back to my questions. In the first part you did not answer or answer my questions, in the second part you more or less expanded them. Why I gave the written interview is because, in fact, the letter you sent was that the Ministry - I quote: "The Ministry of Health does not evaluate waiting times. The obligation to report waiting periods at the Ministry of Health is not established.' Yeah, so I'm here based on this response from you, I've submitted this written interpelation to move on and move on a little bit further. I'm sure we can agree that the data is important, because otherwise, as a central government authority, you wouldn't be able to interfere, you wouldn't be able to control it, and de facto the law of competence would be very controversial. And like I said, I'm not gonna escalate it anymore. I'm glad I opened this subject up to you to answer that question. I believe you will look into this, but I will nevertheless ask you, Madam President, that the Chamber of Deputies vote against this response given what the Ministry of Health has responded to my written interpelation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-001-136.u7	Thank you. I've noted your proposal. Mr. Jiří Mašek came forward with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-001-136.u8	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister. So I applied before Mr Farhan's second contribution, so I will repeat myself a bit. Mr. Minister, I find it incredible that you will answer in writing for the Ministry that you have no interest in time or dates for examination or treatment, or the Ministry has no interest in waiting times in the past, currently not interested in them, nor are you going to deal with them in the future. Today, you answered under the weight of what Kamal Farhan said, through the President, a little differently, you've already modified it, modified it. You answer quite a bit of awkwardly simple questions, but I have to turn to you in that waiting time is often crucial for patients and can also fall out of the so-called therapeutic window, which you know, and the treatment may be late, and you are the minister who left 14 billion in the budget for health care. Of course, you're gonna dump it on health insurance. The health insurance companies are keeping an eye on the frequencies, but they're also health insurance payers, so they balance it out. But the fact that individual health care facilities can shift, prolong those terms, that's what's going on. As a physician, I know what the terms for individual diagnostic examinations are, or what the waiting times for surgery are, and they don't go short. And it really has something to do with health finances. We pointed that out, in our government, it was more than 100 billion extra to health care over four years, to health insurance. We were pointing out that the money might be missing. I am absolutely terrified that the Ministry is not actually following the essential parameters that the Minister of the New Government could argue that this is not happening. [[Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-001-136.u9	Thank you for keeping time, and I apologize for overlooking your application for a factual remark. The Minister has signed up for the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-001-136.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. I always appreciate constructive debate, but I dare to repeat it slowly and clearly once again. None of my predecessors, nor five ministers in the last parliamentary term, five health ministers, followed and did not indicate that they wanted to follow the data on planned performances. What I've inherited is what I've got, and I've been working hard to change it for a year. Of course, it is necessary to change the legislation on registers, but if you remember and are correct, let us remember a very turbulent debate about the Dot, which is related to the registers. We do not have the law, and we are therefore dependent on what the Office for Personal Data Protection allows or does not allow us to monitor. That is why I had to set up a health register law, which is why since January the Ministry of Health or since March is preparing this law. And I repeat, it is no one's fault, because none of the ministers had this ambition after 1989. It's really nobody's fault, it's not any political party's fault, it's just a situation. Covid taught us a lot, and he taught us that we need to follow these data very carefully and clearly tell which data we will actually follow. I'm looking forward to another interview, I suppose it will, now we'll talk about diagnostics. Now we're talking about planned performances from insurance companies' data, and I'm really only depending on the data I get from insurance companies. I can either trust them or I can't, but I have no legislative option to verify whether the data is correct. And if any insurance company refuses to give it to me, I have no way of getting the data from the insurance company. This means, from the data from insurance companies, from the largest, from the General Health Insurance Company, where the strength of the state is the largest, though not the majority, I have data which clearly say that we have managed to significantly reduce the waiting time to planned performances compared to the previous year, i.e. 2021. The shortening is bigger than I hoped, but yes, we still haven't made it to the level of 2019. However, I hope that every one of you, who is a doctor here, a paramedic, and I think that everyone, every MP, will realise that within one year, it is almost impossible when, at least three months of this year, we have been dealing with a very strong wave of omicron. The fact is, and for that, thank you very much for the need to adopt certain laws, namely the EU registers and the monitoring of other data. I realize that the Chamber of Deputies across the political spectrum, as well as the Senate, will probably not vote entirely unanimously because there are two worlds meeting here. The first world is to monitor as much data as possible, and that is the world that is mine, so that we can respond accordingly. The second world is: we have nothing to monitor data from patients unless the patient agrees in advance, which is also a legitimate world, a GDPR world, a world of personal data protection, and it is a world that is absolutely, let's say, okay. And I would very much like to ask again that, at the level of the Health Committee, we should be very correct - and we will discuss this when the Health Committee is at the Ministry - discussing what data to monitor, because these are not data for the War, these are not data for the Ministry of Health, but these are data for patients and Czech health care regardless of who will lead the Ministry of Health, regardless of which party wins the election. These are data that are absolutely essential for us to be able to centrally manage health care, I think we can all agree on that. And that we weren't supposed to get this data basically by last year, we didn't have legislative standards for that, we probably agree. Well, let's change the situation together, but unfortunately what's in the answer is a sad fact. The D.O.D. doesn't follow the data, it hasn't followed it, and it has no chance of tracking it. That's reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-001-136.u11	Thank you, Minister. Mr Zlínský has now applied to the factual remark. Before I give him the floor, I will read the apologies: Brož Lubomír apologizes throughout the day for health reasons, Heller Šimon within 10 hours without giving any reason and Nacher Patrik from 13:00 to 16:00 for work reasons. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-001-136.u12	Madam President, thank you for the floor. I will contact the Minister by your means, because at the last reply he probably answered what I wanted to ask because he was telling or saying that it is problematic to get some information about how many doctors we have, how they are allocated in the area of our Republic, how many registered patients they have. I was very surprised because I thought that we were living in an information society, that this data is owned by insurance companies and possibly by the UHIS, so in this case it was shocking for me that such simple data could not be obtained by the Ministry of Health in any way. He basically replied that he wasn't interested, which is also shocking to me that they weren't thinking about it in advance. [[9.30 hours]] Furthermore, I would like to ask the Minister, by your means, how the Minister stands up to the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the European Union on the European space for health data, because there this issue is being addressed in some way in depth. And it is the issue of sensitive medical data, when the patient will not actually be able to decide that his data, although depersonalized or pseudopersonalized, will go into digital space, that raises a lot of questions about how he will deal with it in the future. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-001-136.u13	Thank you for keeping time. And before I give another word to the Minister, I have another factual one here, and that is - Mr Janulík, you are only after Mr Farhan, so please bear with me. Mr Farhan - you are disturbing factually, yes, so Mr Janulík now has the opportunity to make a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-001-136.u14	Thank you for your word, good day, everyone. Well, I'm not gonna prolong it. Look, the minister here said no one ever looked into it. He's basically into the covide -- obviously speaking from the point of view of the field doctor who's in the ambulance -- basically there was no reason. We as doctors know very well that watching waiting times in the Czech Republic would sometimes - folklore flashed somewhere in the media, but when you compared it to abroad, it was absolutely incomparable. We knew well that in the advanced states around us is waiting for an endoprosthetic for two years, and it has its reasons. And now and then, some editor's gonna write something, some scream, as expected. It is also expected for the reason that the patient could lose weight, lose weight, and so on and so on and so forth. So there was no reason to basically watch it. But we've all gotten used to it, the whole company, all the patients, the doctors, we've all gotten used to it, and all of a sudden it's getting longer. Why? Because my business covide wasn't operated on. Now we've released x, so the insurance companies are coming in, I'm not gonna be specific, I'm totally from other states, and they want to be operated on. [[unintelligible]] I say, wait a minute, we didn't operate on our people, and now all of a sudden, I've got them here, some in the quote list waiting list. And we're not inflatable, so it all has a kind of logical capacity. One can operate, or one can only - we don't do 24 hours a day and so on, or the day has only 24 hours in quotes and the month has 720 hours, so that's the natural limit. But what really bothers me is that, like, if we were talking about the 14 billion, if the insurance companies had the money, what would the insurance companies do with it? Well, they'd have to send them out, they'd send them to a medical facility, they could put them on salaries and hire a little more people, more paramedics, so that capacity would be a little bit better. But they are, but not in our country, but in other states. [[Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-001-136.u15	Thank you. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-001-136.u16	Now it was a whole series of questions, so I will try very - if possible - briefly answer. All the time, Madam President, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, I will still try to be rational, and if I can do just a little bit, the medical level, because even though I am here as a minister, I am still a professor of radiology and a doctor. Technically, I certainly didn't say, through you, Mr. Ambassador, that I don't know the term you used right now, but it wasn't an interest or how it was... previous ministries. It's not like that, he wasn't the reason. And here, by your means, I completely agree with Mr Janulík, in fact, there was no reason to follow the data like this. But there was an exception, Minister Heger, if you recall, he introduced a kind of parameter to monitor the ordering times with imaging methods, and the parameter turned out to be completely pointless over time. And today maybe in the context of the interpellation, if we can get to it, Mr Farhan, by your means, we can explain why. What Mr Janulík has said here, by your means, about the planned performances is very true. If we just say one of those planned performances, and now I'm not really talking politically, but I'm talking like a doctor and we're talking about a hip joint, a very well-known performance, we have a group of patients who are acute, who need that performance just because they break their hip necks and go into surgery acutely. These terms don't make sense to watch because an acute patient is supposed to have surgery acutely. But then there's the whole number of patients who have the performance planned. Probably many of you know if one of your orthopedic colleagues were here, it would explain much more than I do, that the planning is both based on a scoring system based on a CT finding, an X-ray, or a CT finding, but an X-ray plus magnetic resonance imaging, and which evaluates the extent of hip arthritis there. It's also based on the patient's subjective feelings, i.e. the pain, and the pain is objectified by some parameters. So I have two patients who come to the orthopedic doctor, both of them have hip arthrosis, and both of them will eventually come to have a hip replacement, and their condition will require an exchange. And now, of course, that one patient in that scoring system is going to be lower, and the other one will be higher, of course. Of course, an earlier term will be given to a patient who is higher in the scoring system, and later to the one who is in the scoring system lower. Therefore, it is, of course, optimal for a patient who has problems with hip joints, who has any pain that has any finding, to be included in something called waiting list, and on that waiting sheet can wait for the surgery for maybe ten years, can wait quite a long time. A very similar situation is with patients from another category, namely patients who are waiting for a liver transplant, when a patient who has a liver finding, typically liver cirrhosis, at stage B, and is very likely to gradually reach a liver transplant, gets a waiting list, is monitored. But two very similar patients who get on that list may have a completely different term, not only according to liver availability, but mainly according to how the finding develops. And it's very difficult to follow the terms, because you're actually mixed with a very purely medical criterion, the patient's condition, the finding on objective imaging methods and the patient's subjective difficulties, with what kind of in advance he's actually going to put himself on the waiting list. That means you can have a patient waiting, say, four years for a hip implant and it's in that list of waiting sheets, and, yes, it's four years old waiting for that hip joint. But it doesn't actually say anything about the actual length of waiting, because he's waiting just because his condition has grown up in, like, three, four years to that stage, which orthopedics will assess based on these objective criteria. That means, here I would like to stand up for all my predecessors, no matter what political party they were, that it's not quite easy to set the parameters. And through you, Mr. Ambassador, what has changed in the system at the time of the covid. And by this I answer, by your means, and by Mr Janulík. It changed that we got used to Professor Dušek's daily report, which is extremely detailed. And now we would like similar detailed information on other diseases, such as viral diseases. But legislation, as it was adopted at the time of the covid, was adopted fairly hectically. Again, it's no one's fault, because she had to react quickly to an acute situation, and she's not backed up by a big law. Remember our debates about the crisis law with the then Interior Minister that it was necessary to deal with the crisis law, eventually it was pandemic. As a result, we need to adopt a register law, a health register. This is a condition of the Office for Personal Data Protection. Actually, I've been discussing that for almost six months. On this basis, we have to say professionally, politically, what we actually want to follow, because each of these figures is a burden, of course, for a medical facility to report on, what we want to watch for, and if we can evaluate it. [[9.40 hours]] Which brings me to the last part of the European Health Data Space, that is to say, some kind of data sharing. We share data in the Czech Republic. We share them even maybe one of the most in Europe if I overdo it, in case of image documentation. What is in the Czech Republic and Slovakia, because it is a joint project of these two countries, and is nowhere else in the world, is that I can immediately send image documentation immediately from any hospital, from any medical facility in the Czech Republic or Slovakia, regardless of whether it is state, urban, regional, private, virtually online. I can get documentation from any patient, if the patient agrees, from the hospital in Košice and get it immediately at the hospital in IKEM, which simplifies the care of acute patients terribly. The project's been going on for 15 years. I once participated in this project, then as an academic, at Masaryk University, I was one of the coordinators, and it wasn't a political project. The connection is given by two systems. One is an academic system, the other is a medical system. Both of these systems are extremely cheap, so practical doctors, virtually anyone, can get involved. And in this way, we created a long time ago in the Czech Republic, for your idea, a very wide five-way highway in two ways, when we are still using one lane, and not enough. We could use the four other free lanes to send other medical documentation in the same way if we succeed - and I apologize for keeping you professionally explaining, but I very much appreciate that you are here in such a number and are willing to listen to it - if we were able to standardize medical documentation, if, for example, the HL7 or DASTA format were Czech standards, as it is everywhere in the world, and where throughout Europe these standards are in the law or in the decree, but we do not have them anywhere at all. Therefore, the first thing I did was order it by methodical direction, and I would like us to issue this by at least a decree, better by law, which is very complicated, because we must first have a precisely mapped-out situation in medical facilities. And how this relates to European Health Data Space. From the general level of European Health Data Space, i.e. the possibility that if a Czech citizen moves to a month, to two, to six months in Portugal, his medical documentation will follow him, and there he will be able to continue the treatment in a summary, or, on the contrary, when a foreigner from the European Union comes here, any doctor, such as Dr. Janulík, or you, will be able to have his documentation, seems like a good idea. It is also a useful idea for scientific institutions to cooperate with these data, because in rare diseases, where the absolute number of patients in Europe is in tens of thousands, it is not possible to build a clinical study other than at a European level and otherwise it is not possible to set up optimal treatment protocols for these rare diseases. Of course, here the pharmaceutical and medical industry sees some space for use, a very interesting space for use. From a practical point of view - what this means to us. It is an excellent idea that the Czech Republic has supported, and we have moved on with two points within the Presidency. But I had one big "but" with such a high-hanging finger: we must not allow it to mean financial costs for individual countries, because in order to share the data, we have to make them anonymous, and data recognition is not an automatic process in most cases. [[He's gesticulating.]] So my demand as president of the country was: let us discuss the scientific, medical aspect that helps scientists and patients, but there must be a very hard debate about the economy in parallel, because it is not possible for us to come up with something that will cost hundreds of millions, if not billions. And now I get to the 14 billion. Yes, by your means, Mr Member, that is a repeated objection, but in order to get the money from insurance companies to medical facilities, it must allow a payment decree, and I, although the Ministry of Finance had a slightly different opinion, although health insurance companies had a fundamentally different opinion - because if you remember, in conciliation proceedings they agreed to a 4 percent increase - I did a detailed analysis of health insurance companies and increased my payment decree to twice, 8 percent. This increase goes precisely on the implementation of these screening performances with the fact that with your help and your merit - because it was a parliamentary proposal, and for that very thank you - the prevention funds have been substantially increased, which can again be used targetedly on preventive programs. Yes, there were concerns that it would have a fatal impact on insurance companies. Those concerns were the opposition, the coalition, the funding experts. However, the result is that the financing of insurance companies at the end of last year turned out the same, if not better than at the end of the previous year. And yes, mea culpa, I admit it, I should have been even tougher and I could have gone to 9 percent. I was careful, and I wanted the insurance companies to work well, and I promise I'll be tough next year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-001-136.u17	Thank you, Minister. Anyone else reporting for the debate? Mr Farhan, but in the meantime, a factual remark by Mr Vladimír Zlínský flickered. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-001-136.u18	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Mr Minister, through Madam President, I will return to the European Health Data Area, because I have been reporting this in the Committee on European Affairs, so I have tried to read it carefully. Of course, the European Union will have a considerable share in funding, but it can be assumed that the whole system will be very costly, and there is a clear fact that the main burden of financing will be borne by software manufacturers or hardware if the devices - and that is to be all medical devices connected to this system - I do not take the illusions that these manufacturers will then pass on the costs. And I'm only getting medical supplies. And I have one more question for you, through Madam President. I would like to ask if you support the idea that patients will be able to refuse sharing in the secondary health data area, that is, if they can say what in the primary space, that they do not want their data to be shared for the benefit of a doctor, so that they say: We do not want them to go into that secondary space, that is the space that is for regulators and for biotechnology and pharmacological companies and researchers. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-001-136.u19	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The Minister is interested in responding with priority rights and then Mr Farhan is signed up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-001-136.u20	Very briefly. The devices themselves are not a problem because the devices communicate with hospital information systems using DICOM format. DICOM 3.1 is one form, today it's a higher version in DICOM. Allows automatic anonymity. If I say this simply, simply click on any CT button, X-ray, MRI devices I can ignore the patient's data practically immediately and it also happens. The problem is not connected devices, the problem is data generated by text, it is a problem because hospital information systems, whatever text they have, have specific in the Czech Republic, and that is for a long time and I do not want to delay, specific formats and we have to do something about it. In our proposal, which we have moved to the Swedish Presidency, and I will certainly inform you in more detail in this first half of the year, as soon as the first meeting of Ministers takes place, we have just stressed the need that economic costs must go either to the detriment of the companies that want the data anonymous or, possibly, to the detriment of the scientific institutions that should pay for it from the grants they will receive from the account. In the case of patients where anonymous data are to be used for the care of patients, this must, of course, be a burden on health insurance companies. That's quite logical, but this, I think, is the smallest package of data. After all, there are several border projects in the Czech Republic due to my predecessors, which are already implementing them. I would like to mention the region of Vysočina and Austria, where the project was piloted and piloted successfully. That's the first part of the question. [[9.50 hours]] And the second answer is simple - yes, of course, there must always be the patient's right, or the patient's right, that's completely mandatory, he has to agree that his data will be used in any way, albeit in an anonymous form. And after all, that's what medicine is built on. If I want to use patient data, for example in a clinical trial, the patient has to agree to this before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-001-136.u21	Thank you. Mr Farhan has now signed up for the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-001-136.u22	Thank you, Madam President, I could have done it in a factual note. I just wanted to say three short comments. First. It was said repeatedly that the previous ministers did not do it. I agree with that, but on the other hand, it doesn't mean that if someone doesn't do something, the other person won't do it either. It doesn't mean that when someone does something, the other one does it, too. I'll give you two examples of someone not doing something and the other one did it, and then the other one, when he saw the first one doing it, the other one didn't. The first example that came to my mind in this case is that during the reign of Andrej Babiš, a large amount of money has flowed into the health care system and has certainly led to an improvement in the overall health system. That means the predecessors didn't do it that way, and the government of Andrej Babiš put the funds in the medical system. And the second thing is that Petr Fiala's government took... or not, took the health care, and thus the citizens of 14 billion crowns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-001-136.u23	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Zlínský, then the Minister, will now make a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-001-136.u24	Thank you for the floor. Mr Minister, through Madam President, you are right. You understand radiology, so it's like DICOM's already running the data coded. But I'm an ear, nasal, cervical, and I don't think in an endoscope, for example, image data... such a system is currently ensured that it would be possible to send it coded to the Internet. That's one thing. And the second thing I wanted to say: I have studied in detail the draft regulation of the European Union and there is nowhere to say that the patient will be able to contradict or disagree with the fact that his data will go to the secondary data sharing area. And in this way, I would like to thank you for supporting this idea, and I firmly believe that you will succeed in getting it implemented into this regulation in some way, so that we are protected as patients of the Czech Republic, that it would be mandatory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-001-136.u25	Thank you. Mr. Jiří Mašek will make a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-001-136.u26	Madam President, fellow Members, I do not want to extend this to the Minister alone. Indeed, in times of abundance, it may not have been necessary to present the statistics in some way and use them to argue. But that is necessary at a time when we are taking money from the system, because we must convince citizens that it is not at the expense of the waiting times and care provided to them. And I want to remind you of the fact that in Slovakia, east of us, medical salaries have increased significantly. And here said Dr. Janulík, yes, if he runs to hospitals and health care providers for more money from health insurance, then these providers can afford to add to the doctors. So we're a little bit interested in possible future personnel problems in the medical field here, and I would be very happy to initiate this and we'll definitely discuss it on the Health Committee, what legislative steps to take, so that the Minister can access the data and be able to justify possible further withdrawal of the money from health insurance to the citizens, with no actually happening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-001-136.u27	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The Minister will perform. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-001-136.u28	Yes, thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, each and every one of these facts will call for a series of things that need to be corrected in some way, but to respond to it. If I wanted to be incorrect, yes, in the past two years, in 2020, 2021, in the covido years, the most money has flowed to health care, yes, that is true, far more money than in previous years. It is a question of how the availability and quality of health care improved in 2020 and 2021, i.e. excluding covid patients. I don't think so, on the contrary, it got worse - that's actually what the interpelation is about today - because it extended over the two years when there was much more money flowing, ordering deadlines. And yet I will never say it's a mistake, through you, the absent Member, former Prime Minister Babiš, or my predecessors at the Ministry of Health. It just flowed there because we had a very unique situation, a covid, when we had to drain tens of billions, maybe more than tens, it was closer to hundreds, to support patients with cod, vaccines, monoclonal antibodies, and other medicines. And unfortunately, the money was then missing from scheduled performances, screenings, and other patients' treatment, and the deadlines were extended. I'm lucky that we've managed Omicron in a simpler way - and it's not my fault, I realize it, I'm not applying for it - and we can devote the money to catching up on the past few years. So it's not that there's a simple equation - a lot of money, quality of care. As far as European Health Data Space is concerned, I don't really know if you have what we approved on EPSCO in December, and if you have the last text of what we sent to the Swedish Presidency. I assume that the European Commission's proposal, which we have been working on, pushing and correcting on two points, is more available. The directive is not a directive, it is not a recommendation yet, it is nothing. It is a work material that will be very intensively worked on in the coming years. Personally, I estimate the horizon for several years, four, five, six years before we reach a conclusion. And here, I'd just like to make a little point. I'm a radiologist, but I've also done a year and a half of IT deputy at Brno University Hospital, and I can assure you that any device, including rigid laryngoscopes, including flexible laryngoscopes, tracheoscopes and, in general, all endoscopes, including even laboratory, even electron microscopes and others, produces and can produce images in DICOM format. Modern devices already have this obligation, older devices must have a platform that converts JPGs or TIFFs into electronic formats. But since this works here in our Republic, and we have just the sharing of image documentation, so if I may say the archive of the Brno University Hospital, which I know intimately, because I have been very involved in its construction and the interconnection of the information system, the separation of clean and dirty information system - we can discuss sometime together, these are interesting topics - and you, by your means, Madam President, Member, really understand it very well, so here we have in the PAC archive not only data from endoscopy, but also from endosonography, colonoscopy, we have data from ERCP and a number of other methods. We had, and we even want to continue to build an electronic archive of pathological findings, because then on the indicative committees where we decide what the optimal treatment of patients with oncological disease is, all of these data are being passed, consulted, discussed and searched for the optimal way forward. And that's why the data came from the machines. I'm not going back to the 14 billion, I think it's an unnecessary repetition, all the arguments have been made here. I'm not sure I'm 100% sure as a doctor and as a person who is still and daily in a number of health care establishments, there really is no impact on the quality of health care. We have significantly increased money in the payment decree for those performances where waiting times have been extended, we support one day's medicine and we change the payment decree so - and I hope that we can continue this in the years to come - so that the care is really as good as possible, goes to the patient, shortens the deadlines. [[10.00 hours]] And the last thing I would dare, through you, to Mr Mašek - thank you for the offer. The Department of Health has legislation in place. I would like to present it in the House in the first half of next year, and I hope that at joint meetings, perhaps also with the Senate Health Committee, at the Ministry of Health, we will discuss these topics with officials, directors, senior directors, because here, I repeat, we will have to find a really broad non-political - I will repeat this - non-political consensus, because we will have to set up a register law that will be robust and compromise between GDPR and the protection of personal data and what we would undoubtedly all of us who are doctors in this Chamber of Deputies wanted for our patients, i.e. to have the best information so that we can treat them and monitor their treatment as best as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-001-136.u29	Thank you, Minister. I wonder if anyone else is reporting for the debate? It's not like that. I have noted Mr Farhan's proposal for the House to adopt a disagreeable position on the response to the Minister of Válek's interpellation. Is the Member insisting on this motion for a resolution? Yes. I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby. I'll rejoin. I've logged the logout application, so I'm going to unsubscribe all of you, and I'm going to ask you to re-subscribe with your I.D. cards. Before the number of applications is settled, I will read the apologies: Berki Jan apologizes from 13 to 9 o'clock for personal reasons, Vondrák Ivo to 10.30 for work reasons, further apologizes Marek Výborný from 9.30 to 10.45 for work reasons. So many apologies. The number of applicants has not settled down, so I will repeat Mr Farhan's proposal, which is that the House should adopt a disagreeable position on the response to Minister Válek's interpelation. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 50, 112 Members and Members signed in, for 51, against 61. The motion was denied. This concludes the discussion of this interpelation and we would now proceed to the discussion of the interpelation of another. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek responded to Mr Kamal Farhan's interview on the capacity of health care workers and the needs of care providers to ensure affordable and high-quality health care. You received an interpelation together with the reply as House Press 320. The discussion of this response was interrupted on 1 December 2022 by the Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek, who I see here, and we will therefore continue the debate. I wonder who's reporting for the debate? Mr. Farhan. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-001-136.u30	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, let me explain why I am actually presenting this second interview. I have a few questions here, and I would first sum up the Ministry of Health's reply. According to the Ministry of Health, 3 000 general nurses and 1,000 doctors are missing in their response. In addition, the capacity of practitioners and practitioners for children and adolescents is in danger of falling, 30 to 40 percent is already in retirement age. That's actually the answer. The Ministry has not yet publicly stated what steps it wants to take so that the lack of personnel capacity of health workers will not endanger the quality and availability of healthcare in a fundamental way. That's why I'm putting it on the table to actually find out. I learned from the written interpelation, and I do not consider it an acceptable message, it is not written specifically, but that a strategy will be presented by the Ministry in the spring of 2023. So I ask the Minister after a year of his work, how do you want to deal with the acute shortage of 3,000 nurses you know about and 1,000 doctors, of which 40 and 60 percent are missing from you directly controlled hospitals? It's actually from your message. How do you want to address the critical situation of a lack of practices, pediatricians, which are already 30 to 40 percent of retirement age? Regular interviews with hospital directors, health care establishments, and patients make it clear that health professionals are missing in general in some areas of expertise, and it is alarming in some areas. I can ask you here, Minister - and I may not be doing this at this point - to ask for individual expertise, but I think it is for a longer discussion. It's about oncologists, surgeons, pediatricians, practitioners, but we both know this information. I would like to ask you, Minister, to present to the public a comprehensive strategy on how the Czech Republic wants to deal with the lack and growing need of health workers. In my view, this is a necessary condition for the availability and quality of care. I am really concerned about the inactivity of the Ministry of Health in this matter. I understand that last year - you may oppose me, or I assume that you will oppose me - almost nothing has happened. I'd like you to offer us the concept of a solution next year, or I'd like you to do it in 2023, not next year, but also with some practical steps, and I'm not just going to say with some virtual ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-001-136.u31	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The Minister has signed up for the debate. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-001-136.u32	Thank you, Madam President. Members of Parliament, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, I have taken note here because there is a need to be as specific as possible. The lack of general medical staff is a long-term problem not only in the Czech Republic, but around the world, as the number of patients is actually reduced, which one medical officer or team will serve. Personalized medicine, for the laity of medicine, when the team is actually preparing treatment for a specific patient, a sort of tailored suit, has made this even worse. And the more patients who need a custom-made suit grow, the less the number of tailors actually is because something else is when the suit is made in bulk and you buy it then the supermarket, and something else is when more and more suits have to be custom-made. And that's the same thing in medicine. The Czech Republic responded because we have to say that in order to increase the number of doctors, we have to have more students at medical faculties. The study lasts six years, and then for the next five years, the doctors - on average five years - are going to do their own profession, so they have to pass on the preparation. That means what's happening today, what's happening today is some number of doctors on the market, it's rooted about 11 years ago. The number of doctors he's testing today is rooted five years ago because five years ago, those doctors graduated from medical schools. And there was a step in which oddly right-wing and left-wing governments and the government of the ANO movement were involved, or so was Prime Minister Sobotka at that time. At the instigation of academic chambers, I was then chairman of the Association of Academic Boards, and at the instigation of university rectors there was something that was unprecedented, and I very much appreciate it as a doctor, as an academic, that increased the number of medical faculty students. To make it simple: the State decided to send money in a package that was committed specifically to medical faculties so that they could accept more graduates. And I, as head of the Academic Senate, later as MP, now as minister, am dealing with the deans, I deal with the deans regularly and watch the students advance through those medical faculties. And we're gonna have our first fruit next year because the graduates here are gonna be done with the program, so we're gonna have more graduates, and that's what we need to get ready for. [[10.10 hours]] How to do that with nurses, nonmedical health professionals? Well, the same way, and that's why we started planning a similar greasy package last year, which we would like to introduce. But it's much more complicated here, because we're gonna have to choose the professions that it's gonna involve, if it's just a general nurse. Of course, we will have to discuss how to connect, as you know from the Health Committee, a practice nurse who is unique in the Czech Republic, is not elsewhere, with the profession of a general nurse. Let's just remember last year's debates about how to go on in non-medical medical professions. These debates have been very painful, they have been challenging and we will continue to do so. But what are specific things, because what happens sometimes, that's obviously important, because without getting it ready now, it's never gonna happen, but everyone wants to know what's gonna happen now. There are things the Minister of Health can really do, and I'm glad to tell you that I did. The first step is to strengthen the position of, say, nurses and doctors in the labour market, to make young sisters, young doctors more attractive to choose the profession. So we have taken two steps that apply since this year, they could not pay before - the first one is that doctors after the tribe can go far before they can go one grade higher, and they will go, and therefore it will be much more attractive to stay in the Czech Republic. The second thing we've done is we've expanded the grades for magisters of a non-doctor so that they can go back to the pay grade above to raise their salary since January this year. And it's got something to do with it. We have also strengthened the remuneration of non-medical workers in medical facilities, because I see a great deal of space there to strengthen the position of non-medical workers, for example in the archives of health establishments, in places where they order, in places where there is a central ordering, and it is something that is my personal experience. At my former place of work, where I was chief, we got to the number of over thirty non-medical non-medical non-medical workers, who are everywhere where they are ordered, where there are telephone operators, where there are archives. We employed several handicapped people and it turned out to be a very good way. And those specialists - in my field, they're radiologic assistants - we've only really sent where specialists do their jobs, i.e. when working with a CT, with an MRI, with an angiography, not where it's administrative activity. The second step that the Ministry of Health can take, and it did it last year - it was difficult, because they always decide how they will be rewarded, or how they will be paid the seats for the state budget graduates. Thus, the decision as to how the graduate seats will be divided last year has already been made, including money, as much as it can be done, which was already in 2021 at a time when I was not a minister. I could only correct it from the returned places and all the returned places I had in agreement with the association of physicians, practitioners for adults and practitioners for children and adolescents divided it into these two fields and I actually started discussions with these fields in March, how to further and how to encourage more graduates of medical faculties to choose to specialize as practical physicians for adults and practical doctors for children and adolescents. The first thing I had to find out was the interest among the students of the medical faculties in general in these two professions. Here we have had an analysis done in cooperation with medical faculties over the past few years and we have found that the annual interest in the profession of a practical doctor for adults among graduates of medical faculties is up to 150. That is why this year I wrote 150 seats for graduates of medical faculties for adults, practical physicians for adults, when their salary, not salary, salary, will be fully paid from the state budget so that their trainer, a practical doctor, did not bear the cost to himself, because the aim of the state - and so the law, when once my predecessor, the Minister of Health presented it - was meant that the law was meant that we have places for residents in the Czech Republic as everywhere in the world. The resident equals the graduate of the medical faculty included in the delivery preparation. Every doctor who works anywhere without a certificate is known worldwide as a resident. And this resident, when he participates in any international congress, any activity, has significantly lower fees and his superior confirms: Yes, this doctor does not have a certificate, he is a resident. And some countries, including the Czech Republic, pay part of these residences from the state budget where there are not enough residences for these graduates. In the Czech Republic, these are typically four fields: a practical physician for adults, a practical physician for children and adolescents, a practical physician, a neurologist, a paediatric neurologist and a practical physician - a pediatric psychiatrist, and these four areas need to be strengthened in a fundamental way, because there are not only absolute numbers of these doctors, but even if we compare the statistics of European Union countries according to the OECD, we also have a relative lack of these doctors for the population. Why don't these doctors have their places, why don't they have their places, why aren't residential places written for them? Well, it's simple. The trainer, the residential site, must be in large numbers the doctor, the general practitioner, the self-employed, who actually treats patients, produces points, and de facto pays the salary of these young graduates from their income from insurance companies, from their profit. That is why I have decided that from this year onwards these salaries should be fully paid from the state budget. That's why we put 20 percent more on the education of young doctors, the specialization education of young doctors. We got over 800 now, 40 or 60 million crowns. In previous years it was around 700, 710 million crowns. And this money really goes to these places where there's a desperate shortage. And then we did the second thing that we doubled to triple according to the industry - how, by your means, Mr Farhan clearly defined that there are big differences in the fields - so we doubled or tripled the money for everyone who joins the tribes, that is to say, the first part of the presentation. Anyone who asks for funding from a medical facility tribe gets double or triple what they did last year. For those doctors who choose and take up a residence for a physician for adults, a physician for children and adolescents, a physician for neurology or a physician for pediatric neurology or pediatric psychiatry, we will even fully pay their wages, their salary, here in this case it is a wage. The next step that we have taken, we would like to introduce courses that are mandatory and that must be paid for by health care institutions. If they are organized by the state, possibly the medical faculties to make those courses online and those courses will preferably be free of charge. I held negotiations with deans of medical faculties, and as a result of this meeting, I hope to introduce to you in March that, on the one hand, I would like to increase the competence of graduates of medical faculties. At the very least, I believe that a graduate of medical faculties - that it would be worth considering and that I need to discuss it with the Scientific Council, with a professional company with the Czech Medical Society Jan Evangelista Purkyně, because there must be consensus - but at least a graduate of the Medical Faculty should be able to do vaccinations or injections. It just should be. At the same time, I would like us to cancel some compulsory courses in educational programmes, which actually double what students of medical faculties are learning. The preparation will be simplified again and the availability will be reduced again. A typical example of the course can be the first aid course, where we have a very intensive teaching of the last six, seven years of first aid at medical faculties. We have exams, we even have simulation centers where the students are learning it, and yet we have a first-aid course to pass on to health care professionals who have to pay for it again. So we had a really good time, and the debate is going on. I started this because I am very hard in the academic community and I am interested in education, so the debate started a long, long time ago and we are trying to do it sometime in February, so we are now trying to transform it into legislative changes, which I will introduce next year in the House. [[10.20 hours]] The last step is that we would like to discuss part of the compulsory practice that is part of the tribe already at the medical faculties. This is a very strong reform, but we would like to see that in the last year of medical schools - and I have to thank the thankers, because it was their proposal - that in the last year of medical faculties graduates get even more into medical facilities than they currently are, to increase the number of facilities that have cooperation with medical faculties so that they really get where they are missing, and that device had the opportunity to lure them and let's say explain to them that the work there is attractive. Because I've been around a lot of hospitals, and they're small hospitals, they're hospitals, let's say, in the periphery, and those hospitals are extremely high quality. I don't want to name any of them right now, though I might - and let me, so Nymburk Hospital, this is a hospital where I would love to work on an X-ray, and if I end up in politics, it's a place where I'd love to work on that X-ray. And there's a lot of hospitals like that, they're small hospitals - Boskovice Hospital, Blansko Hospital, and I could go on. That's why we targeted the money into these hospitals. If I sum it up. From the long term, we need to strengthen the number of students in non-medical health fields and change some competences in the personnel decree after discussing trade unions, with chambers so that we can further strengthen the role of perhaps practical nurses in the system, but without a doubt get non-medical workers there. Secondly, we must systematically direct the money to paid residential places where we lack doctors and where residential places are not written simply because their salary, the salary, had to pay practices, whether they were adults, child psychiatrists, child neurologists. Thirdly, it is necessary to deal with deans of medical faculties so that everything that is in the undergraduate - postgraduate education is gone. Fourth, we need to simplify - and we have done this and the software will work by the end of this year - information about where students are getting in, what fields they choose, why they choose them, this information was not the state had, and especially dramatically simplifying applications for accreditation, approval of accreditations. And I apologize for Englishism, but I will say it - last, but not least, I apologize, colleagues, what is not important: we must work much better with foreigners who are interested in staying in the Czech Republic. Therefore, one of the first things I did when the leadership changed and Dr. Maříková won as head of doškolovák School School, I ordered to concentrate on the probation exams so that those probation exams were strict, but fair, and from a fair examination they were thrown out to 10 percent of the students. That's my long-term experience, who's been testing students for 30 years, trying to test. It's not a bigger percentage. So did Professor Táborská, who sits at the National Accreditation Agency, and was the biggest expert and is through testing graduates of medical faculties and students, she said: If she has a test of 100 questions, the test is not public, if she has more than 500 questions, then the questions need to be published so that students are ready for all these questions and so have learned the whole field. The aim of the tests is not to discard, the aim of the tests is to educate. That's why I want the published questions for the tests so that we can increase the quality of the success rate for those who are interested in getting ready for the tests. At the same time, we sent money to Doškolovák so that the preparation of foreigners is financed as far as possible, so that foreigners who are interested in working in the Czech Republic make quality health professionals to have financed preparation. We are considering some legislative changes that are common in the countries of the European Union from Slovakia beginning with France, but it is probably pointless to dissect here. I am glad that it succeeds, that my predecessors have succeeded, and there are countries where it has failed, and even my predecessors have failed. If we look practically, I am 100% sure - and here I am willing to put my hand into the fire - that for any Minister of Health, it doesn't matter whether it was Julínek, Heger, Vojtěch or Válek, it has always worked in the Czech Republic, but brutally, more Slovak health professionals, whether doctors or non-medical professionals, than Czech health professionals, whether doctors or non-medical professionals, in Slovakia. That's a fact we all know. And I thank my predecessors very much for that, because their policy in this regard was certainly very good. I want to follow up on her, and I just want to continue with the trends and deepen the good they did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-001-136.u33	Thank you, Minister. Mr Jiří Mašek will now make a point of fact, and Mrs Mádlová will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-001-136.u34	Madam President, colleagues, Mr Minister, I will once again be very brief. I'll remind you that we've been talking about the lack of medical personnel and the possibilities of dealing with them. I just want to say that this is getting more and more surprising and that practical physicians for adults and practical doctors for children are now 40 percent between the ages of 60 and 80. When the GP ends today, 3,000 people have trouble capitalizing elsewhere with someone else. They're just not doctors. Those times when they were selling offices, or filing cabinets, they're long gone. We were trying to do something about it. In fact, our government has increased by 20 percent the number of medical faculty students. At the same time, 7 billion of the state budget went in this direction, so these are tangible steps. Action Study Health has returned the students to medical schools. A salary increase of 1.6-fold for nurses, 2.7-fold for doctors on the national average meant that these people stabilized here, that the Slovák actually worked for us. But we've all noticed that after the threat of a strike in Slovakia, the salaries of medical personnel have increased significantly, and the Slovák will be leaving. And you said you knew how to do it, you said so in a number of areas. Within the five-wheeler, you also have pirát who had the password hrrr on them, let us at them and so on, and you felt that way. But we see that in all areas, it doesn't quite work out. I'm not gonna touch energy, inflation and a bunch of other things, other resorts, but what I understand a little bit, and it's health, so I just don't see the results here after that year. They're promises, they're visions, maybe in three, six years, we're talking about it, working groups. I've got some oral interpelations ready for you today, Minister, but please, there's a lot of work to be done in this resort. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-001-136.u35	Thank you. Another factual one is Mrs Mádlová, Mrs Maříková will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-001-136.u36	Madam President, Minister, colleagues, I would like to recall one more fact that has affected the lack of health professionals, whether doctors or nurses, but, of course, this is reflected in other professions. The issue is that the birth rate was very low between 1996 and 2004, approximately in these years, when under 100,000 children were born per year, and it has, of course, huge impacts on the whole economy, in all resorts. This means that really solving this problem is a very difficult task, a very difficult nut for every government, and therefore a propopulation policy is also important. This means not only addressing the complex lack of health professionals or medical professions, but so-called kicking and kicking up the pro-population policy, which, of course, also means promoting housing. And now, when I look at your policy of expensive energy, it's expensive housing, inaccessible housing, food prices have gone up, people are really staggering in poverty in your government, the standard of living has fallen extremely, and it will, of course, have consequences for families who pay for universities, housing, books, equipment and so on. You know that even college schools have to pay for something, they have to buy something, and they have to study medicine, and at the same time it's not easy to work, it's an extremely demanding school. And I wonder what your government will do in the area of populist politics? I know it's not just your resort, of course it's about more ministers, but it's about birth and support, and it's about women giving birth more, and it's about making sure those families don't go down in poverty. [[Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-001-136.u37	Thank you, Madame. Mrs Maříková will now speak with the facts, Mr Zlínský will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-001-136.u38	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I have a question for the Minister, because I don't know if I understood him correctly, and the tape isn't published yet. You, Minister, through Madam President, have said that you want those questions to be made public for foreigners who will pass the exams. I don't think it'll be appropriate to what their knowledge is if they know the questions ahead. So please, if you can be more specific. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-001-136.u39	Thank you, Madame. And last in fact, that is what Mr Zlínský signed up for, and now Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová has jumped in. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-001-136.u40	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Mr Minister, through Madam President, I am also extremely interested in the problem of why there is a shortage of doctors and medical personnel, and you mentioned here that this concerns other advanced states and countries. I don't know if I've seen any analysis of the problem, if anybody's been dealing with it, why that is. You mentioned some sort of financial arrangement here. Of course, all of these measures sounded logical, basically I don't have fundamental complaints, but I'm afraid it won't be enough, because if we don't have the right definition of why there's a loss of health professionals in developed countries, and if this process escalates and progresses, it will very unpleasantly affect all the stability of our systems. And maybe when I bite into that sour apple, I would mention that the prestige of health care workers is falling, that medical workers are being heavily informed because they have to process a huge amount of information, they have to work a lot of hours, plus everything at night, so if they don't think about it all, why this is happening, and not look a little bit forward and solve this problem. Of course, it also concerns education. It is another bite in an acid apple, whether the education of health professionals and doctors and even the spectrum of people involved in health care, whether it corresponds to current scientific and technical progress and developments in society. Well, I'd like to open this up, too. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-001-136.u41	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, and with the final fact - so far - Mrs. Mračková Mr. Vildumetzová will perform. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-001-136.u42	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, Minister, fellow Members, I would also like to respond to some of the things that have been said here from the Minister's mouth. I am very glad that he appreciated the increase in the number of students of medical faculties, which will therefore be reflected in the next year when they will be finished. But he also talked about the lack of nonmedical staff, whether they are nurses, physiotherapists and others, where I have to say that regions play a big role, which give recruitment contributions both for nurses and so on, in a way they substitute part of the matter of the Ministry of Health, which has always bothered me, and what worries me very much within the Karlovy Vary Region, and you know it very well that he does not have a faculty hospital, and it is said that he does not have a public university, but he has one. He has the University of West Bohemia and has a beautiful building in Cheb. I'd like to invite you to come and see it, because it's completely equipped, including the Aula. And imagine that the University of West Bohemia has a Faculty of Health Studies, where it writes... students' interest, nurses', physiotherapist. I looked it up, and maybe 450 candidates are reporting to Plzeň, and they can take or take only 60. And I'm asking the dean, why aren't they in Cheb? Why doesn't he open his classes in Cheb? I've been trying for many years, and the dean just doesn't want to. That's what this is about. So if you couldn't be a little more active in this, because I think it's these regions where there's really the greatest shortage of doctors and nurses, then we should do everything in that territory to get the nurses and doctors and the non-medical workers there. [[Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-001-136.u43	Thank you. Now with the de facto Mr Brázdil. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-001-136.u44	Thank you for the floor. Minister, I'm sorry, you'll be right at the counter, but I'd like to respond. You mentioned that if they weren't human, we'd strengthen the powers of those who weren't allowed to do it until now, so we'd replace it. That's one of the ways you said you wanted to do it. But I don't think that's a good way to go. If they weren't allowed to until now, and good health care was, and we're gonna put it on those who weren't allowed to do it until now, but they're gonna be able to, so do you think that's gonna increase the quality of health? I don't know, I don't think so. And the next thing he wants to say, there's no information. You said they didn't have any information on how many doctors, the poppy doctors, there was no information. But there have been many years here, and you probably know it, a registry that has the Czech Medical Chamber, and I, as chairman in Olomouc - 2,200 doctors, know where they live, how old they are, what fields they have, what certificates they have, if they have a lifelong education diploma, we know e-mails on them... It's all there. There's a lot of stuff there, you could use it. And then one last comment. Once everything is a priority, if there is a problem with education and everything is a priority, then nothing is a priority. It's just going to move on like this, and you're not actually going to get your priorities out of it. The priority may be one, two, maybe three, but I can't call it all a priority, and we move it all along, so it's actually just a ball that just goes on and on. Maybe uphill, maybe downhill, but I don't think it's a priority. But maybe I'm wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-001-136.u45	Minister, please bear with me, because Mr Wenzl has applied to the facts. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-001-136.u46	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, I am glad what you said here about 20 minutes ago today, because we will more or less follow up on what I was talking about here in the month of June last year, and it was about the support from the Ministry of Health to have faculty graduates enter into hospitals of the district type or peripheries, because I understand, of course, it is about the hospital management I can offer to the graduate, it is about erudice and the quality of medical staff, and now I am really glad that from your mouth, as you mentioned some of those hospitals, we will not name them all, and that really from the faculty lecturers it will be: Go to those county hospitals, they are quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-001-136.u47	Thank you, and now the Minister has signed up for the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-001-136.u48	Madam President, I apologise to you, colleagues, because I am able to fix the last three interpelations tops. Though I take notes, since it was plain, I was not able to record them all, so I apologize in advance both to the Members and to the Members, unless I answer to any of these interventions. It's not because I don't want to, it's just because I don't remember. I'll try from the back. Hospital support. I agree with what has been said here, by your means, from the Member, that it really always depends on the founder and the management, the management, the owner of the health facility, like or not doing the personnel policy, whether he supports some fields, does not support what he sets wages for private people, and also for regional establishments, wages are given by tables, but those wages are more important because we take wages, we do not just take wages. Of course, it depends on the founders' strategy, if they keep the hospitals, rent them, privatize them, and the Ministry can't interfere with that. The Ministry can intervene intensively only in directly managed organizations, but it can basically only do so by taking an audition for the director, but it won't affect how the hospital operates. He can advise her, he can debate her, he can push her, but only the exchange of directors can make a difference. You need to tell yourself the facts. But we all know that, and I think we know that it is. What the Ministry can do is ask the deans of medical faculties, because the medical faculty doesn't belong to the Ministry of Health. Yes, in many countries of the European Union, the Minister of Health is the one under which the medical faculty belongs, so it is a common standard that in Europe, like in the first Republic of our country, the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs is one ministry. The fact that there are two ministries in our country is a very difficult debate about socio-health boundaries. I think that, by your means, Madam President, some Members here could tell long stories about this, or even Members sitting on the Health and Social Committee, also about the debates that have been going on between the relevant minister and minister over the past four years in the previous Babišův government. After all, we all know that the debates were undignified. I'm sure it's not a criticism of anything. It's just the situation. [[10.40 hours]] I've been communicating with the deans. Yes, I'm taking advantage of the fact that I'm from the academic world and that part of these deans are my colleagues and personal friends. We meet with the deans regularly. Of course, the Minister of Education knows about this, because the Minister of Education is the one to whom the universities belong, and I am debating it with him. We are debating what we can change - and I am responding to two of the interventions - what we can change in terms of students. It is possible to strengthen practical teaching even more. Maybe here, I'd change the medical school in Plzeň. The thing I'm extremely sorry about -- and again, I'm extremely sorry about non-medical people here, but she's a lot of professional topics that you've raised here today -- The Faculty of Medicine in Pilsen has done something that I consider a very interesting step. They had a huge lack of anatomy, so Professor Ferda, who is the dean, I suspect, of the medical faculty, but he's a radiologist, which is why I know he's also the head of anatomy. I think he's in charge of the anatomy. Next, they teach neurosurgeons, surgeons, now I don't know exactly the fields they teach there. They have made the anatomy an extremely attractive field, which is becoming a very clinical field and teaches so-called - I would use the term "live anatomy," where in films, virtual reality, clinics, students receive information about why anatomy is necessary for them in the next action. That's how these clinical disciplines move into other areas. Dean's debate on this topic was very interesting from my point of view and it is necessary to thank the Dean's Association again for this. The debate must also consist of a greater link between undergraduate and postgraduate education. We did a reform of education a number of years ago, when a centralized system of two-tests adapted to what is a standard everywhere, a one-stage test that is organized by medical faculties. The centralized way was in the United States, but otherwise it is not in Europe. But we didn't make it because there were some departments left at the School School that were competing with the faculty for nothing. The coordination of these faculties' study departments, for example, wasn't perfect, the information wasn't electronic. That means, yes, I partly answer the question that has been raised here, by you, by Mr Brázdil. The chamber knows about doctors, but only if they become members. About doctors who are not members of it - I would like to appoint a colleague Julínek, who is not a member of the Medical Chamber, there we will not know why he is not a member of... then we know why he's not a member - well, because he's locked up now, but before that, the president of the chamber David Rath voted him out then, if I remember. But what I'm saying is that a number of graduates just aren't members of the Medical Chamber, they're somewhere... We don't know where they are, we don't know if they're going abroad - we think so, we don't know if they're going to pharmaceutical companies, we don't know if they're going to the Institute of holistic medicine and not doing paramedical things. We don't really know. We don't know what test subjects these doctors choose and where to pass on the preparation. We know where he lives. We don't really know where they work, we don't really know what their jobs are. That means I'm answering two of those interpellings again. We don't really know whether or not we have the power or the lack of doctors in individual fields. Thank you here for bringing this up in his interpellation, through you, Mr Farhan. We don't actually know exactly which fields we have a lot of doctors and in which few. We have some data. Now I'm gonna take advantage of it again - and I'm sorry - that I'm a radiologist. I have represented the Czech Republic in the European Union of Medical Specialists for twenty years, which is the main expert body in Europe, where representatives of individual countries for individual fields, and then the President of the Czech Medical Society represents the country there. According to OECD statistics, we are third in the number of radiologists in the population of some years, somewhere on the fourth, somewhere on the fifth, and many countries are very envious of it. I've always heard: Yeah, you're lucky, Vlastík, you have radiologists, if we had one in Italy, France. But when I returned to the Czech Republic as Chairman of Radiological Society or Scientific Secretary, I heard from most health establishments: After all, these radiologists are scarce! And you know that if you work in a hospital, you're in vain for a radiologist. That is, the question is, where do we have the doctors, and if it is not possible - and I answer the interpelation, by your means, Mr Brázdil - if it is not possible to work more with where the doctors are. To encourage them to be where they are needed and not to encourage, including the payment decree, to be where, say, they should be interested in being, but they do not need them in the care of patients. Let them choose, but don't encourage it if I say it very simply. I agree, by your means, Madam President, with what the Member said, that this is a very complicated and complex problem and a long-term problem. We learned from the data that Professor Dušek has presented and lectured on the Health Committee - and after all the same data was given to us by the Medical Chamber - we, by your means, saw Mr Brázdil in Brno at the meeting of the Medical Chamber and there the data was heard, I believe, from my colleague Klimovičová. We know that after a year, let's say 2035 we have a big problem. Yes, I could say, I don't care, I'm 63, I don't know how much after 2035, but it's gonna be a lot, and I'm certainly not gonna be in politics, so my followers are gonna be dealing with it. But I'm interested, I consider it absolutely crucial, because I'm a doctor, and the older I get, the more and more I need care. So we need to think about keeping this situation under control even after 2035. The birth rate is certainly one of the key problems and by your means I answer the question of Ms ANO. We need to focus on making it attractive for women to have children. The problem is that the fruits of this attraction - 18 years of graduation, 6 years of medical school, 5 years of certification, 18 and 11 is almost 30 - will be harvested in 30 years. I've done my best to lighten up, because I have four kids, and all those kids are in those classes that were weak. I don't think I can do that anymore. However, the state must do its utmost to promote motherhood, to promote family policy. I think the Minister and the entire government are aware of that. I mean, don't let me delay professionally. Colleagues and fellow Members, honourable Members, again I beg you very much, and now let us try to forget that we are from different political parties, and try to forgive me that I am the Minister of Health for the TOP 09, and that I am a member of a government that, say, the opposition does not like about logic, and try to look at me for a moment as a doctor, a radiologist who spends thirty-five, forty years of his life in medicine and is really trying to help patients as a university professor who is intensive in testing and training young doctors. I have always looked at you, colleagues and colleagues who are paramedics, with this eyesight, and I will look and watch. Let's have some fun without some political invectives on how to move on with the health system. We are not doing this to ensure that the Fialův government is successful or unsuccessful, we are not doing this to make Válek a minister for four years or to be removed as soon as possible. The reason we are doing this is because of patients and citizens of the Czech Republic. If we don't find a consensus on this, if we don't move on together - and not in the horizon of one parliamentary term, but in a much longer term - let's argue about this, let's have a very technical argument, but if we don't keep doing this, then we're really going to have a very, very difficult time after 2030, 2035. Here I completely agree with the President of the Czech Medical Chamber and my classmate Eva Klimovičová. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-001-136.u49	Thank you, Minister. Anyone else interested in speaking in the debate? Yes, he does, Mr Farhan. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-001-136.u50	Minister, thank you for your answers. Sometimes we deviated from the subject. I'm here to interpel, first of all - of course, we've learned something - I've filed it because there are a few points I'd like to mention. The first one is, I would expect you - and I expect you to introduce a clear strategy to the public - because at this point we jumped from one place to another, and that strategy should be introduced as soon as possible. I assume it was a misrepresentation, you said you'd introduce her to the House next year. I believe you will introduce her in the spring, as you mentioned earlier. I was simply disappointed by your written answer in the sense that for some of the things that I learned here, although from my point of view they are not completely systematic or time sorted, but some things have happened, so in that answer you actually wrote: "It is necessary to prepare a detailed mapping of capacity distribution. Restructuring of the bed fund is necessary.' It's just that these are things that you guys in that written interview aren't really specific at all. It's always, "We're going to, we're going to, but when you do it, how it's going to look, I didn't know that. And in order not to extend it in any way, I will ask you, Madam President, to vote against the Minister's reply in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-001-136.u51	Yes, thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I've noted your proposal. And now, with Mr Nacher in fact. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-001-136.u52	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I wanted to ask the Minister Válek Health for some balance in the debates. I feel like we're going from extreme to extreme between Tuesday and Thursday. We ask you things on Tuesday, like lack of medicine, no one here answers. Now, two written interpelations will take two hours, which means he won't get to the other written interpelations at all. I'm not criticizing that you're answering, but, as the doctors who asked you from our club confirmed, the answer was very trash, which actually took two hours. The others will not be able to get to the written interpelations afterwards. This is the Minister of Regional Development Bartoš waiting for my heat billing intervention, and that's what these people are interested in. So I'm just gonna ask for some balance. Just something in between, finding some sort of center, it's not that complicated. That means either not answering at all or answering in an hour's debate. That's all. It's just a request, a request for me. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-001-136.u53	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The Minister is still reporting for the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-001-136.u54	I am terribly, Madam President, sorry to all my colleagues, but the questions, there were so many, and the suggestions that what should I do instead of answer? That's my duty as minister. I've been restrained and I haven't read the concept. There's no way we could have done that by 11:00. Once again, I'm offering a place for such a debate, let's meet at the Ministry of Health with the Health Committee. I also offer this to the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. Let's discuss this so that we can go deep. I'm done. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-001-136.u55	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Pastuchová, with a factual point. Please, you have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-001-136.u56	Thank you, Madam President. Well, I don't think he's gonna get into my interview because of the Minister's trash answers, that's okay. But you, Minister, are now completely denying what my colleague Patrik Nacher said through you. On Tuesday, we, as paramedics, asked a lot of questions about drugs for children, adult drugs, and you sat here and watched on the phone, and you didn't respond once, like other ministers who didn't actually sit here and come to the vote. Today, you're all telling us that a conspiracy to distrust the government is our political campaign for our president. So I'd like to say that if there was a political campaign for our president, he could be here every day and talk for two hours every day, as long as he wants, as long as he wants. He doesn't need the government's mistrust meeting. That is what we ordinary Members need, so that I will ever get to the floor and tell you what is bothering the citizens of our Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-001-136.u57	Thank you, Madame. I wonder if anyone else is reporting for the debate? It's not like that. So I'm done with the debate. In the debate, Mr Farhan made a proposal for the House to adopt a disagreeable opinion on the response to the Minister Válek's interpelation. I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby. I'm picking up an application for a check-out. I'd like you to sign up with your ID cards. I'm still gonna go on. And in the meantime, before we proceed to the vote, I will read the apology: Bartošek Jan apologizes from 10 to 11 o'clock for working reasons, Bureš Jan from 11 to 18 working reasons, Jílková Marie from 9 to 10.30 - working reasons, Kaňkovský Vít from 9.30 to 11 o'clock without stating the reason, Šimek David from 10 to 13 - working reasons, Válková Helena from 11 to 11.30 - working reasons, Free Jan from 11 o'clock - working reasons and Minister Jan Lipavský apologizes from 11 o'clock for working reasons. The number of applicants has stabilized for us, and we will now vote on a dissenting position on the response to Minister Válek's interpelation. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 51, registered by 127 Members and Members, for 63, against 64, the proposal was rejected. I'm done discussing this interpelation and we'll open the following interpellation. Prime Minister Petr Fiala responded to Ms Jana Pastuchová's interview on the lack of security clearance of Deputy Ministers at the Ministry of Health to a level of confidentiality. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 340. I am opening the debate and asking if anyone is taking part in the debate? Mrs Pastuchová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-001-136.u58	Madam Vice-President, I am not so well aware of the Rules of Procedure right now, so I will just ask, because there are two minutes left, and my contribution is not so short, even if the Prime Minister is here, to postpone my written interpelation and answer it with the Prime Minister at the next meeting during the written interpelations - or will I start and interrupt?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-001-136.u59	Madame, begin, and at 11 o'clock, we'll stop the interpellation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-001-136.u60	Okay, thank you. Thank you. Prime Minister, I've had a respectable note written here, but that's not really going through my mouth right now. On October 18, 2022, I turned to you in the matter... [[Punching the benches in the right side of the hall.]] On October 18, 2022, I approached you on the absence of security clearances to a degree confidential with the Deputys of a member of the government, the so-called political deputy Jakub Dvořáček and Josef Pavlovic, who...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-001-136.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, please rest. Let the lady have room for her intervention. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-001-136.u62	...who operates at the Ministry of Health. These Deputys did not have a security clearance established by the internal regulation of the Ministry of Health. You didn't answer any of my questions, which is why I included this interpellation at the plenary meeting. [[11.00 hours]] For a brief recapitulation, I would like to say that I was based on an investigative article by journalist Mrs Bazalová, who drew attention not only to the absence of security clearances to a level of confidentiality, but also to a possible conflict of interest with Deputy Minister Jakub Dvořáček. Mr. Deputy Dvořáček came to the Ministry of Health from the Association of Innovative Pharmaceutical Industry, which brings together 34 companies marketing medicines in the Czech Republic, with the fact that he will manage the health part of the Czech Presidency in the Council of the European Union.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-001-136.u63	[[He's coming in.]] Madam, I am so sorry, I am interrupting this interpellation. We have run out of time reserved under the Rules of Procedure for the discussion of written interventions. Thank you, everyone. We will now continue the next programme, passing on the meeting management.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-001-136.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government. Have a good morning. Now we should focus on the fixed points, which is point 87, point 88, point 12, point 18, point 19, point 84 and point 7. We would then proceed with other points according to the approved agenda of the meeting. Let me remind you that this afternoon we're going to be dealing with point 137, which is oral questioning. Now I want to ask if anyone wants to get on the agenda? Yes, I have Mr. Benda's priority right here. Mr. Chairman, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-001-136.u65	Good morning. Mr Vice-President, Prime Minister, Minister, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. I would just ask that the point that is now classified as the third, that is, point 12, House press 307, local charges, be placed as the first point before those contracts. Apparently, it's gonna be a short opening word. It was delivered yesterday. It can't be estimated that it's gonna take a while. I'm afraid one of those contracts could theoretically get stuck. So this is my suggestion that the point that is today as the third point should be as the first point. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-001-136.u66	Yes, thank you, I'm registering your proposal, Mr President. The next one is signed in by Chairman Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-001-136.u67	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, colleagues. Let me do one point too. Of course, as an opposition, we would like to continue in the opposition window, and I therefore propose that we discuss paragraph 24, the proposal by Members of Tomio Okamura, Radim Fiala, Jan Hrnčíř and others on the issue of the constitutional law on the national referendum and on the amendment of the Constitution of the Czech Republic. It's House press number 8, first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-001-136.u68	Let me just ask you, Mr. Chairman, when would you like to include him? [[Member of Radim Fiala: 18 o'clock today.]] Thank you. Anyone else reporting for the meeting? If this is not the case, we will vote on two proposals. The first proposal is Mr Benda's proposal that we place item 12 and discuss it as the first item in our next meeting. I shall therefore begin the vote. I said, who's up for a proposal like that? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 52, 149 Members were voted in, 147 voted in, no one opposed. This proposal to amend the agenda has been adopted. As a further proposal, I have noted President Fiala's proposal to discuss item 24 at 6:00 today, which is the Constitutional Act on the referendum. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of such a proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 53, 151 Members voted in favour of 60, against 28. The motion was not accepted. This dealt with proposals for changing the agenda of the meeting. Before we proceed to discuss another point, I will ask the Vice-President of the Election Commission, Mr Karel Haas, to introduce us to the results of the elections that took place yesterday, which is Wednesday, January 11, 2023. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-001-136.u69	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Good morning, esteemed colleagues, esteemed members of the government. I'm just going to introduce you to the results of yesterday's election. I represent a suddenly ill colleague and chairman of the electoral commission Martin Kolovratník.
