ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u1	132. Proposal for the appeal of Daniel Köppl as a member of the Radio and Television Broadcasting Council (Municipal Document 1927/ This House document, which contains a proposal from the Chamber of Deputies, was delivered to you on 23. 2. 2023 and 13. 3. 2023 has been sent to your e-mail by Daniel Köppl's opinion on the proposal to withdraw him from his post as a member of the Radio and Television Broadcasting Council. I now ask that Mr Petr Letocha, on behalf of the rapporteur of the electoral committee of Jan Lacina, inform us about the election committee and present a motion for a resolution to the Chamber of Deputies. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of Mr Jan Lacino, I present to you, on behalf of Mr Jan Lacina, the House document number 1927 on the motion to dismiss Daniel Köppl as a member of the Radio and Television Council. Let me briefly summarise the current course of discussion of this proposal: 2 February 2023 was discussed on the electoral committee, which, by its resolution No. 86 of the 15th meeting recommended that the Chamber of Deputies dismiss Daniel Köppl as a member of the Radio and Television Council. Then I will read the resolution: "The Election Committee of the Chamber of Deputies after hearing the introductory words of Mr Jan Lacina, President of the Radio and Television Broadcasting Council . Arch. Václav Mencl and after the debate I. Notes that a member of the Radio and Television Broadcasting Council, Daniel Köppl, has committed acts which undermine its impartiality and independence, in particular: (a) by public appearance as a member of the marketing team in the electoral staff of the ANO 2011 candidate for the position of President of the Republic of Andrej Babiš at the ANO headquarters live on 14 January 2023, (b) by taking an active part in the election campaign and in the pre-election meetings of the ANO candidate for the presidency of the Republic of Andrej Babiš; II. recommends that the Chamber of Deputies withdraw Daniel Köppl from the post of member of the Radio and Television Council, given the point Also this resolution and in accordance with Article 7 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row shall be the amount reported in column 060 of this row. (c) Law No 231/2001 Coll., on the operation of radio and television broadcasting and on the amendment of other laws, as amended by Act No. 242/2022 Coll., according to which the Chamber of Deputies may remove a member of the Board from office if he has committed such an act which undermines his dignity, impartiality or independence or challenges the independence or impartiality of the Board; III. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies to adopt the following resolution: Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic pursuant to § 7 para. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row shall be the amount reported in column 060 of this row. (c) Law No 231/2001 Coll., on the operation of radio and television broadcasting and on the amendment of other laws, as amended by Act No. 242/2022 Sb., dismisses Daniel Köppl as a member of the Radio and Television Broadcasting Council; V. Instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic." On 23 February 2023, the motion to dismiss Daniel Köppl as a member of the RRTV was published on the website of the Chamber of Deputies as a House document 1927, delivered to Members and sent to Daniel Köppl, all in accordance with § 7 para. 8 of Act No. 213/2001 Sb. On 13 March, Daniel Köppl's opinion on the motion to withdraw from his post as a member of the RRTV was delivered to Members. It notes, inter alia, that the legal conditions for the removal from office of a member of the Radio and Television Council were not fulfilled and that the proposal for its appeal is politically motivated. Mr Köppl considers that he has not committed any action which would undermine his impartiality and independence, or would call into question his confidence in the independence and impartiality of the Board as a whole. On 2 May this item was on the agenda of the last meeting, today we are meeting this item again. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we will be voting on the removal of Mr Daniel Köppl from his post as member of the Radio and Television Broadcasting Council under the proposed resolution No. 86 of the 15th meeting of the electoral committee adopted on February 2, 2023, which I just read. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u3	Thank you, Mr Member, and I am now opening up a general debate. Vice-President Richterová is registered with priority rights. You mít the slovo, Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u4	I wish you a quiet evening, ladies and gentlemen, and I am very happy for myself and for the pirate MP's club that we have reached this point. What actually triggered the discussion that Councilman Daniel Köppl is not impartial is in a clear conflict of interest and cannot, for example, supervise the balance of electoral broadcasts of various televisions? It was triggered by a report from Andrej Babiš's campaign staff. I'm gonna show her this way for those who want to be reminded. [[It shows a photo on a large piece of paper.]] On the election staff of Andrej Babiš, Mr Köppl spoke as a member of Andrej Babiš's marketing team, a presidential candidate who was nominated through the signatures of members of the ANO movement, so that he was a party candidate, and Mr Köppl may have recommended the choice of Andrej Babiš, saying: "People should vote for him, and that is what I think is the main reason, because he is helping people." What is important is why do we really have to say now that such a conflict of interest is not acceptable? Because the Radio and Television Council is in charge of extremely important matters concerning the independence of the assessment of various possible offences by the media. On this basis, The Chamber of Deputies may withdraw a member of the Board if his conduct either undermines the dignity of the functioning of the Board or questions its independence or impartiality. And that's the key thing. Of course, this performance on Czech TV is not the only thing. Financial payments have been made or at least one financial payment to the Senate election campaign, once again working with the ANO movement, are further cooperation with other persons from the ANO movement. But this is crucial: the Radio and Television Broadcasting Council is to be impartial and, for example, to address possible violations concerning, for example, the preferential treatment of certain political movements or their views or the transmission of commercial communications of political movements or independent presidential candidates. He also discusses the analyses of Czech Television's pre-election and electoral broadcasts and other televisions, and what is important is that he supervises objectivity and balance. So in a situation where someone is clearly and proven to be working, actually in the long run, for a particular political movement or his candidate, he cannot impartially judge any violations committed in the election campaign, for example, when his client is actively involved in this campaign. [[18.10 hours]] And one last thing. Now, of course, in his statement, the councilman is still trying to downplay his speech as a member of the Andrej Babiš marketing team and formally contradicts whether the presidential campaign can be regarded as supporting the political movement. But that's the defense of the indefensible. It is a word-telling that seeks gaps in the wording of the law and, at the same time, word-telling that ignores the substance of the entire case, namely the unacceptable involvement of a particular member of the board for the benefit of a particular political entity. Finally, I quote once again what key negotiations are: the members of the Council must not speak in favour of political parties or movements and must not commit such acts which call into question the independence or impartiality of the Council. It is not only my opinion or the pirát that Councilman Köppl is to be dismissed, but a number of other expert opinions and opinions are attached to this appeal, including the opinion of the Radio and Television Broadcasting Council itself. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u5	Thank you, Madam Vice-President, and since the next one with priority has been signed in by me, but I'll wait until... if we can take turns, if I give the floor to my colleagues, there's no problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u6	I'll take over for a second. Please, Vice-President, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u7	Madam Vice-President, thank you. Madam, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government, I understand when you call off a policy, perhaps a Member, and we can wonder a hundred times whether or not it is worthy of the person concerned, but we all know very well that this is part of the policy. In fact, let us not be overly logical about this, we can look into the past of the Chamber of Deputies, and above all, let us not seek justice in this. That's the fate of politicians, that's true, that's reality, let's not be offended by that, even though of course we don't like it many times and certainly won't like it. But something else from my point of view is, if we are to call off non-politics from professional functions - here we can certainly agree that this is a professional function - who are literally and to the point guilty as you say, only by cooperating with a political party. I've never had a political career in my entire life, not that long, but especially as a minister or vice-premier, I've never reduced myself to anything like that. I've never illustrated anyone by who they belong to or who they don't belong to, I've always looked at whether that person is efficient, whether that person is decent and whether that person is doing what he's supposed to do. And I could have found many and many reasons why he or she would have left. Maybe you'll say that I'm naive, that this doesn't belong in politics, that an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth, and that it has to be done by professional people. I've never done it with my deputy, I've never done it with their professional directors. What I did when someone was inefficient or less capable, no matter how politely I put it, he left. Period. And here, let's answer if Mr. Köppl is competent. You know very well that he is one of the most experienced members of the board. You know very well that he is active in the academic sphere, that he is a person who is respected, and above all - and that is not little - that he is a decent person. And you know very well - and let's not play here, please - that the reason you're stating is a proxy reason. If we wanted to and we also started discussing individual council members, we might - but we don't have the hundred and eight - be able to illustrate and sort of exclude anyone from the council. It's a substitute reason, you know, we all know that. It's just that you want to prove your political strength, and it's true that if you want to do it, you will, and you will undoubtedly do it, but that doesn't mean it's a good thing, co-workers and colleagues. But I'm gonna stick to the facts, not my feelings, because it's obviously not the most important one. Facts: the reason for appeal is that he has committed acts that undermine the impartiality and independence of the Council - let us discuss the words of impartiality and independence in a moment - and that he has acted, as you said here, Madam Vice-President, in favour of the political movement YES. He did not comment on the questions raised allegedly impartially and independently. And now the evidence: yes, the TV photos, the captions - we can't be completely serious. What were the answers, please, dependent or party, or do you want us to say that they were not independent or impartial? You've been quoting one here, Madam Vice-President. We could still show that they are using the first person plural when we are already such a pinch, but above all, please, what does this have to do with the impartiality and independence of a member of the board? We didn't know that. Yes, you claim he was a member of Andrej Babiš's election team. But as you know very well - when we stick to the facts, I look only at the facts - in a transparent account or in a transparent account, so you think he worked there for free. And what does the law say? The requirement of an independent and impartial exercise of office relates to the powers of the Radio and Television Council, which means that it must be examined whether the conduct of a member of the Board is at risk of exercising those powers. So back to that requirement of independence and impartiality, it has to - and I'm stressing it - I don't write a lot of things to myself, I always say it out of my head, but this time I red-marked it because it's good to say: it has to relate to those activities that the board does. Perhaps we can agree that it may not be independent and impartial for other activities, in some way it could not exist, otherwise it could not work, it could just bury itself under the ground somewhere. So independence is that it is not subject to decision-making - of course, decision-making within the board, not decision-making about what it does at home or what it does elsewhere - to the instructions of another entity. We agree on that. And impartiality, I have also looked into this, whether I am accurate - does not decide for the benefit or for the benefit of a particular person. I'm sorry to read it that way, but it's important to say, because it's a matter of fundamental importance, of course, in relation to the council. And then, in the document, where you condemn it, it says: "His appearance is unambiguous" - I stress the word clearly - "associated with a breach of the duty of a member of the Council who must not appear in favour of political parties." I say again - they must not speak in favour of political parties or movements, so let us be precise. His remarks were about - you are right - Mr Babiš's people in the presidential campaign, not the party. I know you can say, yes, he's a pager, Mr. Babiš. Well, it is, but since we're legal here and we have a whole bunch of lawyers here, I beg colleagues who are far more experienced in this area and are good lawyers to say if it concerns the party or if it concerns the person. The President of Babiš was running for office. No doubt with the support of YES, we never covered that up, but support is something else. At the same time, the law does not prohibit being a member of a political party. You all know this very well, because the chairman is a member of the political party, namely the Odeesky, if I am not mistaken, but - and this is important - he must not hold office. And now I'm just thinking - and please, nicely, logically, not politically - let's think about this for a moment and think logically about whether a board member can be a member of a political party and whether he can avoid performing in its behalf or not? Do you think that's possible? I mean, it's in itself, the membership, it's probably already in the party's favor. So if we look at it this way, then we'd have to look at it from the angle of your colleagues who are behind the COO, who are there on the board. After all, by being a member, he logically works in his own way for her only by being a member. You're telling me he's a member of her and he doesn't really care? Just because he wants to support the party, he walks into that party, and I don't know anything wrong with that. It seems pretty normal to me, and we've never criticized it, not even with the chairman of the board. Yes, you can say that Mr. Dan Köppl works for me. Yes, that's right, I've never kept it a secret. He works for me as Vice-President of the House, we do a whole series of analyses, we send a lot of background and so on, you know him, and you know he's the man who's been doing this business his whole professional life. But the condition we're talking about here is that this activity on the board will not be a threat to the function of a board member. There is no mention that Mr Köppl specifically neglected his responsibilities to the Council - if you so show us - or did not fulfill them, or so clearly, and it is not clear, therefore, what is problematic about his pursuit of gainful activity. In conclusion - and I will not delay this for long, because there are still others logged in - from our point of view the legal conditions for his appeal are not fulfilled, and I am of the opinion that you too very well - if you do not know so you suspect. [[18.20 hours]] I remind you that we're talking about a guy who founded two of the most successful media magazines, a commercial that lectures, as I said before, a media theory at a university that is respected in a professional community and never questioned its expertise. So I don't even have a request - maybe a request to consider all of this in your decision making. And even if you decide, maybe party-wise, about an expert, so you can think about what I said. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u8	Thank you, and Mr Milan Brázdil is making factual remarks, and then Mrs Jana Pastuchová will be prepared and I will return the proceedings of the meeting. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u9	Thank you for the floor, Mrs. Richterová, through, Mrs. Richterová. I'd like to respond to you in fact. I remember: there is a day when the VZP, the board of directors of the VZP, is set up, and there are doctors, Members, something for the government, and Mr Hřib was there. And he started out in the sense -- exactly what you said: it's wrong that people are doctors on that board. He said, "I'm a doctor, but I'm not doing it, I'm just... I'm just having a degree, but I'm not a doctor, actually. He's actually a doctor, but he's not doing the job, because he's not an expert, but we've been there, I don't know, at an ambulance, a gynecologist, and so on, you actually shouldn't be here, because you - and I understand - you understand that, and we don't want that. He actually wanted there to be some - I don't know - anonymous people who don't understand anything, and that's how I felt about it. Jesus Christ, what can be better than when someone does something, does it their whole life, and then manifests themselves in the way they did, and thus is good. That's a good reaction. You are mistaken, Mrs Richterová, through Mr... already someone else, Mr President. It's probably a pirate look, I don't understand, they're young people mostly. But that's how we fix it: be good, study, then do it, and then practice, for what you've done and gained experience, you still have to realize for the benefit of other people. It's a good thing there are people like that. There shouldn't be any knuckleheads out there who don't understand. That's why I just wanted to respond to Mrs. Richterová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u10	Thank you, Ambassador, thank you for your time and I would like another one to be factual, and this is Mrs Pastuchová, then Mr Michálek, and then Mrs Oulehlová. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u11	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I didn't want to perform like Patrik Nacher says, but I have to. To me, when I'm being backed up by the media, because Dan Köppl is my assistant - I'm not ashamed of it, he's a great person for media and analysis, and I think these people aren't slow, but we know them, and it's important to have these people next to each other. You know, it seems to me from the Pirát, like there's a lot of slugs and little kale. I don't know if you've got it ready for someone else, and it's convenient for you that Dan Köppl was photographed somewhere by you. We all know you're such little snitches to Brussels, but now you're snitches among us. And I just want to say one thing that I think you're agreed to call Mr. Köppl off today, and we can talk here as long as we want. But I'd love to wait, I'd love to wait to see if Mr Köppl puts it in court and wins, if you, Vice-President Richterová, come here and apologize publicly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u12	Thank you and other applicants - now we have an actual YES and the next was President Michálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u13	Thank you for the floor. I would like to ask, Mr President, if we could actually conduct the negotiations of this Chamber at a level. I think we should turn to other colleagues and call them, you're the snitch here, so that's beyond decency, and we should stick to the Chamber's actions so that people don't have to be ashamed of who represents them here in Parliament. To what has been said here: do we really want the Radio and Television Broadcasting Council, which is to oversee the balance of radio and television media, to be composed of our assistants when it is to be an impartial body that is not supposed to be politically influenced? Well, let's do that, so let's design it, save a lot of money, we each put our assistant there, and it'll be considerably cheaper than paying their MPs' salaries. But the legislator wanted it different, the law is true, and we have to follow it, so let's leave all the substitute arguments that are being made here, like he's a decent person, that somewhere else maybe there was a gynecologist in the VZP and so on. Let's see what the law says. A member of the Board shall not serve in political parties or movements and shall not act in their favour. It has been proven here that there has been a violation of the law, and it is appropriate to call off such a person. You can, of course, come out here with a lot of different things to get out of this, I think it would be more honest to do this: yes, there was a mistake, he was acting on Mr Babiš's election staff, Mr Babiš was a candidate proposed by members of the ANO movement, he did not just run with support, he was directly proposed by Members YES, and I apologize for that mistake and there is a responsibility. That would be an honest way to stand up to it, but I don't think this is an excuse.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u14	Thank you. Another point of fact is Mrs Oulehlová, I do not see it here, so the other is Mr Brož. We're still in business. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It has been said here several times as a minor matter, I would like to respond to Mrs Richterová and now Mr Michálek, through the President, has also clarified this when he says: Let us act on a level. Dear friends, at the level is the proof, the photograph - I will read her description, as we had on the committee as an attachment to the evidence, a documentary presentation of the presidential candidates at the Faculty of Law. Certainly, Mr Köppl listens carefully in the company of Mr Prchal, a longtime worker of Andrej Babiš, among several other dozens. I wonder what you would say if we now brought a photograph of him talking to Mrs. Nerudová half an hour ago, who would he have been declared? What kind of evidence is this? What is it? I can remember how sometime two or three years ago at the Prague council, ODS colleagues were persecuted by representatives of the pirát for who they were seeing, who they met and who they met. Are you really letting these moreses in here again? That a person was photographed somewhere with someone, admitting to some kind of evidence of something? You can't be serious about this. It's not like it's a House-level meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u16	Thank you. I have a few factual points here, a total of four at the moment, and then with priority rights, the Minister has applied - I am merely stating that we must first ride the factual ones, and therefore there is another Vice-President Richterová. Minister, first I will arrive at factual points, then you have priority, and after Mrs Richterová, Mrs Peštová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor, and, at the same time, I would like very strongly to turn against the concept that has been raised here, and I will not repeat it. But what we want is to uphold the law. If you don't like the law, say so. But the law is clearly written in such a way that if a board member acts in a way that challenges the independence or impartiality of the board, that is the reason for the removal from office, and the facts that I have briefly outlined here are, however, much more detailed and are quite clear. The facts show that the performances on Czech television, which were more than one, appointed by the councilman, performed in style: "We started relatively late with the campaign. Our advantage is that everyone knows Mr. Babiš." Or, "We'll try to hold on to the slightest tone." So it showed a high degree of identification with the campaign itself, as well as the movement that nominated the candidate. And one more thing. In addition to a number of employment contracts that were mentioned by the Vice-President, or there is actually cooperation with Mrs Pastuchová, but in addition, a few thousand crowns have simply left the transparent account of the YES movement, held in the name of the political movement YES, in favour of the Councilman. [[18.30 hours]] These are all things that question trust in the independence and impartiality of the board as a whole. If such a person is a councillor, he may choose an engagement for the benefit of a particular political party or supervision of the independence of the media. I can't do both at the same time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u18	Thank you. The next enrollment is Mrs Peštová, then Mr králíček. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. First, I will respond here to Vice President Richterová through you. You've just said a beautiful sentence here: our point is to obey the law. That's a very nice sentence, if only you could remember it for all the laws. That means let it be the Rules of Procedure. You can't do that with the Rules of Procedure to uphold the law. Collection of laws, acquisition of efficiency. That's not what you're trying to do to uphold the law. You're declaring emergency status as you like it. It is only Mrs Richterová, through Mr President. Mr Michálek: Mr Michálek, did you not listen to Vice-President Havlíček, through Mr Havlíček, who made it clear here? If anyone is in a political party, they are already showing some sympathy for the political party. If you have a chairman of the board - a member of the ODS, he probably also shows his sympathy for the ODS. But I'm not punishing him for it, and I'm not saying he can't show his sympathy. When you quoted here the law that you must not perform functions: yes, but Mr Köppl does not perform any functions and is not a member. So just because someone shows some sympathy doesn't mean they're active in that party. You know, Mr. Ambassador, when you looked into the election staff afterwards - and now I might be uncomfortable - Mr. current president, there were a lot of people who currently hold various positions and show their interest to the president, too, okay? So then, if you want to illustrate, then you have to illustrate every single one of them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u20	Thank you, Madame. I ask Mr Králíček and then Mr Nacher to prepare himself. We're still in factual notes, and they're coming together here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u21	Mr President, colleagues, I would only ask two brief questions. If the pirát are shielding themselves here by upholding the laws, what is the difference between the ODS member, the chairman of the Radio and Television Broadcasting Council, who represents any opinions, some program of the party, what is the difference? Are you going to call him off, too? So will the President of the Radio and Television Council be dismissed when he is a member of the ODS, so I don't think he can be independent when you judge and crucify Mr Köppl, who is in quotes, as you call him, an assistant to some Members? That is the first question whether Vice-President Richterová, through Mr President or President Michálek, through him, could answer me. So the second question is: is this place going to be offered again by the YES movement, or are you going to put another pirát in there, as has already been said, that every fourth pirát is sucked into the state budget, so you're looking for more money? Will you answer that, too? So will it be offered the YES movement to nominate someone else for Mr Köppl, or will you just take it for yourself?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u22	Thank you. Next is Mr Nacher, then Mrs Pastuchová. We're still in business.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u23	Thank you for the floor. I originally wanted to speak when I was next, but so I volunteered in the factual one, because I want to respond to my colleague Jakub Michálek, through you, Mr Vice-President. Well, read the law accurately: "The members of the council must not also hold office in political parties or political movements and act in their behalf. " No or - and perform in their favor. That means in this logic of yours, when one condition is met, it already means breaking the law. As my colleague Robert králíček said here, in this case, you must have every member of the political parties who are there called off. This is the case that political parties or political movements must not hold office. So let me just remind you that there are often former MPs, former senators, and so on, a political spectrum across. Does that mean you're going to propose their appeal? Well, you won't, that's for sure, because it's just a typical double standard. You either have to comply with both of those terms, or the law isn't broken. Read it. This is clear as day, and it's as simple as a ladder as I say, okay? So then I'm going to talk about the double standard of the pirát in my speech, because that's how you look at these different functions differently. I'm gonna remind you how you've always fought against the political deputy, and now you don't mind, because that's where you have your own political deputy. I could just go like this, start with Prague and end up at national level. But I'm interested in the basic answer to the question of what the violation of the law is, if the sentence is written completely unambiguously. It's not there or, it's not excluded, it's an "a." They have to meet both of those criteria. Moreover, it is meant to be in favor of those political parties at the council meeting, not what they do in private life, while we are at it. That's for another analysis. So thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u24	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Please, Prime Minister Michálek, then Minister Bartoš and then Vice-President Richterová are signed up for action. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u25	Thank you for the floor. So we've heard another round of insults. Of course, when someone has butter on their head, they kick around. Too bad, Patrik, through Mr President, you're... I don't know if you understand what the law says when you read it here, that the board members must not hold office in political parties or movements and act in their favour. That's two things that council members are forbidden to do, not at the same time. That doesn't mean I have to be a clerk. I really do, I recommend - this is Professor Válková, so I'm sure she can explain. It is a very simple sentence for a person who does not have legal education and understanding. What follows from this is that the law as approved - and we did not approve of it - was approved by the traditional parties here, as you say - is fine if it is a political party member. It's not okay if he's doing his job. That's the first case. Secondly, it's okay if he's not performing, but he's not okay if he's performing in favor of the political party. So that's how easy it is. It's simply written in that law, and I think that anyone who approaches it with good faith is able to meet the conditions set out in that law. So we don't build straw shots here. We pirát didn't say we were supposed to cancel political deputy functions. We never said anything like that. If you want to pass this on to us, please back it up. But I think you're just building straw shots here. Really, let's focus on what we have on the agenda right now, and that's if Mr. Köppl meets the conditions set out in the law as set out there, and let's not come up with a thousand cases of what, when, who, where, another, and so on. Let us stick to the programme as required by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u26	Thank you for keeping time. With the de facto Minister Bartoš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u27	Thank you for the floor and I will disobey my previous speaker, Jakub Michálek, through Mr President, because I want to respond to Mr Králíček, through you, and perhaps to some colleagues. I think about two things. I still remember that the Member owes me a bag of soft beer after he tried to slide us in the House that no one could come out of the tender for the Director of the Digital and Information Agency except Ondřej Profant or Michal Bláha. Of the thirty people, we selected the current director of Mr Mesršmíd and none of these appointed in several rounds. One didn't even come forward and the other didn't make it to the final round. So I'm just reminding you, this is about the smugglers and the pirát sharpening their teeth in some place for their people. It turns out repeatedly that this is not our style, and please don't operate on it. The second thing is what we're talking about here about pirát in public office. We have local representatives, regional representatives, MEPs, MEPs, we have some people working at the offices. To date, if I am not mistaken, it is paid out of public office - and that is to say the opposition representative with the salary of the opposition representative or with a contribution to the mandate - 395 Pirates, the source of Wikipedia, while YES has 2 022 publicly paid office. So if we were to take it in absolute terms because we were confronted, I chose the two sides because this is some kind of dispute. So just so we don't create another straw shot here about pirát benefitting from public money at the expense of who I don't know, I just compared those 390s or how many against 2 022. But let's get back to the matter of whether a board member, how he proves that he is independent, what he can and can't do.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u28	Thank you, Minister. Have a nice evening. Colleagues, colleagues, we will continue to make factual remarks. Vice-President Richterová is applied for, and Mrs Voborská will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u29	Thank you again for the floor. So I will again actually specify what the law says, because there is clearly no will to read all the provisions concerning, for example, the councilman. In Section 7, it is a law on the operation of radio and television broadcasting, we have a membership of the Board written in paragraph 7: "The Chamber of Deputies may withdraw a member of the Board from office for these reasons" - and in point (c) is specifically, I quote - "if he has committed such a course which undermines his dignity, impartiality or independence, or questions the independence or impartiality of the Board." This is Section 7, par. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row shall be the amount Then there's a paragraph. 12. There is that the members of the board must not hold office in political parties or movements and act in their favour, so that is paragraph 2. 12, other provisions applicable to this case. And then there's a paragraph. 14: if they are engaged in a gainful activity in addition to their duties, they shall be obliged to do so in a manner which does not jeopardise the proper performance of the duties of a member of the Board. So all of this is to ensure that the principles of objectivity, balance are really taken into account, so that no political party or movement is unilaterally favoured in the whole of the broadcast programme and that the board can simply deal with offenses against this balance and objectivity. All these provisions can be traced to everyone, they can see what is involved not only in the fact that they were shown in favour of the councilman's payment from a transparent account, a publicly traceable ANO account, that he was part of the marketing team in the presidential candidate Andrej Babiš's election campaign, the nominated votes, the signatures of the members of the ANO movement, but then there were a number of other documents - thank you - from other meetings and public appearances. [[Time!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u30	Thank you for keeping time. She will now speak with Mrs Voborská, Mr Vondráček will be prepared. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u31	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to add to the debate here on what is or is not to be done by a member of the board I have been enrolled in the debate, but I would rather say it now, I hope I can make it. At its 19th meeting on 6 December 2022, the Council set priorities for its activities for 2023 and the first priority of the Board was to monitor the broadcasts before the President's election: "The election of the President of the Republic will take place in the Czech Republic in January 2023. The monitoring of the election broadcast is traditionally a priority of the board, because the broadcast significantly interferes with the election competition. The Board always sets the monitoring of pre-election broadcasts on the basis of an individually chosen concept, taking into account the type of elections, personnel and economic capacity, as well as current social needs and public interest. In the context of the presidential election in 2023, the Board decided on the processing of quantitative qualitative analyses of pre-election debates with candidates, or programmes with pre-election dramaturgy, which will be included in the broadcast on all-area radio and television programmes relevant in terms of electoral decision-making.' And I would like to say that the board members are to supervise balance and impartiality. The board members are all paid by the state to be impartial, not to be on the side, but not to be on anybody's side, to be on his side. And we think that this member we're talking about has violated. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u32	Thank you. Mr Vondráček is now in office and Mrs Válková will prepare herself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u33	Thank you for the floor. I would just like to respond briefly to the ongoing debate. Of course, I'll be the first to welcome us here to have a momentary, correct, and let's say in some kind of legal regime. The problem is that the debate is undignified in its nature, that the debate is simply based on some of the Pirate Party's castration policies, and that is what follows the unpleasant feelings that we have of it, at least most of us who are present in the hall at the moment. I did not notice any insults in the speech of my colleague Králíček in this context, nor in Patrik Nacher's performance, so I do not really know what Mr Michálek responded to. I would only ask him to think further about the fact that I actually perceive a certain difference in support of a presidential candidate who is simply running for himself, even if he is a nominee or is proposed by a group of Members and by the support of a particular political party. In short, and well, it's not the same. You really need to judge these performances in some context. And against a particular political party, as the law requires, Mr Köppl did not, in my view, speak or speak in favour. If you think about it from this point of view, I'm going to ask for some material consideration. Indeed, membership of the political party is, in my opinion, a stronger relationship and a more important link than being a paid assistant for some media services. That's certainly not a party function. About the first part of the terms. The fact that it's probably not cumulative, both of these conditions, maybe we'll have a debate about that here, and I know that my colleague Válková volunteered, so I'd leave that up to her. [[Time!]] I didn't make it all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u34	You can log in again, if necessary. Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Válková, with a factual point, will be prepared by Mr králíček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u35	Thank you. I will follow this up smoothly, actually hope to continue in the same context as Mr Radek Vondráček, through you, Madam Vice-President, spoke. It is, of course, a standard interpretation where the clutch "a" means cumulative and both conditions must be met simultaneously. In this context, it would seem simple, and it would basically mean that if one of those conditions was not fulfilled, nothing was actually happening, because the person did nothing. However, from the point of view of content interpretation and from the point of view of the legislation itself and of the meaning and purpose it pursues, we must look away from the cumulative condition and give priority to the content language interpretation over that strictly speaking theoretically, when it "a" means the cumulation of both conditions together. So in this particular case, I'm leaning towards just fulfilling one of those conditions. But what is definitely clear from the debate that has taken place here leads me to conclude that, in fact, the assumptions in our particular case of Mr Köppl's appeal are not fulfilled, although those conditions alone would be sufficient to satisfy each of them so that they do not meet those conditions. But I have come to believe from the discussion that the arguments that have fallen here have been directly representative and have not convinced me. [[Time!]] So, regardless of the fact that the condition could be applied and interpreted separately, I do not think that the prerequisites for us to be able to assess Mr Köppl's case are met by the optics of this provision. [[Time!]] [[- Madam!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u36	Yes, I gave you the opportunity to finish the sentence, please respond next time after the first warning. Thank you. Please, Mr králíček and then Mr Nacher.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u37	Madam Vice-President, I'm gonna cut this short to settle it, and I'm giving my time to Professor Válková. I want to respond to Mr. Michálek. Mr Mr Michálek or Mr Michálek, just for starters, through Madam President - in insulting me, I think I am still a beginner compared to you. [[18.50 hours]] However, neither you nor Minister Bartoš answered a single question. Although Mrs Voborská claimed that the party is more independent than the non-scoring party, you did not reply to me if, therefore, you will call off the President of the Radio and Television Council, who is a member of the ODS and holds - even publicly - party views. After all, it represents the ODS's views and therefore cannot also be impartial in the decision-making of the Radio and Television Broadcasting Council. And yes, I owe Mr. Bartoš a bag of soft beer, but maybe if I didn't say so then, Mr. Profant or Mr. Bláha is sitting there. But when I said it, he chose someone else. And I didn't even get the answer to the question whether the place after Mr. Köppl gets the YES movement, or the pirát keep it. No one answered me either. Please, Mr Michálek, through Madam President, answer these two questions! The last question is the pirát and the STAN movement. Where were you in 2020 when Vice-President of the Radio and Television Council, Mr Marek Poledníček, ran for the region? Where have you been? Where'd you guys hang around here and say independence and that...? [[A round of applause for Members to move YES 2011.]] Because it didn't suit you, but now you want Mr. Köppl's job! Then admit it! You're ridiculous!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u38	Thank you. Now, with Mr Nacher in fact, Mrs Peštová will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u39	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I'm also interested in the theory that when someone's in a political party, they're more independent than when someone's working for someone. That's new, and for me, it's a beautiful demonstration that right now is a good time. But I imagine if there was a member of the YES movement, you would say that party membership is much worse than working for someone. I'll remind you that if I remember correctly, there was an assistant to one of the Minister of Culture, if that's the case. But since he had the right opinions, from your point of view, it didn't matter. And when someone was a counselor or an assistant, one day it's okay, one day it's okay. But I wanted to sign up for the speech of the Minister of Regional Development, which is when he started mixing people who are the umbilical cord of connection with the public budgets for the Pirates, and the elected policies for the YES. But he actually connected two completely incoherent things there. It is as if he has told us that there are 71 Members who have been elected, and there are only four. How can he compare this? So you should have had a better result and you could have had more regional representatives or local politicians! [[A round of applause for members of the YES 2011 movement.]] That's where it was about who was appointed to that post, not who was elected there. Nobody blames anyone. And I'm going to remind you here what I said you promised different selection procedures and so on, but the Deputy Ministers are your nominees here to the Chamber of Deputies who have been circled, so they weren't expected forward. So there can't even be a word about a competition that if they weren't circled, they're sitting here as MPs. Because they were circled, just like the undersecretary's position. There's no more proof than that! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u40	Time! Thank you. Mrs Peštová will now appear, then Mr Juchelka, and I am just saying that Minister Dvořák has previously volunteered and, given that he is not registered in the system, according to the practices we had here, we are also allowing ministers to speak in this way with de facto effect. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u41	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Well, I'd like a short one for the Member or Vice-President Richterová, through you. The same is true in the Service Act. You also have in the Service Act that officials can actually be members of the parties, the movement, but they must not perform any functions in the movement and in the party. So if we're going to talk about functions here, then we have to define what this function is, if it's already a function that I'm part of something, then that's what you think is a function, then yes, that's why a lot of or a lot of officials are guilty because they're part of a party, and I thought we were in a democratic country, and that's basically not what they're blamed for. It is blamed if they were to do any higher functions, that is, some chairman of a basic organization or district or regional and so on. That's one thing. And then to Mrs Voborská, through Madam President. I didn't really understand what you meant by the contribution, I'm sorry. The Czech Council cannot interfere with the program. She may need to monitor, she may see how much was devoted in that period, but she cannot interfere with what will be in the programme. First of all. Secondly, it certainly did not affect the election in any way, whether there would be more or less of this program. But if we want to be objective, then we should look at the two audits that were there for the elections, and when Czech television was also accused of being biased. She was biased in the big debate, when in her essence she hurt or held one side, and the other, she wasn't objective, she wasn't in the newsroom, and so on. So if we want to criticize objectivity here, then we should see how biased Czech television is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u42	Thank you. Now, Mr Juchelka, then Minister Dvořák. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u43	Thank you very much. I will be a little more extensive then in my contribution to the debate, but I would like to respond to my honourable colleague Voborská, because we really, as Mr Vondráček says, through Madam President, that the political mandate, the political function, or political membership, is stronger than that, of course, when this person is sitting there without any party or party membership or movement. When you say that this topic has been discussed there - it is discussed in every council, whether it be the Czech Television Council, the Czech Radio Council and, of course, the Great Radio and Television Council, where Mr Mencl is indeed a member of the ODS. In the Czech Television Council we had a long time René Kühn, who was the official advisor of Minister Zaorálek, Minister of Culture. We have a member of the ODS Mrs Wenigerová, who is also dealing with this, of course, and Mr Jandák, who we considered to be ČSSD in the Czech Radio Council, which is still there. So I think that these things are always being dealt with there, just when there are also nominees for individual political parties, as it simply and simply is, what we are going to say to each other, and the Radio and Television Broadcasting Council has it this way, because we nominate individual candidates and, of course, we choose them according to some key. So I really want to stand up for Mr Köppl, who is a great media expert, marketing expert, has a place there, certainly more than anyone else who sits there has something to say because he has really ten years of media experience in the Czech Republic. I recognized him myself as the publisher, not personally, of the fantastic magazine Media and Marketing. [[The President: Time]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u44	Thank you for keeping time. Minister Dvořák is now in office and Mr Vondráček will be prepared. Please, you have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u45	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I had a slightly different idea of what my first entry would look like. I'm a little flustered because for the first time, I have the honour to speak to this fine choir, albeit somewhat thin, but unfortunately, I was provoked by the performance of the outgoing MP who used the word "squealer" and even added Brussels snitch to it. And I must say, as Minister for European Affairs, I felt very uncomfortable. I mean, we still have a little bit of a relationship with this state, like it's some kind of enemy. In Western countries, in functioning democracies, the announcement of someone who is acting against the law or the rules is not considered as snitching, but as civil honor and duty. First of all. This means that if someone warns wrong behavior, he is not a snitch, but he is doing the right thing. We should learn. [[19.00 hours]] Secondly, I do not want to question Mr Köppl's expertise at all, but if he has committed himself to becoming a member of the electoral staff of the Party's candidate for Presidentship, this has significantly exceeded the limits that have so far been set by someone being a member of either party. He has simply behaved very exceptionally, and I personally believe that in such a situation a person who gets suspicious that he is going beyond his jurisdiction or that he is acting contrary to the rules should not wait for him to be dismissed, but should resign honestly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u46	Thank you. Now, with Mr Vondráček in fact, Vice-President Richterová will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u47	Thank you for the floor. For starters, Minister, if you had any other idea about your first appearance in the House, you didn't have to perform. It wouldn't have been that obvious anyway. Secondly, I would like to thank Madam President for having Mrs Válková finish talking. It was a very sensitive assessment of the situation. I think we've done nothing wrong and that every meeting should be like this. Well, thanks for that. I would like to finish the debate I had about the difference between the presidential campaign and the party campaign, although it is largely academic - you have votes and you are voting for something, but maybe this tape here will be the basis for some trial when Mr Köppl turns to the relevant court, so I am glad to hear it. Indeed, being a supporter of a presidential candidate, although nominated by a member of Parliament, does not mean that he is acting in favour of a political party. There were more candidates who had signatures from different senators, you can't call them all party. The presidential campaign is really such that everyone goes there for themselves, and it's very specific, especially in the second round, when eventually one has to choose. Often people choose the lesser evil. They often regret voting as they voted after the election. I can assure you that even in this case, there are a lot of people who regret voting as they voted in this presidential campaign. This means that I think it would be correct for this argument and this part of the argument not to be used again. Let us please put this aside and try to concentrate on whether Mr Köppl's position as an assistant and his activities in the Council is related in any way, whether it has actually affected any particular step or case of a decision as a member of the Council, or has sometimes acted against the law in the exercise of the office of a member of the Council. I have no such knowledge, and it is not even proposed by those who make this proposal. The last sentence: gainful activity is indeed not incompatible with membership of the Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u48	Thank you. Now, with a point of fact, Mrs Richterová is registered. The Vice-President shall be entered in writing and prepared by Mr Juchelka. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u49	Thank you very much for the floor. I really do very briefly and in fact, in order not to distort the facts. What's going on here? That Councilman Köppl, who was elected a member of the Radio and Television Broadcasting Council in July 2021, before the elections, the Chamber of Deputies, or even another legislature, raised so many fears of the various people that a number of submissions to the Radio and Television Council were received because he was publicly speaking in favour of the presidential candidate Andrej Babiš. Why am I reminding you of this? Because here from some performances, it sounds like this wasn't the facts, like it wasn't a person who said, "We started the campaign late. Our advantage is that everyone knows Mr. Babiš. We'll try to keep that rather mild tone." Such a level of identification with the campaign, with Andrej Babiš, who ended up saying, "People should vote for him, and that's what I think is the main reason, because he's helping people." These are the facts that have aroused the concerns of many people about independence, the impartiality of this councilman, including me. I was shocked. Then it became clear that it is not only cooperation within the presidential campaign of Andrej Babiš, that it is much wider cooperation, much longer term, including financial implementation, and these are all things that are contrary to the law, contrary to the law, where we simply want the law to be respected, and that is the fact that the fact that has been demonstrated is summarised in the motion for a resolution, it is in the House document, everyone can read it, and everyone can judge whether what some here present is a distortion of facts, as it appears to me or not. Please make a mistake. Let Mr. Köppl be called off at last.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u50	Thank you. Now, Mr Juchelka, with a point of fact. Mr. Mr. králíček will be ready. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u51	Thank you very much. I think what Vice-President Richterová has done here at the moment is really over the line. To tell us here as a judge who is a proven deed, it really doesn't compare. Madam Vice-President, you are not the Vice-President of any tribunal, but the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u52	Please address me through.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u53	Your way, yes. I would, of course, like to respond, apart from the Vice-President and the Minister. Minister, we don't think so, and neither does Mr. Köppl, and I'm here to read his defense that he's in some kind of violation of the rules or the law. If this proves to be true and, of course, not by the mouth of Vice-President Richterová, by your means, then, of course, let him resign and I will be the first to vote in favour of it, but I will always be opposed to being photographed by some camera, then he's been pointing it all out, writing some defamatory ridiculous descriptions about it, and this as official material and stalking, ugly police material he put as official material on the election committee. I really don't like this, and I will always fight it, because it is one of the foundations of democracy, so that everyone can move freely where they want, listen to the lectures they want, and don't let anyone take pictures of it, because I was photographed when I had some meetings here at the coffee shop in the Malostranské beseda by some assistants from the pirát, and immediately it ran on social networks, as someone can afford to be here as an MP meeting with this faulty person. It's like the last regime, don't be mad at me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u54	Thank you. Mr králíček will now make a point of fact, Mr Vondráček will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u55	I would also like to respond to Vice-President Richterová. Madam Vice-President, through Madam President, you, too, raise concerns among many people. I'm gonna be annoying today. I'd like to hear the answers to two simple questions. Will you recall President Mencl, who was a Member, as an executive politician, thus clearly presenting the views of the ODS? I'm not judging him by that, I'm just saying. And who will replace Mr. Köppl? Will it be the Nomination of the Yes movement, or will it be the Nomination of the Pirates or the STAN? Nobody answered my question, and I'm going to perform several, hundred times, because I want to hear the answer, because the answers to these two questions will answer when you're presenting your interpretations of laws, your courts, whether your interests are truly godly and you want to keep that law, or you need another place for your friends. Then say it and we'll be done in five minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u56	Thank you. We've exhausted all the factual points. We are now going back to the general debate when Mr Juchelka is signed up. Before I give him the floor, I will read the apology: Pekarová Adamová Markéta apologizes from 18 to 19.15 for work reasons, Vladimír Balaš from 18 to 19 for work reasons, Dufek Aleš from 18.30 to 20.30 for work reasons, Kobza Jiří from 18 for health reasons, Mračková Vildumetzová Jana from 17 to 18 for work reasons, from 18 for family reasons, Němečková Crkvenjaš Zdeněk from 17.30 for health reasons, Richter Jan from 17.30 for health reasons, Sadovskýý Petr from 17.30 for health reasons. Jana Černochová apologizes from members of the government from 19:00 for work reasons and Martin Kupka from 16 to 18 for work reasons. So many apologies. I ask the Member to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u57	Thank you very much. As I have announced, I will be quoting in a moment the defense of Daniel Köppl, written by the President of the Chamber of Deputies, who probably wasn't even taken into account. That is why we have been meeting here for several times in my opinion completely useless. [[19.10 hours]] I quote: "According to the proposal, the reason for recalling the fact that I have committed acts that undermine my impartiality and independence or question the confidence in the independence and impartiality of the board as a whole. At the same time, it is claimed that I acted in favour of the political movement YES 2011. I consider it undoubted that the requirement for independent and impartial performance of office relates to the powers of the Radio and Television Council, which means that it must be examined whether the conduct of a member of the Board is at risk of exercising those powers. The powers of the Radio and Television Broadcasting Council are enshrined in Section 5 of Act No. 231/2001 Coll., known as the Council's competence. The list of activities belonging to the Board shows that this is primarily the exercise in the fields relating to radio and television broadcasting itself, namely the supervision of compliance with radio and television broadcasting law and the conditions laid down in the decision to grant a licence or in the decision to register, grant, amend or withdraw licences, impose administrative penalties under the law, publish various documents, whether internal in nature or decisions issued, and so on. The requirement of independence and impartiality of a member of the Board must necessarily relate to those activities carried out by the Board. It would make no sense for a member of the Board to have to be independent and impartial in any of its activities, i.e. he could not take positions and positions on various matters or issues which are not related to the very application of the Board. The reason for the removal from the office of a member of the Board may therefore be only one of his actions which calls into question the independence and impartiality of a member of the Board when deciding on the matters entrusted to the Board. Independence must be understood as a condition when a member of the Board is not subject to the instructions of another entity. An impartial situation must then be understood in which a member of the Board does not decide for the benefit or for the benefit of a particular person. On the one hand, I would not be subject to any instructions, either to a decision for the benefit or for the benefit of a person. Performance on Czech Television: The proposal states that on 14 January 2023 I performed live on Czech Television as a member of Andrej Babiš marketing team, running for president of the Republic. Similarly, I was marked on the Event broadcast by Czech Television a day later. As for my designation as a member of the marketing team, it was a designation chosen by Czech Television and put on the air. Since no one consulted me on this label, I did not have the opportunity to influence it or to oppose it. In fact, I didn't even know that I was marked this way on the Czech Television broadcast in the first or second case. I've never been a member of Andrej Babiš's marketing team. Furthermore, my specific statements are quoted and I am blamed for speaking in the plural in connection with the leadership of the presidential campaign of Andrej Babiš. At the same time, however, it is claimed that I did not express myself impartially and independently on the questions raised, but that it was not specifically stated in what my answers were impartial and independent, or which specific statements were meant to be and which questions I should have answered in this way. Only two statements are quoted using the first person plural. It is not clear what the two statements cited have to do with my impartiality and independence as a member of the board. If these two statements mean that I am independent and impartial, this necessarily means that I cannot have an opinion on certain issues that I could publicly present. At the same time, it is not clear that I acted in favour of Andrej Babiš. A statement of certain facts cannot be seen as a support for someone. If I really wanted or should have acted in favour of Andrej Babiš, I would certainly have recorded my specific statements, which would have sounded that way, but I did not make any statements. My appearance is clearly linked to a confirmed violation of the duty of a board member who must not appear in favour of a political party or political movement. There is no doubt that I have not acted in favour of any political party or political movement. Although my statements concerned only Andrej Babiš's presidential campaign, not the YES movement. It is widely known that Andrej Babiš's election campaign did not lead the ANO movement. It should be pointed out that the law does not prohibit board members from being a member of a political party or movement, only forbidding them to stand up for political parties or movements of office. If a board member can be a member of a political party, it is a question of whether he can avoid acting in their favour, because even mere membership of a political party or movement could be interpreted as representing them in their favour. Membership is not prohibited, as has been said. To work for Karel Havlíček and Jana Pastuchová: I am blamed for acting as assistant to Karel Havlíček. My activity consists mainly in consulting and consulting activities for Karel Havlíček, processing of documents, creating analyses and so on. I do not support or promote such activity on the outside of the ANO 2011 movement. It's a standard activity that I use my knowledge for. The essence of my work is also confirmed in the proposal referred to in the employment agreement, which implies that I only carry out administrative work. The performance of a gainful activity shall be compatible with the function of a member of the Board. The only condition of the law is that such a gainful activity will not jeopardise the proper performance of the function of a member of the Board, i.e. the performance of those tasks associated with membership of the Board. The performance of the work for Karel Havlíček and Jana Pastuchová did not endanger the proper performance of my duties on the board. It is not claimed that I would neglect or fail to fulfil my duties on the board for other activities. If I could be directly a member of a political party or movement, which the law implicitly allows, it is not clear what is problematic about the pursuit of gainful activity for members of the ANO political movement. To pay for analysis for the ANO movement: payment of CZK 5 000 was charged to me for previous analyses of publicly available data and analysis of the behaviour of the inhabitants of the Hradec Králové Region, in connection with the Senate elections in 2022. It was again a standard occupation that did not affect my proper performance as a member of the board. Again, it should be pointed out that the pursuit of gainful activity is not prohibited by law by the members of the Board. The overall assessment of my activities: the proposal is generally based on the fact that I acted in favour of the ANO 2011 movement, which is documented in my statements concerning the election campaign of Andrej Babiš in the presidential elections. Since, according to the proposal, Andrej Babiš's candidacy was proposed by members of the ANO movement, I performed in fact "in favour of the ANO 2011 political movement." However, the presidential campaign was not conducted by the ANO movement, but by Andrej Babiš. Any performance I perform must thus be interpreted in the context in which it was done, and I cannot be moved by intentions which I have not shown in any way. It should be stressed once again that membership of the political party is not prohibited for the members of the Council, so it is permissible for a member of the Council with a particular political party or movement to identify himself through his membership in it. However, this must not affect the impartiality and independence of a member of the Board. I am not a member of the YES movement, so my relationship is significantly weaker than it could be legally. The proposal does not claim any decision of the Board or of my other procedure in the performance of the Board member's duties, in which the claimed or rather anticipated dependence and bias should be expressed. None of them ever showed up. Nor is it incompatible with membership of the Board if it does not prevent me from performing my duties as a member of the Board properly. Therefore, the legal conditions for my removal from office are not fulfilled." This is the end of the citation of how the defence was written directly by Daniel Köppl to the President. I wanted to read it here to disprove all the things that fell here, which fell from the Vice-President, through you, Olga Richterová. I might as well give her that statement here, but I assume she probably has it, and that, of course, as we can see, we've been dealing with it for the fourth time, so she doesn't agree with it. And in my opinion, this whole situation here is merely due to the fact that the Pirate Party here, I would say, wants to dehone and sort of bully someone who is connected with the YES movement or who campaigned for the finalist of the presidential competition. So I'd like to ask the House of Honor not to vote for Dan Köppl's appeal, because there's no reason for that. It's just what the pirát de facto want, and who knows what's behind all this is and is behind it. I do not like the material with which the Vice-President, through you, came before the election committee. I do not like this resolution, which I did not vote for and which, of course, was overvoted by members of the government coalition. I don't like this argument here, which is clear and which is defensive, which is simply saying that something like this has happened. At the same time, nothing like that happened, as we hear it from some of the mouths here, that the deed was proved. It's just one big nonsense and one big lie. [[19.20 hours]] So I ask too much of this honored House not to jump on some I would say to the prying practices of some Members and Members' clubs to keep a cool and rational head, because that is what democracy is about, and that is what it is about, and it is precisely what values like freedom, freedom to move, freedom to believe something, freedom to have a relationship calmly with a party, whether it is a member or not, but it certainly should not somehow exclude it from society and from any other elections unless it violates the law. And Daniel Köppl simply didn't break it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u58	Thank you. Your speech raised a point of fact, Vice-President Olga Richterová. Please, Madam Vice-President, you have the floor. Before I give it to you, I will read an apology: he apologizes to Julius Špičák since 19.15 for medical reasons. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, very briefly. Each of us has the freedom to choose. It is perfectly okay if one chooses to participate in PR activities, marketing and election campaigns, it is perfectly okay if one is part of such campaigns by a political party, only it is contrary to the fact that one can perform impartially the function of councillor in the Radio and Television Council. And why is the impartiality of the councilmen important? Because this Council is discussing violations, such as the preferential treatment of certain political movements or their views or matters relating to the broadcasting of commercial communications of political movements or independent presidential candidates or, I would point out, possible violations in the election campaign. So how could a person judge this in relation to television broadcasts if he himself was actively involved in one party or one candidate? It doesn't make any sense! Therefore, I just want to remind you that this is the substance of the matter, which is why the electoral committee also stated that, after the debate which took place, where there was, of course, an opportunity to clarify the Councilman's view, the electoral committee stated that the negotiations described, what is documented, undermines the impartiality and independence. So please let me think that everyone can freely choose where they want to be professionally realized, everyone can choose which team they will represent, but it is not possible to want both, to be a councillor who will judge impartially and independently media content, and at the same time dig for one side. That's the point. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u60	Thank you. Another factual - Mr Juchelka, Mrs Peštová will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u61	Thank you very much. I must, of course, respond to Vice-President Olga Richterová, through you. I'm always very fond of the Madam Vice-President's quick judgments. She's just really, really, really fast with everything. So I would like to remind you here that, for example, thanks to a quick court, which had both Prima and Czech Television on TV, she's being sued for identifying one unnamed organization as living out of pro-Russian money. That's a lie to her, and this quick trial simply rewarded Olga Richterová with a civil lawsuit for just lying. We all remember -- she really lied like that -- we all remember the quick trial or the quick action of that fast tweet, when she came out of the coalition meeting and wrote to all the citizens that there would be a windfall tax in 2022, and the Prague Stock Exchange went up 31 billion crowns. So these are the quick negotiations, the quick judgments, the quick condemnation of individual people, the things, the organizations that aren't in her, I'd say the thought stream. And of course I don't like this, because it's not a democratic thing, it's not a matter of value, it's not a matter of respect for other opinions, other attitudes, it's simply and simply, as we've been used to here in the last parliamentary term, and for example in the electoral committee it was more obvious, I just can't say it any other way, but stalking. Because by a large camera photographing at a distance of some person I really want to dehoneze, it has to do with how I was also involved in the last term. And it's not very pleasant, because then, of course, a wave of resistance will rise against you on social networks. So I would be very careful with those quick courts, especially from the Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u62	Thank you. Now, Mrs Peštová, with a factual point, will then be followed by Vice-President Olga Richterová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u63	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I wanted not to make amends, rather ask Vice-President Richterová, when she says here that the board is deciding on the impartiality, or, respectively, whether any parties are favored or not, and then they have to figure out whether or not it is true, as if he has a particular example. Because I gave you this particular example, that there are two audits that clearly say that Czech television was impartial - it was not impartial, that is, it sided with one side, that is, to the current President Pavel, and it did not side with the other side. It's just the audits are here. And how did the Czech Council react to this? Well, these two reports or, respectively, these two audits are not in the annual report of Czech Television because they did not agree. So, on the one hand, you're giving awful seriousness to the board what that advice can do, but then when you look into those intestines, you find that, in fact, it can't really do anything. In its essence, it can mostly state something there, but in the finals it has absolutely no power to influence what gets on the program, what will be on the program, whether someone will benefit or not. If you're objective and you look at your objective eyes - your eyes, now I'm involved, sorry, sorry - and you'll look at it, you have to state for yourself that Czech television is currently in favor of a ruling coalition. That's right, it's just like that! I thought that when it was last term and she was protesting the opposition, it would be turned around, right? It is logical that when there is always opposition, they are the ones who are the poor in their nature, and that now suddenly they turn back to the other side. [[Time.]] And it's the other way around. [[Time.]] There's still one side involved.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u64	Thank you. Vice-President Richterová is registered with a point of fact, then Mrs Jana Pastuchová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u65	Dear colleagues, I don't want to drag this out any longer, which is why I'm calling on no longer to respond, but I want to stress that what Mr. Aleš Juchelka indicated was a little wrong, he was pushing something that I didn't say, and, of course, we're living in a legal state and we're gonna see what happens. Now we are also at something where it is possible that the councilman will appeal to the court, but we will decide whether a person who recommends the choice, for example, of the head of the ANO movement, of the Andrej Babiš movement, with the words "People should vote for him, and I think that's the main reason he's helping people" - I say this as a whole quote, because it was the electoral slogan, it was exactly the main claim, so that this person is actually supposed to oversee any misdemeanors related to the imbalance or non-objectivity of the broadcast. Anyone who thinks there's something unbalanced can turn to advice with incentive, so if anyone notices anything, it's his right to deal with the council. But I'm just pointing out, here in this debate, it's just that everyone can choose whether or not to be on that side of independence, the impartiality of the one who stands outside and evaluates it, and then, of course, let them act under the law. But the law makes it clear that if a person oversees independence and balance, but is proven to be publicly in favour - and now what is important - of one particular political force in this country, he simply should not be the councillor. It's that simple. You should have chosen whether this particular person would be the councillor for you or on your marketing team. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u66	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Jana Pastuchová and then Mr králíček will now take a stand. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u67	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Vice-President Richterová, you're confirming me that you're really obsessed with Babiš and his team. [[- Through, please.]] I said through. No? Okay. But I will repeat the question of my colleague Králíček, through you. None of the pirát of your other three are sitting here. Please answer us one thing. Do you mind that the Chairman of the Radio and Television Council is a member of the ODS? Are you going to deal with this, too? Please answer us. You're reacting to everything. You're looking at the citizens in that camera over there. I haven't learned it yet, because I prefer to talk to my colleagues. But come and answer this. Will you give the place that belongs when you call off Mr. Köppl today, the YES movement that he belongs to, or do you have it for someone else? And please, will you consider that the chairman is a member of the ODS?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u68	Thank you. Now, Mr králíček with a factual remark, then Mrs Peštová will speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u69	I would add the question, because Vice-President Richterová said here in her speech that if we don't like something, we should turn to the council. So, Madam Vice-President, through Madam First Vice-President, I understand that you know that the President of the Radio and Television Council is a member of the ODS, but you will close your eyes because when you call off Mr Köppl, you will get a warm seat, but you are also telling us if you don't like it, so please contact the council? I mean, you guys are telling the law. So if you know there's something wrong, you should actively point that out. Then I'll fill in my colleague and ask you for an answer. Will you call off the chairman of the board? And whose place will this be after Mr. Köppl's possible appeal?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u70	Thank you. The next enrollment is Mrs Peštová. Mr Kasal will be ready. Please. And before I give you my word, I will read an apology: Mr Špičák has apologized again since 19.15 for medical reasons. Please, you have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u71	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Unfortunately, I have no one else to ask, because Mrs Richterová has just left, so it would probably be pointless for me to ask any questions in the air when there is no one here to ask. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u72	Thank you. Now, with Mr Kasal, in fact, to prepare the Member... Madame's been erased. Excellent. No, she checked in again. So, Mrs Oulehlová, are you reporting or not? Very good, thank you. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u73	Madam President, thank you for the floor. I'll ask anyway. I'm going to ask the absent Vice-President Richterová, I wanted to ask, quite emotionally here she said, how many people wrote and how she complained that it was a huge problem, so I'd like to ask if it's the same way that I met when I expressed myself in the election campaign on the situation and health of Mr. Andrej Babiš's son. And just so you know what happened next. There's been a filing - I'm also telling the Minister, he's not here - there's been an application to the Medical Chamber that I've exceeded my jurisdiction. And that's what conscious citizens said. However, what was very interesting was that those conscious citizens were Mr Jiránek's assistant to the Pirate Party and Mr Pikal for the Pirate Party. So I'm asking if the same things are being introduced here in this situation?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u74	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'm just pointing out that the rapporteur had to go to the bathroom and that he would return shortly so that you would not miss him. Thank you for understanding. Now, with a point of fact, Mrs Oulehlová is registered and then Mr králíček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u75	Hello, esteemed colleagues. Vice-President Richterová has actually repeated to us twice here through the President, or in two entries, what Mr Köppl said. Mr. Köppl said that people should vote for Mr. Babiš because he helps people. But Mr. Köppl told the truth. He didn't say anything that wasn't true. None of us give our salaries to help singles. The Agrofert Foundation helps hospices, helps people who are in crisis, helps parents who have sick children, and because of the way this government runs it, they don't even have gas. Mr Köppl did not lie, Mr Köppl told the truth, and I do not know what is bothering Mrs Richterová. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u76	Thank you. Mr králíček will respond with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u77	Actually, as I was saying, I actually understand. I see only one purpose, because we disagree here, we disagree with Vice-President Richterová, we disagree with Mr. President Michálek, we disagree with Mr. Vice Prime Minister Bartoš here. It's just a different perspective. It's a different view and another interpretation of the law. And I think Aleš Juchelka said it correctly, that we are not judges to interpret it, and probably again - again, and I stress that again - on the proposal of someone from the coalition, the court will decide. And once again, public funds may come to nothing, because I believe that Mr Köppl will win the trial, and he will have to be paid a salary and some compensation, just as we have seen it in the past. But, you know, I'm sorry that someone's gonna cause this humiliating debate for me about a media expert, and then he's gonna run off. That is why I am putting a procedural motion to interrupt this point in the presence of Mr Bartoš, Vice-President Richterová and President Michálek. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u78	That means, you do, I'll just repeat it, to the presence of Minister Bartoš, Prime Minister Michálek. And that's it? Or anyone else? [[Vice-President Richter.]] Please, Mr. Excellent has, I presume, a counterproposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u79	Madam Vice-President, Madam Secretary, fellow Members, I see what has been said here. It is therefore in some direct contradiction with the way the agreements have been held - and this will certainly be confirmed by your President - in the course of today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I am not at all opposed to the possibility of a proposal by any of the Members on anything, but I would like to point out that under the Rules of Procedure -
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u80	protinávrh, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u81	Is that okay? [[Yes.]] In that case, Madam Vice-President, I am of the opinion that Mr Králíček's proposal is null and void, he will certainly comment on this, because his requested colleagues are here, we can continue the debate and discuss this point and move on to the more important ones, which are then behind it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u82	Yes. I will ask, then, because I see here both President Michálek and Minister Bartoš, if Mr králíček insists on his procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u83	Yes, I would like to say that I agree with the President of the Excellent. The proposal is null and void, which is why I don't insist on it and withdraw it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u84	Yes, thank you, but the Chamber of Deputies has been filled with your proposal. [[Laughter and applause across the hall.]] We will continue the debate. We've exhausted all the factual points. Mrs Lenka Dražilová is enrolled in the general debate. Calm down, please! Colleagues, colleagues, please remain calm. Mrs Dražilová, then Mr Kolovratník. Please, madam, you have the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, please calm down, move your calls to the lobby.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u85	Thank you for the floor. At least the colleagues who have returned will hear something that maybe they haven't heard yet. I have to say, I'm really surprised that the motion to dismiss Daniel Köpl at all is being filed because I thought he was part of a rather heated campaign, and today is actually a few months after the election, emotions should be put aside and look at the whole thing calmly, rationally...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u86	I am so sorry, Madame. I ask my colleagues in both parts of the hall to move their calls to the foyer. Gentlemen, please move if you don't end your calls. Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u87	So look at it calmly, rationally, and especially with respect to applicable laws and law. I think Daniel Köppl's been explaining this whole thing over and over again, and the reasons why it happened. At the same time, I would like to remind you that this has not yet been said at all that he has refrained from any personal attacks all the time and, on the contrary, acted as a matter of fact. That, too, is, and I would like to emphasise, his expression of professionalism and expertise. Vice-President Havlíček said that he is one of the most experienced members of the Council, and I will add that because I believe that many fellow Members do not know who he is, so I would like to highlight some of his qualities. First of all, we are talking about a person who is a respected person in both the professional and academic sphere. We are talking about a person who lectures on media theory in several universities. We are talking about a person who has been in the media environment since the late 1990s and who has really done a lot of professional work. Let me just remind you that it was he who founded the two most important professional magazines on media and marketing in the Czech Republic - Strategy and Marketing & Media, and last but not least it was he who founded the largest conference on media Forum media, which is still being attended by the most respected personalities of the advertising and media world. Those of you who deal with the media probably remember him as an uncompromising commentator of the media and advertising world and as one of the first to comment on media and advertising. And that brings me to his role in the Radio and Television Council. His nominations and his work in this institution are certainly not a trademark, but rather a logical choice. With a number of people in this institution, you may have doubts about their professional assumptions, but not with Daniel Köppl. And that, I think, will confirm to you all who work in the field of media management. For this reason too, I find the pirát' accusation of doing something with their actions that could undermine the impartiality and independence of the Radio and Television Broadcasting Council, for - forgive me for the term - smiling. The request for independence and impartiality of a member of the Board shall necessarily relate to those activities carried out by the Board. It would make no sense at all if a member of the board had to be independent and impartial in any of his activities, that is, he could not take his positions, his positions on various matters or issues that have nothing to do with the very application of the board. That's a logical interpretation of the law, because in the reverse case, it would mean that none of the members, forgive me for the expression, could even say their views on politics in the pub. And I would like to remind you that it was not so long ago that the House had already lost a similar case, and the state had to pay several tens of millions of crowns to people who had been called off in violation of the law. If the House calls off Daniel Köppl and he gives it to the court, it can be assumed that it will be the second time in a short time what the House will not succeed, and I would really like to know if the pirát will then take this responsibility on themselves and compensate for any costs that will be associated with it, because it is undoubted that this is, above all, their initiative, and I would like to hear who these costs may be. Again, according to the legal opinions and the document by Daniel Köppl on the appeal proposal, it also follows that the House has no clear argument to speak for this step. There are a number of subjective feelings in a document created by the House, which has already been said, there are a number of ethical and moral appeals, but the arguments that could stand in court are not there. I'd like to ask everyone who hasn't read his opinion to read it. Some who were here heard him from my colleague Aleš Juchelka's mouth, but most of you weren't here. It's been said here. It's just that you want to prove your political strength. Daniel Köppl didn't break anything, and his place is just going to someone else's.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u88	Thank you. Mr Kolovratník is now in office and Mr Babka will be prepared. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u89	Good evening. So perhaps it is a good thing that, on the initiative of Robert Králíček, the O.R. was a little crowded, although I can see that it was only for a while. Well, there's a little more of you here, so maybe some of you, at least some of your colleagues, colleagues, will come up with my words, my message, which I will try to make. I'll borrow a classic, quote him, "You're not doing well, Jaromír, putting those burnt matches back in the box," said the classic in a classic Czech comedy. And I say, "You are not doing well, Ivan, you are not doing well, Jakub, you are not doing well, Olga, through Madam President, but you too, Petr, my fellow rapporteur, are not doing well to meet the pirát in their longing for blood by colleagues from the STAN movement. And I'm turning to it - now without lightening and exaggeration, quite seriously, to all my colleagues and colleagues in the coalition that I spoke to in the gallows and I saw between the lines how enthusiastic they are about the point we're opening here - the demons, perhaps in some cases of the previous regime, and also the years that the pirát here want to open. To illustrate and better describe what some of my colleagues have indicated very briefly about what I want to warn you about: it is an article of two years old, April 2021, and I will shorten that quote, it will not be all of it: "The Council for Radio and Television, i.e. state institutions from the state budget, must pay over 14 million to former members who have been called off by Špidla. RRTV" - it is based on the final final verdict - "two years ago, it came to pay 14 million for the loss of wages plus an even significant increase in interest on late payments plus another CZK 2.4 million, which the councillors appealed for in court. [[19.50 hours]] You know, I worked in the media for 12 years before my political career, many of those former councillors I personally knew, and you can look into the article. They were gentlemen Zdeněk Duspiva, Pavel Foltán, Petr Žantovský, Josef Musil, Jiří Novotný, Petr Štěpánek. The prosecution requested that the great media council pay them their wages from their appeal until the end of their six-year term of office. It happened sometime in 2003, when they were called off, and it was on the basis - and I guess I don't have to delay you - of the so-called Stockholm arbitration on CME, which the state had to pay more than CZK 10 billion for the impaired investment in commercial television Nova. The then Prime Minister, Špidla, called off the broadcasting board because according to the House of Commons, she did not carry out her duties repeatedly. Part of the Members then considered the rada to be responsible for the loss of arbitration by the Republic. The last paragraph is quite important in this article. The House subsequently created an investigation committee that concluded that the Czech Republic made several mistakes in arbitration with CME, but the damage that CME suffered in connection with the investment in Nova, Czech Republic - and now beware - is not blamed. Those who successfully passed the trial claimed that this report of the House's commission clearly refuted their responsibility. Well, that's for the opening of my show. Really, colleagues, consider this if you want to go into this, even though we have a slightly modified law today, perhaps the technique is that the Prime Minister no longer withdraws on the basis of any recommendation or opinion of the House, but that this step can be taken directly by the House, it is based on the amendment of the law in question last year, but really very carefully consider whether you want to raise your hand for something like this, even if you can reject my appeal with a lit match in the box by having immunity and you are not liable for any damage. After all, you have done much more to work with the state budget and with the economy of our Republic, yet I appeal to you. And please look into the law. There it is clearly stated: 'The Chamber of Deputies may dismiss a member of the Council for these reasons' - one of them, c) if I disregard the others that are not related to this subject - 'if he has committed such an act which undermines his dignity, impartiality or independence, or calls into question the independence or impartiality of the Board' - the great broadcasting board. I will recall the discussion on the committee of our media, where Mr Daniel Köppl spoke, said the personal level, realized his misconduct, say in some ethical, reasonable role, acknowledged it, but he also said and said that he insisted that he did not act and did not act in the interests of any subject, only provided a factual state of affairs, after all, you can look this up and read this in his comments, which we have available in writing to the House press. The Merit of my speech, what I want to conclude with - that paragraph (c) of the paragraph in question, clearly - is not for discussion, it is for any emotional or subjective consideration - it is for the representation of board members as such. [[A paragraph?]] If you have ever looked at how council meetings are going, those administrative procedures, dealing with the objections of citizens, entities and so on, there would be no doubt about it if not only Mr Köppl, but any councillor acted openly in favour of one entity, another entity, if he proposed any resolutions, votes and so on, then there is probably nothing to discuss. But the fact that the media expert, mentioned by Mr Köppl, appeared somewhere in the media and described the state of affairs in one of the electoral staffs, so he does not perform there, does not disturb dignity or independence and certainly does not question the independence or impartiality of the Radio and Television Broadcasting Council as a whole. I want it to be publicized here, so that you can record this, so that you realize that if the affected will be removed from you today, it will use - and very rightly - these arguments, and that if the Czech Republic loses, you will not pay for it, but the damage will follow you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u90	Thank you. Mr Babka will now appear and prepare the last enrollment so far, Mr Berkovec. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u91	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, dear colleagues, this point today, namely the motion to dismiss Daniel Köppl as a member of the Radio and Television Broadcasting Council, is just the conclusion of a great story, and now I can mention, for example, how EET stomped us into the country when we look back on the distribution of functions in the House or the story, how to clean up the state administration from the uncomfortable people, and how to introduce its people elected to its ministries, and now I am speaking again about the law on the state administration, which has approved the five-wheeler - the story of recalling the uncomfortable people elected in recent years by the House - and here I can mention the attempt by the Ministry of Culture to send the Czech Television bill, which has called off all the Czech Television councillords. And now, today we come to the fact that you are able to go so far through a few pirate Members that you will call off a member of the great radio council and castrate it here. After all, the way you do it and you did it, it has already been said here, by photographing the person he met at some public event and so on, and it is again a transparent game like all the examples already mentioned. The pirates have the promised place on the big radio council, and so it bites the head off here, although it is clear that there has not been any violation of the law, because - and it has already fallen here - you might rather mind that the chairman of that great council is a member of the group, a member of the ODS. And I'm not saying that it bothers us, I'm just putting it in the context of realizing who and what we're calling off, and no one's dealing with that today. And I'll put it in the context that you read in the press that every fourth member of the Pirates sits in public office today and collects public money, so this is just another function that the pirát want for their members. It should be noted that today's appeal initiative by Daniel Köppl is based solely on political interests and not strong legal arguments. According to the proposal, the legal conditions for the removal of Daniel Köppl from the board member's office are not fulfilled, and it has been made clear from the mouth of my previous speaker Martin Kolovratník that we should all be aware of what our decision today can lead to. The appeal is made on the basis of imaginary accusations which refer to some violation of independence and impartiality as a member of the board. But these steps clearly undermine the trust and independence of this great council. Today, the five-calice also claims that Mr Daniel Köppl acted in favour of the ANO movement. But there's no evidence of that, except that you know well that the correspondent, and it's also said that the correspondent doesn't really choose the headline. And so it is necessary to ask what exactly in that output was he doing in favour of the ANO movement as a member of the Radio and Television Broadcasting Council. One breath here is five koalice or Mrs.Publisher Richterová adds that she did not express himself impartially and independently on the questions asked in an interview for Czech Television, unfortunately again without any evidence showing this particular behavior. There is no argument, any analysis of this view. The motion for appeal lacks the argument in question, is based on Mrs Richterová's assumptions and proves that only two statements are made in the submitted material, using the first person plural. Of course, there is no context here that would make it clear what these statements have to do with impartiality and independence as a member of the Radio and Television Broadcasting Council. [[20.00 hours]] This whole appeal motion is out of line. According to the law, there is a clear requirement for an independent and impartial exercise of office concerning the powers of the Radio and Television Council, not the appearance of a member as such, but powers. It should therefore be considered whether the deliberations of a member of the Board jeopardise the exercise of those powers. This has also been said several times. The request for independence and impartiality of a member of the Board shall relate solely to the activities carried out by the Board. It is therefore pointless for a member of the board to have to be independent and impartial in all its activities, because it would mean that he cannot take positions and positions on issues that are not subject to the authority of the board. And here again, I can mention the membership of the President of the Radio and Television Council - in the political party. Is that less independence and impartiality for you? In fact, we do not consider this to be in general here, but only in relation to the exercise of the office of a member of the Radio and Television Council. Most importantly, we may all have to repeat and realize that the board member is always or will always become a nominee nominated by the political party. There are people who are nominated by the pirát, Mayors, ODS, KDU, STAN and so on and so on and so on, and it always happens whether he is nominated by the YES movement or by other political parties. In my opinion, the reason for the removal of a member of the Board from office may be merely an act which calls into question its independence and impartiality of a member of the Board in cases where it decides on the matters entrusted to it. Thus, an independent member of the Board is such a member whose conduct is not subject to the instructions of another entity. An impartial member of the board is then a member who does not decide in favour of the board. Unfortunately, what we are watching here today is a purely political process, it is a witch hunt, when five-calices repeatedly try to usurp positions for their people, just as they have created additional ministries that no one needs in this country, just as they place their political deputys, and the same is happening right now in the case of Daniel Köppl's position in pale blue. Five-calice - and it has also been said here several times - has many friends, but few positions, and therefore these positions try to usurp at every opportunity. I am very disappointed in this case because Daniel Köppl is a great media expert who definitely belongs to the Radio and Television Council. And if you call off Daniel Köppl today, it will only come to that, and I am convinced that you will trade the nomination of the ANO movement for the nominator of the Pirates. My colleague králíček has asked here several times whether this position will remain the YES movement, but I am convinced that you are doing this precisely because the place that belongs to the YES movement is to be taken away from us and elected to the great council of the nominator of the Pirates. In my contribution, I deliberately did not pay attention to Daniel Köppl as a true expert who no doubt belongs to the Radio and Television Council. His résumé, of course, suggests that. And not only that, but today, his appeal should not take place. At this point, I beg you not to do this, so that we do not make this precedent, when we dismiss a member of the great council just because a few pirate Members think that this person is impartial and independent in quotes in his performance of office, because that is not the case. The evidence isn't for that. And please, let us not, or let us not, by this appeal, threaten the independence of the entire great council as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u92	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, have a good evening. Before we continue, I will read an apology: today from 19.45 for personal reasons she apologizes to Mrs Helena Válková. Mr Stanislav Berkovec will be next in the general debate. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u93	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a pleasant evening. Today, when discussing this point, there was a five-calice objection that we are still repeating here that Mr Daniel Köppl, the master, is an excellent expert and a decent man. I am convinced of this, which is why we are talking about it, and I am very happy to repeat it. ano, Master Daniel Köppl is a decent man and an excellent professional and expert. I dare to judge his expertise because I studied at the same school where he studied mass communication between 1996 and 2001. I studied advertising and advertising and journalism. If you don't mind, I'll remind you of a few moments from his professional career, which is also valued among the professional public. He started with the Research Agency Opinion Window / Research International. Between 1998 and 1999 he was the editor of the magazine Strategies. This was one of the main titles from which experts drew, as well as from other titles of the publishing house Economia, where he worked between 2000 and 2013 and was in charge of the division B2B titles. He was also the editor of Marketing & Media magazine, another modern icon in this business. The reason for leaving the publishing house were different opinions on further development of titles. From 2013 to 2020, he worked for the media company and publisher Empresa Media. First he came to the position of editor-in-chief of marketing sales media, the year after that he became the editor-in-chief and a key manager a few months later. Between 2016 and 2020, he was also a member of the Supervisory Board of Empresa Media. And since some of our colleagues were not here when our esteemed colleague Juchelka quoted the defence, let me return to the final part only, i.e. how the master describes the overall assessment of his activities in connection with the accusations, i.e. in quotes: "The proposal is generally based on the fact that I was acting in favour of the ANO 2011 movement, which is documented in my statements concerning the election campaign of Andrej Babiš in the presidential elections. Because according to the proposal, Andrej Babiš's candidacy was proposed by members of the ANO 2011 movement, I have - and I am quoting now the accusation - in fact also in favour of the ANO 2011 political movement. However, the presidential campaign was not conducted by the ANO 2011 movement, but by Mr. Andrej Babiš. Any performance I perform must thus be interpreted in the context in which it was done, and I cannot be moved by intentions which I have not shown in any way." I can't be moved by intentions I haven't shown in any way. It should be stressed once again that membership of the political party is not prohibited for board members, so it is permissible for a board member with a particular political party or movement to identify himself through his membership in it. However, this must not affect the impartiality and independence of a member of the Board. "I am not a member of the ANO 2011 movement" - notice, he is not a member of the ANO 2011 movement - so my relationship is significantly weaker than it could be under the law. The proposal does not claim any decision of the board or of my other procedure in the exercise of the function of a board member in which the claimed or rather anticipated dependence and bias should be expressed, since none has ever shown itself. Nor is it incompatible with membership of the Board if it does not prevent me from performing my duties as a member of the Board properly. Therefore, the legal conditions for my removal from office as a member of the Radio and Television Broadcasting Council are not fulfilled." [[20.10 hours]] So much has the defense of an excellent expert and decent man Daniel Köppl. Thank you for your precious attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u94	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. I will read another apology: Minister Michal Šalomoun apologizes for personal reasons from 20:30 today. We are in a general debate. I'm asking if anyone else is joining the general debate? [[A Member of the Coloversity is reporting.]] I see your application. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u95	He's a bit of an atypical point. I am not a rapporteur right now, but I am duly reporting to the general debate. I, colleagues, would like to speak for myself as a Member, but also a little bit in the role of the President of the Election Commission, who has these nomination personnel issues, as you know, in the long term, with some historical experience. My consideration is this: in all cases, the House's personal nominations or decisions on personnel nominations are always being made in the form of a so-called secret election. In fact, the only exception is the changes in the institutions, the occupation of the House's bodies, where proportionality and compliance with the so-called call for individual political clubs are always checked, and therefore a long-term agreement is valid across the political spectrum, that, therefore, whether resignation or nomination to the institutions, when there is no dispute, we deal with the acclamation here in plenary. But otherwise, from my experience, more than nine-year-olds all of them, I can use the word, external nominations, which means the personnel topics of all institutions, such as the media council, always address the so-called secret choice. I think we can agree that this is the pinnacle of democracy. It is the most democratic way we are elected. I don't know why some coalition members smile ironically. Maybe you don't see it that way, we do, colleagues. For us, the secret choice is indeed the pinnacle of democracy, preserving the personal integrity of each and every one of us. You really are free, without the pressure of the party secretariats, without the recommendation of the piárists and so on and so on, you can decide freely. Therefore, from my position, I think I can do this within or at the end of the general debate, I will give - perhaps it is not even a counter-proposal, it is a procedural proposal that the proposed resolution, which the rapporteur will present in a moment, will be decided by the House in a so-called secret way, i.e. a secret vote, in the State acts. I ask that we vote on this procedural proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u96	I, Mr. Ambassador, need to be more specific. If you are giving a procedural proposal, I must put it to a vote immediately, or that we can vote on whether a secret vote will take place, and that motion will be heard, if you allow the motion for a procedure, after a detailed debate is held and the resolution is loaded, I will put to the vote on the way in which the vote is being voted, namely on your proposal that you are proposing a secret choice. [[Yes.]] We're in line. Thank you very much. So I ask, is there anyone else in the general debate? Please, Mr. králíček, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u97	Today's the last two questions. Will the President of the Radio Television Council appeal and will the post after Mr Köppl be offered the YES movement? I beg your answers, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u98	Thank you. I'm asking if anyone else is still applying, so that I don't miss the speaker? Mr. Nacher changed his mind, all right. In that case, I am ending the general debate. Am I asking for the final word? The final word isn't. In that case, we will proceed to a detailed debate. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u99	Thank you for the floor. I will now read the motion for a resolution, outside the reasoning contained in the House document 1927. It's quite extensive, so you can each read it afterwards. However, the motion for a resolution is: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic pursuant to § 7 para. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row shall be the amount reported in column 060 of this row. (c) Law No 231/2001 Sb., on the operation of radio and television broadcasting, and on the amendment of other laws, as amended, removes Daniel Köppl from the post of member of the Radio and Television Broadcasting Council, on the day immediately following the date of notification of this resolution to Daniel Köppl.' Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u100	Thank you. I'm asking if anyone else is reporting for a detailed debate? I don't see another suggestion. In that case, I shall conclude a detailed debate. I'd like to ask if you'd like to take the final word, Mr. Ambassador? [[Rapporteur: No.]] It's not like that. First, before I vote on the vote, we must vote on the way in which we vote. [[Order?]] There has been a motion to vote this appeal secretly. I'll call in a colleague and colleagues from the lobby. I'm registering the check-out request. I'll check you out and ask you to sign up with your cards. The number of Members present has settled. I therefore begin the vote and ask who is in favour of this appeal being made by a secret choice? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 34, 156 Members and Members, for 70, against 41. This proposal has not been adopted. Since we did not vote for a secret vote, a public election will take place. She's still applying with priority rights, Madam President, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u101	I won't forgive myself for not performing right now. Let me quote Tomáš Garrigu Masaryk here. We have democracy here, or we should be here, some more Democrats. You're the Democrats, then! You can't even make a secret choice, you're afraid of yourself!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-002-132.u102	The motion for a resolution has been made. For the record, I'm asking if it's necessary for us to repeat it? It's not like that. In that case, I am opening the vote and I ask who is in favour of the motion for a resolution, as stated in the detailed debate? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 35, registered 157 Members and Members, for proposal 87, against 70. The motion for a resolution has been approved. I'm done discussing this point. I'm opening another point in today's meeting, and that's
