ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the second day of the 65th session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I warmly welcome you all here. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you out and ask you all to sign up with your ID cards and, if necessary, notify me if anyone else is asking for a replacement card. Mr Kobza will be voting with the replacement card number 15 so far. I also say that the following Members asked to apologize for their absence to the hearing: Bašta Jaroslav apologizes for the whole day for health reasons, Dvořák Jaroslav for the whole day for health reasons, Flek Josef within 11 hours for working reasons, Foldyna Jaroslav for the whole day for working reasons, Golasowská Pavla for the whole day for Vondrák Ivo, Hájek Jiří from 12 hours for working reasons, Hájek Martin for the whole day for family reasons, Krutáková Jana until 11 hours for personal reasons, Liška Petr from 15 hours for working reasons, Němečková Crkvenjaš Zdenka for the whole day for health reasons, pokorný Jermanová Jaroslava from the whole day for health reasons, Pražák David from 10 Helena for the whole day for working reasons, Strýček Jiří until 10 hours for health reasons, Špičák Julius until 11 hours for working reasons, Urbanová Barbora for the whole day for foreign reasons, for the whole day for medical reasons of the international travel, Hežák for the Válková day for medical reasons, for the vlček Lukáš day for the whole day for the whole day for medical reasons, Helen clock for the whole day. Bartoš Ivan apologizes from the members of the government for the whole day for working reasons, Bek Mikuláš for the whole day for working reasons, Dvořák Martin for the whole day for working reasons, Hladík Petr for the whole day for working reasons, Lipavskýý Jan for the whole day for working reasons, Rakušan Vít for the whole day for family reasons, Šalomoun Michal within 14 hours for working reasons, Válek Vlastimil until 11.30 hours for working reasons. There have been two apologies in the meantime: Mr Jan Lacina apologizes until 9.15 hours for working reasons and Mrs Zuzana Ožanová from 14-45 hours for personal reasons. That would be all the apologies we've had so far. We will begin today's meeting by discussing the fixed points, so I will ask for silence. Point 98 is the first one so far, it is the House press 263, the amendment to the Czech Television Act, the third reading. There are then points 102, extraordinary remission of penalties from social security premiums, and point 103, extraordinary remission and termination of certain tax debts, both third readings; then paragraph 10, House printing 165, amendment of the Act on the residence of foreigners. I would also like to remind you that at 1:45 p.m., we have fixed voting points. It is paragraph 112, a change in the composition of the institutions of the Chamber of Deputies; paragraph 113, a proposal to elect a member of the Council of the Czech Press Office, and paragraph 114, a proposal to elect a candidate for appointment as Vice-President of the Supreme Audit Office. I will now ask those who have already volunteered for a possible change to the programme already approved. First, I have Mr Marek Výborný here - he withdraws - and then, I will read the order for everyone to know, is signed with priority right to change the agenda of the meeting by President Tomio Okamura, then the President of Radim Fiala Club and then there are three more applications to change the approved programme. I, therefore, have priority rights to change the show - I ask everyone to keep it down - to invite President Tomio Okamura to his contribution. Please, colleagues from the right side of the hall, I really beg you to preserve the dignity of the negotiations, leave the hall if so. Now the words may be taken to change the agenda, President Okamura. Please. [[The noise in the room doesn't stop.]] I ask you once again to leave the hall of those who want to speak in the lobby. Mr Okamura is next, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-000-000.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose a few points to amend the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies for today. As point 1 I would like to propose a point called the Fialův Government approved a treaty on the US military presence in the Czech Republic, which allows the US Army to use military premises and buildings. I'll give our opinion on that. The SPD movement tells clear not foreign bases and soldiers in our territory. The Secretary of Defense will go this weekend... May I have a moment of peace, please?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-000-000.u3	Yes. Really please, colleagues, there's a lot of noise. Even from the left side of the hall can now be heard a great noise. Please transfer the calls to the lobby. Thank you. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-000-000.u4	I don't think things have calmed down around here. I'd like to ask you, Madam Vice-President, to set things straight.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-000-000.u5	Let's wait a minute so that colleagues can transfer the calls to the lobby. I think the improvement is evident. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-000-000.u6	Thank you. The SPD movement tells a clear "no" to foreign bases and troops in our territory. The government of Petr Fiala approved a treaty with the United States of America on the presence of American soldiers in the Czech Republic. It is not a cooperation agreement, but a treaty for the future military presence of the US in the Czech Republic, which allows the armed forces of the US to use military premises and buildings at the air bases of Čáslav, Pardubice, Náměšť and Mošnov. To finish what I wanted to say before the break that Secretary of Defense Jana Černochová from ODS is coming to the US to sign this treaty on the military presence of American soldiers in the Czech Republic. No one here has discussed this with us for the SPD at all. Yes, it's going to be discussed here, but the arrogance of Fialův's five-police government, when, in fact, without public discussion with citizens, they decided to agree on the government's treaty for the military presence of US soldiers in the Czech Republic, I think it really is unacceptable. Like I said, the SPD doesn't agree with that. As I learned today, the SPD is the only party in the Czech Parliament, the only party in the House that does not agree with this treaty. We're not ashamed that we're the only ones. We are not ashamed that we are the only party in Parliament, on the contrary, it is necessary to emphasise this, which does not agree with this Treaty between the Czech Republic and the US, which is being strongly pushed against the interests of many citizens here by the Fialův Government and the Secretary of Defense Jana Černochová from the ODS. [[9.10 hours]] I'll keep going. American soldiers will also be able to use military training spaces and use barracks in Vyškov, Rančířov and Stará Boleslav. And I have already mentioned, of course, that the contract allows the use of military spaces and buildings at the air bases of Čáslav, Pardubice, Náměšť, Mošnov. Of course, when I talk about this with the people of the Moravian-Silesian Region, a large part of the citizens are very concerned about the location of the US armed forces in the area of Mošnov airport. They're afraid of it, and I think the concerns are entirely justified. The SPD is fully behind citizens who do not want the presence of any foreign troops in the territory of the Czech Republic. For us, I say that we do not want American soldiers here, neither Russian nor German, we simply do not want foreign soldiers here on our territory - that they will be here in some buildings, or perhaps they will even build a base here. So, as I say, in all these locations that I have mentioned here and I specifically named them, the US can build its own buildings, including food stores, opening catering facilities, banking services, social and educational centres, and so on in the case of the approval of the treaty by Parliament, however, the government has already approved it, and Minister Jana Černochová is now going to sign this contract on the weekend to the United States of America, even though your government has support of 30% of the population, even in elections you have not received a majority, 43 percent of the citizens voted for you in the elections. So it really is another turning point in your actions of the Fialův Government, that you here only sign a treaty about your will and agree to the presence of American soldiers in the Czech Republic. And in the case of the approval of the treaty, which you have already approved in the government, now Minister Černochová is going to sign it to the US on the weekend and will be able to move freely and operate on the territory of the Czech Republic, including family members. The references of government politicians that this agreement doesn't really change anything are not true. You are still here trying to hang our citizens' bells and not tell the truth, because this treaty between the USA, the Czech Republic introduces a free regime of arrivals, departures, bringing any movable items, storage of weapons and ammunition into these premises, without the possibility of controls by the Czech Republic. This is signed by Secretary of Defense Jana Černochová of the ODS, and this is approved by the ODS government of Prime Minister Petr Fiala. Of course, my lawyers are also writing to me and pointing out what I have already pointed out here in the House, I suspect that I was talking about this 14 days ago, three weeks ago, that if American soldiers commit a crime in the Czech Republic, they should not fall under the government's approved contract under the jurisdiction of Czech law enforcement authorities. I think this would also need to be clarified. Well, something repulsive wasn't even here for the protectorate. So I have to say that this is another thing that is very problematic, and of course we know from abroad that this is being dealt with very much and that the opposition of citizens to this moment, for example, which I am talking about, is to mention the rape of young girls, schoolgirls in Japan, where there were huge problems, when American soldiers on the base were dealing with this and, of course, the American party did not want to issue it. I suspect that this has only been done in one case after long negotiations to be judged under Japanese laws, which, of course, are extremely hard in these respects. So, of course, this is another thing for us that would be completely unacceptable, so that when American soldiers here commit such criminal activity that they cannot be judged under Czech laws. True, there is a death penalty in some states in America, not in our country, and I think that for some of these really serious crimes, strictness is certainly appropriate in various respects. De facto it will be a similar principle as applied to the territory of the embassy, which means, de facto, it would be an immunity in places where American soldiers will operate. Of course, another completely unacceptable thing that the Fialův Government, the ODS government and Minister Jana Černochová of the ODS are doing here, that this contract is concluded for ten years when it cannot be terminated, that is, ten years without notice, just ten years, and that is so. That means you're actually tying us down here for ten years, the Fialův government that rules the minority, now you're gonna push it through the House, and I really think that this, by the way, would be a typical question for a referendum. But even the government coalition, the five-calice government, doesn't want to allow the referendum bill, lies here from the SPD's third term. That's right, we've been trying for years, you're all blocking this place. But even the referendum proposal proposed by the YES movement now does not allow it to vote on it. It does not allow the YES movement in the referendum proposal to say that it prohibits people from voting on international treaties. That means, basically, the SPD is the only party that promotes real democracy here, and the SPD's proposal for a referendum is here in the House. You're blocking him here, all the other sides, and that would allow it here. I think it is a typical example of people taking part in this referendum, and the question would be simple: Do you want such a treaty on the presence of the United States military presence? Or do you not want a military presence in the Czech Republic? That's not how the referendum law is here for other parties, we have it under the SPD, you're blocking it for us, and of course there are excesses like this, when, at all, the Fialův Government is adopting proposals here, which, in my opinion, a large part of the citizens would disagree with them. So the fact that this treaty is concluded for ten years when it cannot be denounced is, in fact, unacceptable for us. I know that's why you have a lot of reasons. I've heard some reasons, but we don't care about that at all. We as SPD do not want the presence of American, Russian, or other soldiers in the territory of the Czech Republic. Our voters have unfortunate memories of 1968, have unfortunate memories of World War II, East or West. Here's just what I'd say, I wouldn't want the presence of soldiers. That means, we don't want Prime Minister Petr Fiala and Secretary Černochová from the ODS dragging us into war here, which is what they keep calling them citizens, what I've heard many times from the citizens' mouths, or it says you're war hunters, that's a nickname. So I would like to propose this as the first point, because it needs to be discussed, because Minister Jana Černochová from ODS is going to the USA. We're reading here that it's a secret mission, which in itself I find absolutely incredible insolence and arrogance at all of the Fialův government, so that I -- to a woman somehow -- to a woman, because the secretary is a woman, so I'm not going to be personal here, but I consider it a huge arrogance of the government. So a covert mission, which in the end isn't so secret, but a covert mission about it - you're hiding from the citizens of the Czech Republic that you're actually going there to sign something. [[9.20 hours]] And that's what we heard here about the contract being under cover. Well, you can tell me a hundred times that it's a military cooperation agreement and that a classified regime is appropriate, but not in this case. The treaty has already been signed by various NATO countries - not all of them, it should be stressed that only 24 NATO Member States have this treaty with the US and not all NATO countries have it, I suspect NATO states are 31. It's not in my notes right now, but I think there's 31 of them. So what I'm saying is, it's not like we have to have closure. Moreover, the arrogance of the Fialův Government is also seen in the fact that, for example, the Slovák, if I remember correctly, the Slovák who went into the streets and protested against this treaty, so if I remember correctly, President Čaputová, based on public pressure and the pressure that the Slovak government realized it, had to retreat in one part of the thing that they put there - now I don't know if it's called an explanatory clause, now I forgot the term - just put an amendment there, one in two-letter quotes, where they just wrote that it doesn't mean creating an American base in Slovakia. I'm sorry if I didn't say it exactly, but in that sense it went on -- now it's not in my notes, but I read about it and I heard about it. This means, of course, that there has been some self-esteem in Slovakia, even though it has been signed and provoked by opposition to the public. We, as the SPD, say again, disagree with the treaty, but even this minimal self-esteem or some public debate, it does not go arrogantly by the Fialův Government. So I would just like to point that out to the neighbouring Slovakia. We believe that the contract is disadvantageous and unnecessary for the Czech Republic. As I said, only 24 NATO member states have it with the US, which means it's not most... sorry, most of it is, but it's not all of them, and the Czech Republic already has a NATO contract SOFA, so basically, from this point of view, the treaty is useless, and, as I said, it is also disadvantageous, in our opinion. The SPD movement tells clear "no" to foreign bases and soldiers on our territory and, of course, we will vote in the House against the approval of this treaty. As I read, apparently we will be the only ones who will vote against it, because I read today that colleagues from the other opposition party hesitate. But it doesn't matter, we're just going to vote against it because we just disagree, and the SPD is saying a clear "no" to foreign bases and troops on our territory and it will vote in the House against the approval of this treaty. So that's the first point I'd like to propose. Lucky for me, in quotation marks, because by coincidence, the Secretary of Defense Jana Černochová is sitting here, so I think that the government coalition would not have to reject this SPD opposition point and that there might be a debate on that. We have the SPD military expert, retired colonel, Mr Radovan Vích, who has worked in NATO structures for years, worked abroad for years, worked on the general staff for many years, graduated from both the military school and the military school, so I think that this discussion should take place here because Minister Černochová has absolutely nothing to do with the soldiers and is neither competent nor professionally competent. I think that she would have some interesting questions here in comparison to these experts that we have in our ranks - and I think that even talking about armament, I think that there would be some interesting questions to try out Mrs. Černochová in the way she knows her weaponry, because those purchases, that's really incredible - and we just don't have a chance to ask that in any way adequately. So for us, we say that our Member Radovan Vích is fully prepared, he does it for decades, his whole life, and he knows these things from his head, so I think that the discussion is in order, because if you want to sign such serious contracts, Minister Černochová, and that's how you want to get Czech citizens back into your business, so I think it would be good to make an opinion ping-pong here with our expert and our expert, how it is - if you are not afraid, we will see it at the next vote. So we are competent, the SPD, we have competent people, and we would like to discuss this subject, because I have to say that the topic resonates with the Czech Republic, and you are defending the debate in the House, your government. So this is a matter. Point number two, which I would like to propose on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies meeting, and I am actually following up on what you did here yesterday, your government, when the right-wing government, you call yourself the ODS - the right-wing party, and you have even proposed here under Section 90 to approve a tax increase within one day, and you have already pushed it through the first reading. The ODS came to raise taxes, waits less than a minute, and yesterday, pursuant to Section 90, you increased the excise duty, you increased it, it went through the first reading, in the first step to petrol and diesel. So the ODS, the party that promised not to raise taxes, you no longer hesitate, you released the consolidation package. There is no consolidation package, of course, it is a harmful package, and you do not wait another second, and Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura, Vice-President of the ODS, has already been upset here, because we have, of course, put the veto on it as an opposition party. You wanted to vote this place out in one day, you wanted to raise taxes for all citizens immediately. Yes, the ODS has prepared an increase in taxes for all citizens, and now you will be gradually injecting it this year, next month for example, when you will come up with other proposals for raising taxes for citizens, what I have heard, but now the ODS has come up to raise taxes for all citizens of the Czech Republic. Yes, it's ODS. She promised not to raise taxes and you have already voted for the crown fifty increases in excise duty on petrol and diesel, and as we read in the media today, the price of oil will, of course, become more expensive in the summer, and we read that it will even be more expensive than in the surrounding countries because of the ODS, which increases taxes. So the ODS raises taxes completely hard on all citizens and, of course, it's a flagrant violation of election vows, because a number of ODS voters voted... [[Ambassador Adamec from the O.R.: Mind your own business!]] But Prime Minister! President Adamec here tells me to take care of myself, but I take care of our voters, Mr President, that our voter will now pay higher taxes for you, so I take care of our voters. The fact that the ODS officials are running out of nerves and they're calling me "take care of yourself," aside from the arrogant cries, we already know that from you, the kind of desperate screams, I understand your situation. But the ODS here now raised taxes, it's going to raise taxes and you're raising them to our voters, but the point is, yes, if you were a party that was supposed to raise taxes in the program, it was going to be like, and so on, but you had in the program and you lured a number of your voters to promise not to raise taxes. ODS said it wouldn't raise taxes and said it to the entire coalition of SPOLU, TOP 09 and KDU-ČSL is still there, and you raised taxes, you already took the first step yesterday, across everyone. I would just like to stress that section 90, so that citizens only know what I'm talking about. This is here according to the Rules of Procedure, ladies and gentlemen, when when a party proposes something under Section 90, they can approve it in quotation marks with one vote in one day. Why are they in such a hurry, ODS? The ODS is in such a hurry to raise taxes to citizens, although it promised the exact opposite that yesterday - § 90, to do so within one day. And then Mr. Finance Minister Stanjura here got all worked up about us, the opposition, why we blew it up so it would be in Section 90, why we blew it up to be in one day, so it would be right away. This means that the right-wing ODS, which plays on the right-hand side - only plays, we already see that, it is no right-wing - so those who call themselves the right-wing party, came up with an increase in taxes, even in one day, to make it one vote. [[9.30 hours]] So now all citizens will feel this ODS move on their wallets, which has come to raise taxes, and even so you are in a hurry to increase taxes for all citizens to do so within one day, which we have prevented, here the opposition to the SPD together with the other opposition party, with the ANO movement, of course, we have prevented it, because we can give the veto in two. Yes, in two, according to the Rules of Procedure, two clubs are needed, so here we have agreed with the ANO movement, I say it fair and square, and we have prevented you from increasing taxes to citizens within one day. As opposition, we're here to prevent tax increases, even if you're voting for it with your hundred and eight, but at least we've delayed it for the citizens. We've delayed it to get the money out of their wallets right away, but the ODS keeps pushing up taxes, raising taxes. Now you're planning other things, even though you said otherwise. So this is ODS policy - raising taxes for all citizens. We need to keep saying that, and we're going to repeat it, of course, and I don't think any of the ODS can be angry either. And I'm surprised by the angry reaction of President Adamec here, Chairman of the Economic Committee, because you're not ashamed of what you're proposing? I'm not ashamed of the SPD the only thing we're proposing here. I'm not ashamed of the only thing I've ever said in the media about our program, I stand by everything. I don't know why someone here at ODS gets upset, is ashamed of it, and does it bother him when I'm talking about ODS raising taxes? I mean, the Prime Minister here presented it, and it was presented by Minister Stanjura. We all see it, you brought the designs here yesterday, so I don't know what you're ashamed of? That you raise people's taxes? All people see it live. I don't understand why you're suggesting why you're promoting this here when someone's yelling. This really is a huge problem that you raise taxes. Moreover, here comes another thing, which is why I started to talk about it, that the European Union, with the support of the Fialův Government, approved a marked price increase for petrol, diesel or coal. The Member States of the European Union, including the Czech Republic, represented by the representative of Petr Fiala from the ODS, have finally approved another package of mandatory climate standards, which will start to apply from 2027 and will bring a significant price for petrol, diesel or coal for Czech citizens and companies. The ODS continues to do this, the Fialův Government is headed by the ODS, and the Prime Minister is a member of the ODS, so you continue to increase your prices and continue to support the Green Deal, even though Petr Fiala - I myself took part in these pre-election debates - took a critical stand at Green Deal, but after you got to the government, everything in terms of the expensive and this Green Deal, this climate over-activism, you approve as a treadmill, Petr Fiala's government, and you are already damaging all the citizens of the Czech Republic. The SPD movement promotes reasonable environmental protection, no, of course, but it cannot be based on the order of Brussels, but on the real needs and possibilities of Czech citizens and the Czech economy. But the ODS goes one by one. You have approved another package of mandatory climate standards, which will bring a significant price increase for petrol, diesel or coal for Czech citizens and companies since 2027. The Czech Government even agreed with all the proposals submitted. The essence of these new European Union measures is the future senseless charging of emissions from heating buildings and road transport. These new emission allowances, which were once again approved by the ODS and the five coalition government headed by Prime Minister Petr Fiala for the ODS, will cost a liter of petrol or diesel approximately 3 crowns. The most dramatic will be the increase in the prices of black coal for domestic heating, where an increase of at least 40 per cent can be expected. During the process of rising electricity and gas prices it is another liquidation measure for Czech households and a direct proof of the economic and social harmfulness of the European Union. To sum up: Yesterday, the government pushed through the first reading - of course, despite the SPD's resistance, you pushed through - an increase in excise duty on diesel and gasoline by a crown of fifty. Moreover, Petr Fiala's ODS government, moreover, voted and agreed to take another tightening standard from the European Union - instead of being opposed, you were in favour - and which would raise a liter of petrol and diesel by about 3 more crowns. So we already have 4.50 because of the government of ODS, Petr Fiala and your five-wheeler - Pirates, STAN, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09, ODS. That's why I want to talk about it, because it's up to date based on what happened here yesterday. So you, your government, are up by 4.50 at this point in time to all the people. You're costing gas and diesel $4.50 a liter to all people, for no reason at all. That's ODS policy. This is simply a direct result of the gradual implementation of the European Union's Green Deal plan, but in the past, the Czech Republic was supported by the Czech Prime Minister Andrej Babiš of the ANO movement and is fully actively and openly supported by the current Purple Government. Let's talk about how and what the ODS promised before the elections and what the ODS is doing now. It's totally against the program, contrary to all the promises the ODS made to their constituents. Of course, I'm not gonna pretend that ODS voters are writing. They write, of course, because they're dissatisfied. They are very unhappy with ODS policy. They feel betrayed - and rightly so. A huge number of ODS voters are writing because they voted for the ODS precisely because of their promise not to increase taxes and because of some conservative policy as well as about Green Deal, but the exact opposite is true. You've raised their taxes, you'll raise their taxes to the citizens. Yesterday you pushed through the first thing. And the citizens who voted for the ODS are, of course, very upset about this, and I understand them. We understand them in the SPD and, of course, such voters in the SPD, if they choose to choose the SPD, we will not betray them. In the opinion of the SPD movement, the Czech Republic should not implement these harmful measures into its legal system and, on the contrary, we should endeavour to adopt a law on a general national referendum that would enable citizens to vote on the withdrawal of the Czech Republic from the EU, which is proving increasingly necessary and more timely. And of course, I'm just going to point out that the SPD passed the general referendum here, and it's here in the House, and you're blocking it for us. Of course, it would be appropriate to allow citizens to vote in a referendum and to allow for the adoption of the SPD bill on referendum. So I propose point 2: The Purple government has approved a significant price increase for petrol, diesel, or coal. As point two, I'd give it tonight as an extraordinary point. Then I have point number 3 here, and that's the case we've just seen here, or the problem that Prime Minister Petr Fiala is blaming for the price increase on the Czech National Bank, and the Fialův Government is responsible for it. As we have all seen, Prime Minister Petr Fiala from ODS accused the Czech National Bank and its governor Aleš Michl of the insufficient fight against inflation, one of the highest in Europe in the Czech Republic. Yeah, 15 percent, average in the EU is 8 percent. The Purple government is as usual - we've gotten used to it, even if we don't want to get used to it and we won't, but they're used to it here in the House, you've got most of it - the Fialův government is actually one of the worst in Europe. You just couldn't handle inflation, you didn't stop electricity prices from producers, and this is the result. Of course, Prime Minister Petr Fiala is desperately trying to blame the Czech National Bank, which is doing so, even though we all know that it is Prime Minister Petr Fiala and his government who are responsible for these increases. [[9.40 hours]] And such desperate excuses for Ukraine, perhaps all citizens can already see that this is a lie, because that would cause problems for other European countries, but the Czech Republic has problems because of the Fialův Government, by the way, the monstrous inflation, which is basically once as high as the average in the European Union. In addition, the pace of debting the Czech Republic, 200 billion for January to April this year, the record in the history of the independent Czech Republic, even made a negative record, and according to Eurostat, the rate of debting the Czech Republic is the highest in Europe at all. Supreme! This means, it is not some Ukraine conflict in Ukraine, it is the incompetence and incompetence of Prime Minister Petr Fiala of the ODS and his ministers, so, of course, in this situation, Prime Minister Petr Fiala, instead of standing up like a man and resigning, submitting resignations, throwing guilt like a small child, kicking around and blaming those who have absolutely nothing to do with it. So the reality is, of course, that the Czech National Bank has been fighting inflation for many months, preferring the method of strengthening the Czech koruna exchange rate through so-called monetary interventions, which is the sale of euro reserves and the purchase of Czech koruna. The strong exchange rate of the Czech koruna thus cheapens imported goods, which is important mainly for oil and acts anti-inflationaryly. Without the rest, it is true - and we see this all over Europe - that government measures have an enormous impact on inflation. The main anti-inflationary instruments in the SPD's view must be to reduce the state budget deficit primarily by reducing expenditure, reducing government debt and regulatory measures to prevent further price increases. But the Fialův government is going the other way and is going to increase indirect taxes, VAT and excise duty. I've already mentioned that you increased yesterday, you pushed your excise duty up to petrol and diesel, so you're going to get more expensive. The ODS raised taxes to people immediately, as a first step you increased taxes to people and you increased the price of petrol and diesel by a crown of fifty to every citizen of the Czech Republic. We, like the SPD here, were against it, we're against it and we're against it, but the ODS is for tax increases. I disagree, but when you think so, it's your political responsibility. Moreover, you want to increase property taxes, property tax, even though you said before the elections - I saw the quote of the former ODS Member Zbyněk Stanjura, the current Minister of Health - that you will not increase property tax. [[finance]] And the first ODS has done that it has already prepared an increase in real estate tax for all citizens of the Czech Republic, and all of this will be clearly pro-inflationary. So yours in the quotes consolidation or tax package is clearly inflationary. Inflationary! And it will make most of the goods and services more expensive to citizens of the Czech Republic. From the SPD's point of view, it is crucial to reduce energy prices, where we still have the most expensive electricity converted into purchasing power parity within Europe and where we are the second most expensive in gas. This also follows from Eurostat's European Statistical Office numbers. The solution that the SPD has been talking about here for a long time since last spring is in the ceiling of electricity prices directly with producers and in the purchase of gas directly from producers with the most advantageous price. I would just like to point out, since I am already on the Eurostat statistics of the European Statistical Office, it has also been published, it is about 14 days ago, last year, Hungary had the lowest increase in gas prices from all over the European Union. The lowest, precisely because it has a bilateral treaty with Russia. Austria has it and so on and so on, so I'm just saying about the prices, I don't want to mess with anything else right now, and we've been pointing it out all along, but the Fialův government has literally pulled hundreds of millions, maybe billions, to Czech citizens out of their pockets, out of their wallets by not providing cheap energy, unlike the surrounding countries. And as part of the reduction in food prices, in our opinion, it is precisely necessary to make a combination of the reduction of VAT to food to zero, control and regulatory measures. These are the solutions proposed by the SPD, which the government rejects. Here is a really miserable situation at the Ministry of Agriculture, which is led by the people, KDU-ČSL, Minister Nekula, the invisible minister, who, when asked by citizens, nobody knows at all, should be dealing with expensive food - it doesn't solve anything. But remember last spring when he said he was gonna control the margins of businessmen. A year has passed and has not checked clearly, the result of his activity is zero. So what else would the minister be stepping down for? When we have expensive food, citizens go shopping in Poland, where VAT is zero for food, we have proposed this since the beginning, SPD, now selected foods - VAT to zero - reduced the Portugalec too, so it is not an isolated phenomenon in the European Union, it can be done without problems. But the Fialův government doesn't want to do it, and of course, the incompetent ministers in the government. I just understand that someone is incompetent and he doesn't know what to do, but that he should just go and put it down, not that the people there, Jurečka, Chairman of the KDU-ČSL, where the minister holds his nails, even though all citizens of the Czech Republic literally pay for his inactivity, and Prime Minister Fiala is also silent, so that is wrong and citizens have unnecessarily expensive food - Czech citizens because of the Fialův government. So item number 3 at the meeting of today's Chamber of Deputies, I would like to propose a point called Prime Minister Petr Fiala to blame for the price increase on the Czech National Bank, while being blamed by the Fialův Government. Item number 4 at today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies I would like to propose a point entitled Minister of Labour Jurečka of KDU-ČSL and the Fialův Government are responsible for the fact that tens of thousands of citizens were not granted pensions within a legal period. I think this situation is literally scandalous, because the Czech Social Security Administration, which is directly subject to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka from KDU-ČSL, is absolutely unable to handle citizens' requests for pensions. In recent months, tens of thousands of citizens, namely 25,500 people, have not received a decision on the grant of a pension and its payment within a legal period of 90 days. It is no exception that citizens are waiting for a pension for more than six months without the Czech Social Security Administration giving them any information about the state of their application or apologizing to them. This is totally unacceptable to the SPD. Minister Jurečka excuses overload and a high number of pension applications, but it is a complete managerial failure of the Fialův Government and mockery of citizens. It is the duty of both the Minister and the entire government to comply in practice with the Pension Insurance Act and that pensions are granted and paid on time. Minister Jurečka of KDU-ČSL does not solve this critical condition at all. On the contrary, branches of the Czech Social Security Administration, for example in Prague, are being cancelled, which, on the contrary, continues to worsen the situation. Similarly, with regard to compliance with the deadlines for payment of social support and assistance, the employment authorities are working again under the direction of Minister Jurečka, whose managerial inability should be a clear reason for his withdrawal from the position of Minister of Labour and Social Affairs and a member of the Government. So what are we talking about here? Citizens have applied for a pension to which they are entitled, but the incompetent Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka from KDU-ČSL is unable to manage the Ministry and its subordinate organizations repeatedly and over the long term, and citizens are waiting for a pension, for a pension for more than half a year. They need money at the same time. Because of Fialův's expensiveness, citizens have financial problems. And even though it is a legal claim, there is a law on pension insurance, so that pensions are granted and paid on time, Petr Fiala from ODS and Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka from KDU-ČSL cannot ensure that. [[9.50 hours]] So I want to put it as point number 4, as an extraordinary point at the House of Deputies meeting, because the SPD, of course, is fighting for all decent citizens, and if tens of thousands of people in the Fialův Government don't accept pensions just because they can't handle the administration, and people wait six months for it without an answer, I think that's a completely scandalous situation. What are these people supposed to do without money? So that's point four. Here I would like to stress the reason why I propose extraordinary points here, because I already talked about it yesterday, and of course I suspect that some government MPs will lie and say that Okamura or opposition here today prevented people from helping in debt. It's not true, it's a lie, so I'm saying it again for both the media and the public. We proposed yesterday, I personally suggested that you give the first two points today at the Chamber of Deputies meeting to help people in debt, the so-called Grace Summer, that is the remission of social security penalties and so on. We were suggesting that this be point one and two, and you turned it down for us here. The government coalition rejected it because it is not a priority for you, and instead of explaining who didn't watch it yesterday, you put the first point in the House's meeting as the first point in the Czech Television, or that you want to politically dominate the Czech Television and Czech Radio by amending the law, and the two points that are intended to help the people of the species, you gave up as points 2 and 3. And we, of course, - not only are there important points, the actual ones that I propose here and we need to discuss them because - and we will be able to do everything, including helping people with debt - although you pushed it as point 2, 3, but, of course, what the SPD does not want is for Czech Television and Czech Radio from SPD dealers' money to be dominated by the Fialův government, because it is undemocratic. It's just undemocratic, and since the Fialův Government is down to preferences, you're only about 30 percent of the citizens believe you now, so you're trying to push through as a correspondence choice that allows us to manipulate what we've seen abroad or some inaccuracies, so of course you want to politically control the Czech Television and the Czech Radio so that you can get your hands on pro-government opinions, for Brussels views, and, if possible, not broadcast opposition opinions there, or as little as possible. That is, I warned you yesterday that it is good to have those laws to help in the debts that the SPD enforces and we prefer them to be as point 1, 2, so that the Czech Television comes as point 3. But you rejected it, you didn't want it. All I'm saying is that one of the government MPs doesn't say that Okamura and the opposition here have prevented people from helping in debt. It's not true, you stopped it, you're defending it as government five-wheelers, you are. You are defending this because it is a priority for you to control Czech Television and Czech Radio politically to broadcast what you want, which is why you put it as point number 1 today. That's why, because it's not your priority, so as point 2 and point 3, the government coalition has given help to people in debt. So it needs to be explained, because when I was on TV yesterday with Mrs Pekarová Adamová, the president of the House, it really didn't last, the lies, because Mrs Pekarová Adamová - everyone can play it, everyone can play it now - she said that the opposition isn't suggesting - so she named YES, by the way, included - that we are not proposing any legislative proposals here in order to help people. So I said that Mrs Pekarová wasn't going, she wasn't watching as president of the House at all, what are the laws on the agenda of the meeting? I mean, it goes to every MP! There are dozens of SPD bills to support parents with children, to tax, to give dividends to multinational corporations - Mrs Pekarová will lie there on the air that the SPD proposes nothing like that, and yet here it lies, lying in the House, the law. What's he doing there for 300,000 a month? She doesn't know which beats, that's totally incredible. So, of course, I had to turn against this lie by the President of the House of Mrs Pekarová Adamová. How can she even say that the opposition is not proposing anything here - which she took in a plural, she took both opposition parties - when there are dozens of proposals. She doesn't know, she just isn't competent to run the House at all. He doesn't know what's on the agenda and what laws are being passed here. But if she didn't know, then O.K., of course we didn't vote for her and we don't want her, we don't agree with the president of the House - we proposed here, both opposition parties, her appeal, yes - but the fact that she doesn't know which beats at all, and she's still lying live on TV that the opposition hasn't proposed anything, in which they are right here, completely, black and white, planted even dozens of our laws, in the social sphere and other laws, so it's really - that someone can lie to people in the face of it at all, it's absolutely unbelievable. Unbelievable situation. So I thought verbal manipulation, I've gotten used to everything I can hear, but this completely black in white, someone says, so really -- either he's a regular liar, or he just doesn't know what's going on in the House, which is a problem, I really have to say. So I'm talking about it because we want people to be helped out of debt, but of course we want to - and you put it this way, the program, the government coalition, that your priority is the political domination of Czech television. But the reason I'm suggesting these points here is that, in the meantime, of course, the actual things have happened, the other reason, and this here gradually, the points, I suggest, because it needs to be discussed right now, tomorrow is Thursday, then Friday and, of course, the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies is over. So let's go to the next special point. I just wanted to ask you to have one of the government MPs, I'm already... Somebody always sends me some Twitter, some tweet, and like this, where they always lie, government MPs lie about what's being proposed here by the opposition, twisting it, lying, saying that if someone wants peace and doesn't want war, that it's pro-Russian, and that's what they're saying, and they're totally screwing around with each other, so I'm used to it. So I want to call you on it repeatedly and explain it to you here. I'd rather recycle this place and repeat, don't lie. We were the ones who wanted to help people in debt, and you turned us down yesterday, the suggestion that it be points 1 and 2, you turned us down. This is how it is and as a priority you have put here the political control of Czech television. That's a priority for you, for us it's helping people in debt. So let's go to the next point, point number 5, the extraordinary point that I would like to propose here, and that's a point called the Purple government is bad for businessmen. Nearly a million citizens have not yet logged in to the data boxes, which the Fialův government was obliged to set up on 1 January this year. Yes, it was set up by the state on a proposal from the ODS of the Fialův Government. This data is derived from information provided by the Digital and Information Agency. This can pose serious problems for these citizens. The activation of the data box will also occur without their login, which brings new obligations and risks of high fines for their users. However, hundreds of thousands of citizens involved did not receive this relevant information from the government in advance. The problem is, above all, that not login to the data box does not mean that the mailbox remains inactive. Then comes the so-called fiction of accessing the data box, which automatically activates after 15 days from the delivery of the access data, and from now on the so-called delivery fiction applies, when documents sent to the data box are considered delivered after 10 days, and thus the real risk of execution can also threaten citizens. [[10.00 hours]] The establishment and disclosure of the data box is also linked to the obligation to submit tax returns exclusively electronically. Once again hundreds of thousands of tradesmen do not know about this. At the same time, most of them intend to continue to file their tax returns in the standard way they are used to. A large number of businessmen also do not work with the Internet or the computer, so the activities of the Purple Government and the ODS are objectively directed against the interests of the tradesmen who are always strongly defended by the SPD. As I have already spoken, you will now increase taxes for all citizens, and you want to increase taxes for businessmen as well. That's what you're planning, so the ODS will raise taxes across the board to all citizens and businessmen. Of course, the SPD does not agree with this, and we will vote against it, because we stand on the side of businessmen and working people, and we will not make their lives more expensive when it comes to the SPD. [[May I speak?]] ano, the Fialův government wants to make their lives more expensive. So that's point five. Another point I would like to propose at the Chamber of Deputies meeting... I have some suggestions. Of course, we cannot agree at all that President Pavel, after negotiations with President Charles Michel, called on Ukraine to become a member of the European Union to open accession talks with Ukraine by the end of this year, even though there is a conflict. I think this is completely unacceptable, of course, and we, under the SPD, say that we are against Ukraine's accession to the European Union. Ukraine's accession to the European Union, even though it does not meet the essential conditions, despite the current conflict of war, means a fundamental economic and security risk for all the Member States of the European Union, and the Czech Republic would be one of the highest-risk countries. I would just like to say that here in connection with what the Fialův Government is doing here, because Petr Pavel is, of course, the president supported by the Fialův Government, so there's a hand in hand, and we just can't agree with this. However, I will return to the draft of my point where I would like to say... yes, this is another problem that the number of illegal migrants in the Czech Republic has increased by 40 percent, so it will be my point, which I propose, an extraordinary point on behalf of the SPD movement, item 6. Foreign police revealed 2,658 illegal migrants in the first three months of this year, an increase of 40.6% compared to the same period last year. The vast majority of these people were discovered in connection with illegal residence in the Czech Republic. The most frequently exposed migrants residing illegally in our territory were citizens of Ukraine, Moldova, Syria, Turkey, Morocco and so on. Many of these migrants have shown false evidence according to the foreign police. Last year, and these are really monstrous numbers, Czech police have detained 18 065 people on our territory - and it is only the tip of the iceberg - because of illegal migration they have detained 29 235 people, which was an increase of 18 065 people compared to 2021, which means more than a 100% increase. This means, divide it by the number of days a year and everyone finds that the borders of the Czech Republic are like a colander. Last year, two-thirds of illegal migrants were Syrian citizens. In the light of these data, we consider it very appropriate in the SPD and in terms of the safety of Czech citizens the desirable renewal of permanent controls at our national borders, especially with Slovakia, where the largest number of illegal migrants flows. We support the restoration of permanent controls at our national borders, so that the controls are simply there, and that does not mean queues at the borders, as someone lies again - always haunting those opponents, twisting words. It means that the cops will be present there permanently, and of course, the risky cars and the risky places will simply be controlled permanently. And I think that, and it has nothing to do with the transitions of Czech citizens, who, of course, can continue to have a smooth transition. I propose this item number 6 with the title as point six at the Chamber of Deputies meeting today: the number of illegal migrants in our territory has increased by 40 percent. Of course, a big problem, and I would like to propose this as point 7, is what the Fialův government is doing about energy prices. We have been saying this here for over a year now that Czech citizens have the highest energy prices in Europe due to the Fialův Government. Yes, you can hear well, we pay the highest energy prices throughout Europe because of the Fialův Government, so the inability of the Fialův Government simply to deal positively with something for Czech citizens is completely black and white and it is crazy. You should resign, because Czech consumers paid the highest price for energy throughout Europe in the second half of 2022 as well as the so-called parity of purchasing power. This results from an up-to-date analysis of Eurostat's European Statistical Office. In this period, Czech citizens and entrepreneurs paid 38 euro cents for 1 kWh of power electricity, the fourth highest price in Europe in absolute terms, and after conversion into the parity of purchasing power, together with Romania, even the highest price within Europe. Even greater change for the worse was recorded by Czech households and companies due to the Fialův government in terms of gas supply. The price for 1 kWh of gas increased by 90 per cent over the period considered to 19 euro cents. Once again, it is the highest price tariff in terms of purchasing power throughout Europe, but here it is also necessary to deliver B. Because of the Fialův Government, we have the highest energy prices in Europe in terms of purchasing power - so of course, Čech do not have as high salaries as the Němec and Rakušan do. Look where you've taken it, your government, in a year and something you've brought the citizens of the Czech Republic to. High electricity and gas prices are also the main cause of record inflation rates in the Czech Republic, which is once again one of the highest in Europe. These Eurostat data show, among other things, that the Fialův Czech Government has done virtually nothing to reduce energy prices and that the poorly executed and delayed price cap has not caused any positive effects, on the contrary. The government of Hungary, Poland, Slovakia or Croatia managed to keep the prices of kilowatt hours of electricity below 20 euro cents and the prices of kilowatt hours of gas below 5 euro cents, which is one-quarter of the Czech price in the case of electricity and in the case of gas. Again, in these neighbouring comparable countries, the governments of Hungary, Poland, Slovakia and Croatia managed to maintain the price of electricity in half and in the case of gas at a quarter of the Czech price. So look at the way the Fialův government is acting, that's awful. You took the Czech citizens and their wallets hostage, and now we can't get rid of you. Of course, citizens would ask for this, which is true, because even according to the latest survey, only 30 percent of citizens trust you, that is, most citizens don't want you anymore. And yet you're sticking to the government's fingernails. Of course, these data from Eurostat's European Statistical Office clearly demonstrate the inability and unwillingness of the Czech Fialův Government from the ODS to fight effectively to reduce electricity and gas prices in the Czech Republic. In doing so, the Czech government has much better starting assumptions than many European countries because we are completely self-sufficient in the production of cheap electricity and we are still exporting it. The SPD clearly states that it is necessary to exploit this potential as quickly as possible, to put low-level electricity prices directly at their domestic producers, and to significantly reduce price ceilings for consumers as well. This assumes full control of the state over CEZ's largest domestic electricity producer and consequently assume full responsibility for the process of production, distribution and sale of electricity. [[10.10 hours]] Yes, we say: we want the government to nationalize ČEZ. It is calculated that it would cost the circus CZK 200 billion, but given the dividends that are up to 100 billion, you can see that the return would be very fast. Of course, then the government, eventually the state, would gain full control and full responsibility over the production, distribution and sale of electricity. This would clearly benefit Czech citizens, because electricity could be even cheaper. But for you, it's the most expensive, under your rule. As point 8 at today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, I propose that the new EU measures will significantly cost industrial production, transport, energy, heating, construction and real estate. I'll do it again later. Members of the European Parliament have approved the termination of the issuance of free emission allowances in industry, the ETS system, by 2034 and the charging of emissions from heating buildings and road transport, the ETS system 2, since 2027. Why am I talking about this? This new EU measure - it is also the name of this point - will significantly cost industrial production, transport, energy, heating, construction and real estate in the Czech Republic. For the SPD, I say we reject Green Deal and this emission allowance system. Again, I will repeat that the SPD promotes environmental protection, but in a reasonable way, not on the basis of a directive from Brussels, but on the basis of the real possibilities of the Czech Republic and our real needs, because energy prices are already escalating and Green Deal measures are often so active and so senseless that it completely destroys our economy and our citizens in terms of finance. I will, of course, add that the final consent of the governments of the Member States of the European Union is still needed for the final entry into force of these nonsensical measures and not just for the Czech Republic. But let us look at the vote in the European Parliament. Absolutely absurd is the fact that MEPs have subsequently supported the creation of a so-called Social Climate Fund to protect households and entrepreneurs from high energy prices and transport costs caused by precisely tightening up the emission allowances system, which the same Members approved shortly before. I'll stop by later. All these measures, which are based on the European Union Green Deal project and the Fit for 55 legislative file, will lead to a further significant increase in industrial production, transport, energy, heating, construction and real estate in the Czech Republic. As I said, the SPD fundamentally rejects this Green Deal project, as well as the emission allowance trading system, for which tightening up has now, of course, voted - and I want to stop there, who voted in favour of the new EU measures, which will significantly cost industrial production, transport, energy, heating, construction and real estate in the Czech Republic to all our citizens - members of the Purple Government Coalition. Of course, the MEPs voted in favour of this. Specifically, the Pirates and TOP 09 voted for it. That is right, Pirates and TOP 09 have now voted in the European Parliament to increase industrial production, transport, energy, heating, construction and real estate for Czech citizens. I'm guessing they're looking at a small price that the Fialův government has shown here. Not to us, our MEPs, of course, voted against. So this is where we see exactly who's kicking who. But the really ridiculous thing is - that is why I want to stop there - that first those MEPs in the European Parliament, these pro-brussels activists, first vote to make real estate, construction, heating and energy more expensive to citizens, and then in the next vote, the same MEPs vote for the Social Climate Fund, from which they will give benefits to people from our money, of course from the money of all of us, to whom they themselves have made it more expensive so that they will not have money for their livelihood and for their housing. This is incredible what the European Union is doing here. That means, instead of costing those lives, there would be no need for a Social Climate Fund, so they will make it more expensive at the same meeting of the European Parliament, and then they will make those desperate people who won't be able to live - maybe they can be seniors, they can't do it today, or single mothers, and so on - so they will send them to benefits so that they will humiliately ask for some welfare benefits, even though they are decent people, live a decent life. This is unbelievable, this is incredible, what the Euro MPs of Fialův's five-calice government are doing here and the European Parliament and the European Union as a whole! So I'm going to propose this as point 8 to discuss this. That's all on my side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-000-000.u7	Mr President, thank you. A number of these points were quite extensive, so I would like to ask you to come back here and check on the exact wording. Next up, Mr Radim Fiala, President of the SPD, is here to change the agenda and also with priority rights, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-000-000.u8	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, my previous speaker has already proposed most of the points that I wanted to talk about here and propose. So I'm going to go back to one point that I want to propose, and that's the Consolidation Package. I am convinced that we need to talk about this. What I'm standing here today is not an obstruction. I also propose only one point, and that is the Consolidation Package, because I am convinced that we should talk about this and that the situation is really difficult. To say something positive about the consolidation package. It is important to say that the Czech Republic really needs some reform because the state of public budgets and public finances is disastrous and we are facing major economic problems in the future. If nothing happened, it would, of course, come to the wrong end. But when this government said it would reform public finances, that it would consolidate public finances, I really didn't imagine it would go that way. On the one hand, I must return to the fact that the state of the economy of the Czech Republic is very bad. The state budget deficit is unbearably deepening. It ended in the deficit of CZK 166.2 billion this March, which is the worst result of the first quarter since the Czech Republic was founded. In April it reached the volume of CZK 200 billion. The structure and parameters of the state budget of the SPD have long been critical of the SPD movement and its significant shortcomings are also noted by the Supreme Audit Office in its annual reports. The government did nothing more than one year after the start of the energy and food crisis, thereby allowing astronomical inflation, supporting its growth, and then came only last week with the so-called consolidation recovery package in which it presented its proposals for solutions, mainly by raising taxes and the so-called pension reform. According to the government, a significant tax increase next year is expected to bring CZK 31 billion to the budget and CZK 70 billion to the next year. Prior to the election of the coalition SPOLU - ODS, KDU-ČSL and TOP 09 - she claimed that it would not increase any taxes. That's what they said everywhere. I think we can play it on all the TVs in which the coalition of SPOLU appeared - Prime Minister Fiala, ODS said everywhere that it wouldn't increase taxes, and the opposite is true. We can all watch it, and we all saw it. [[10.20 hours]] We believe that savings on the part of the state are the solution, and the government must start with it first and foremost, rather than addressing the deficit of the state budget by reducing pension balances and raising taxes on a flat-rate basis. After all, inflation is the basic issue of why pensions are valorized. Increasing pensions is the result of inflation, so this government does not solve the causes, that is, inflation, but solves the consequences in order to get rid of the problems that have arisen in terms of inflation - the economic problems that have occurred in relation to inflation. So I'm saying that point number one is to deal with inflation, and yet the increases, the extraordinary valuation of pensions, have been approved legislatively, that is, in the law, precisely to protect pensioners and their real income from such high inflation. And now everything's different. Laws change, pensioners lose their real incomes, pensions, and, of course, they become, in time, a group of residents that will be threatened by financial poverty. There is a need to reduce - I will continue - to reduce the expenditure of individual ministries by 10 per cent on average and not to introduce a comprehensive tax reform that will have an adverse impact on all citizens of the Czech Republic. The government does not address the causes and only extinguishes the consequences of its own irresponsible activity. In this way, the government transfers its incompetence in the form of a burden of government debt to decent and working citizens rather than, for example, finally taxing multinational foreign corporations that make tax-free hundreds of billion-dollar profits and dividends from the Czech Republic each year. It is up to 300 billion profits and, of course, huge optimizations that can make up to 200 billion more. And that is all the money that drains from the Czech Republic by large foreign multinational corporations. The increase in VAT on beer from 10 to 21 percent is then the last imaginary nail to the coffin of rural pubs. The demonstrations against the government of Petr Fiala organized by the SPD movement throughout the Republic are so perfectly justified and we say that the consolidation package is nothing more than an effort to pull money out of people because the government is doing debts, it has to take the money somewhere, and the only way to pull it out of people is to get it out of people. We think it's wrong that the state should manage differently and save mainly on its own. So, Madam President, this is my proposal that he would like to talk about today. You can place it as item number 1 of today's program and it's called the Consolidation Package.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-000-000.u9	Well, thank you for presenting your proposal. Ms. Secretary of Defense Jana Černochová is now in line with the priority right. We're in a change in the agenda. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-000-000.u10	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. So we listened to the regular window of Tomio Okamura's demagogy in the democratic Chamber of Deputies of Parliament. So be it. vážený colleague Okamura, through the Vice-President: it is not a covert mission. Just because a journalist says there's something secret doesn't mean it's classified. You know, I've been telling everyone here for over a month that the treaty has to be signed with representatives of the US Party before the ratification process starts. There were several options for how the contract could be signed and when it could be signed. It is simply legitimate that the treaty will be signed between the Minister of Defence of the Czech Republic and the Minister of Defence of the United States, and there is nothing secret about it. We have always told this information publicly that this is what awaits us. Perhaps if you opened up a constitution at some point, you might know how such a ratification process is going. The treaty was approved by the government, and it is therefore entirely legitimate that it should now be signed. It's not even true what you said here that the contract wasn't discussed with opposition representatives in advance. I would very much like to thank the representatives of the YES movement from this place, namely Mrs Alena Schillerová and her colleagues, for the fact that when I approached them with an offer so that they could discuss the contract with me before the government and with my colleagues, she took advantage of it. We even discussed the contract with YES experts. I gave the same offer - the exact same offer - to the representatives of the SPD movement, and to the world wonder, even negotiations with representatives of the SPD took place. This will certainly be confirmed by Mr Radim Fiala, with whom the meeting was arranged, and the meeting was attended by you, Mr Okamura, Mr Member, former Colonel Vích, so we discussed the contents of the DCA contract with him as well as in detail. We also offered him some further questions and discussions if he wanted to add something. And even these negotiations before the government with opposition representatives were preceded by one meeting. It was in November 2022, held at the Ministry of Defence Resort. All the representatives of the upper and lower chambers of the Defence Committee, for security and for foreign affairs were invited there for the very first time, and there were actually heard that there were some teams that were working on the creation of the contract, which is called the DCA, and there was a very detailed discussion of this agreement under the SPD movement, Mr Tomio Okamuro, your colleague, Mr Kobza, as well as with Mr Kobza. So I'm asking myself here if Tomio Okamura is still running the SPD, or if SPD is already running Dr. Rajchl, and if SPD colleagues still have confidence in their chairman and they're telling him that information, or if they prefer to keep it to themselves, then he doesn't know it, and then he's making a little fool of himself on that microphone. 24 countries have signed the DCA agreement, and I would like to say it here, and I say it with a clear conscience that we have indeed negotiated the maximum possible negotiation possible, we have negotiated better conditions for the Czech Republic than other countries have negotiated. It actually seemed to be an advantage that we were up to 24 countries, because we had all the contracts of those other countries at our disposal and we could say: but you came to this, and we want it too. So this is how it went down, it was very correct, it was public, information was really given to all colleagues across the Chamber of Deputies. The contract is properly published, every citizen of the Czech Republic can get acquainted with it, and any citizen of the Czech Republic can also read in this contract that, on the contrary, it is exactly the opposite than you are here, Mr Okamura, through the Vice-President, said. On the contrary, it is precisely under the current modifications that they could not be tried, after the contract was accepted that the soldier you were talking about here would be able to be tried in the Czech Republic. So you've messed up again, and you've said it exactly the opposite way again, Mr Tomio Okamura, through the Vice-President. Of course, I will lead the debate on the subject of the DCA, we will lead it on committees, we will lead it on the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. All of this will follow, but the ratification process is given in some way, so we can look forward to the debate, the debate will be held and there is nothing going on here that is even classified, which the citizens of the Czech Republic would not know and what the Members, opposition Members would not know. And as I say, the YES approach, I appreciate it very much, and I very much appreciate that Mrs Schillerová also took with her colleagues to the meeting, with whom we could discuss the matter with them, and that other colleagues from the YES movement, those other debates that were actually more technical, because the DCA was not just working with the Ministry of Defence with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The DCA was worked by the Ministry of Justice, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Transport, Ministry of Environment, Ministry of Finance I said, Ministry of Interior, about eight or nine ministries, so of course it is a contract that is across these departments, so that the individual details of the contract could be acquainted with colleagues and the SPD movement before the government. [[10.30 hours]] So I had to get out here to disprove the outrageous lies Mr. Tomio Okamura is spreading here because he probably feels that he's not running his own party anymore, because under other circumstances, he would have had the information and wouldn't have been telling something that's a proven lie.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-000-000.u11	I'm just saying that we're on the agenda, so I'm gonna ask the speakers to propose changes to the agenda. I'll read that Vice-President Skopeček will vote with a replacement card number 20. I will add my apologies, because I will pass the proceedings, when Mr Jan Richter apologizes, within 10 hours for health reasons, Mr Petr Sadovský, for health reasons, Mr David Šimek from 15 o'clock for work reasons, and Mr Milan Wenzl from 13 o'clock for health reasons. Well, that's for everything to be settled as it should be. I am now handing over the proceedings of the meeting, and I have perceived that there is another application with priority rights, so I will give you the floor, Mr President. Please take the floor. We're in a change in the agenda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-000-000.u12	I know the program points are being proposed, so allow me, before I suggest that point, a few sentences on what Secretary Černochová said. Of course, our colleague Radek Vích, who was a professional soldier for a long time, held relatively high positions in the Army of the Czech Republic, so he became acquainted with the contract. We do not agree with this treaty and we do not agree as a SPD movement or with the presence of any troops in the Czech Republic, Madam Secretary, any troops! So what are we supposed to say about the contract? What are we supposed to say about this contract? For us, the treaty is all wrong because it allows foreign troops in the territory of the Czech Republic, and we don't really care what armies they do here and so on! So how are we supposed to remind you of this contract? It's useless. We're totally against this thing here! And I think Mr. Okamura meant to say, and that's it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-000-000.u13	Thank you. I am no longer registering anyone else with priority rights, so we have here duly applied applications for the agenda and Mrs Pastuchová will be the first to speak. Madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-000-000.u14	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday has been approved, and I thank you for that, including a point, the House press 241, only that the five-wheelers are then given enough time to do so, and that the time was not last night, so I would very much like this point to be included today. Then I will suggest a time to discuss it or my proposal, because I think that we are finally at the stage when this topic opened up, and it is not only the laws on which the coalition is fully in agreement that can be passed on our House. I think, really, let's go tell the public our yes or no. I propose that today and for the reason that, after reading in the media, I may have wanted to delay Mr Köppl's appeal yesterday, and that is why I proposed this before discussing this point, that was not really my intention. You have called off Mr Köppl, so there is nothing to prevent us from dealing with this point. Today, I read an article by the British Ambassador in the Czech Republic that points out in the media who do not know that today is the International Day against Homophobia, Transphobia and Biphobia, so it may also be appropriate to propose this point today. I must also comment on the President of the Pirates, by your means, Mr Michálek, who has expressed himself in the media with the view that YES wants to divide the coalition with this proposal. But I think the coalition is working so well, or at least the media is bringing it to us that you can't really be separated and it won't upset you. Then I read the article that I surprised KDU and ODS with my proposal, but you surprise us every day, every week with your suggestions, so let us also surprise you a little bit. And for the last time, since I still have time, I really like the nice article from 26. 5th year 2022, when the title of Marriage is for all. We've already denied part of the government, the proposal has a chance to pass, says Olga Richterová. The chairman of the People's Party, Marian Jurečka, said that he would not consider it a violation of the coalition agreement when some Members put forward a proposal concerning marriage to same-sex persons. Today, IDNES revealed that during the coalition negotiations, there were also words that some Members were going to support the LGBT community in this regard. So I'm really glad. As I say, President Michálek takes it, by your means, that I would like to divide the coalition with this proposal, so it is not really my intention. I think the composition of this House will not change until the end of the term of office. I think everyone has an opinion about it. You already know how to vote, whether in favour or against, so I think there's nothing stopping us from finally saying our proposal, no matter how it turns out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-000-000.u15	Thank you, too. When, madam, when, please? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-000-000.u16	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Yes, I will. If I weren't to be accused of building something again, I would put it on today's day after the House press meeting 98, that's Czech Television. [[Point by point?]] Yes, after a point. After point 98.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-000-000.u17	Yes, I did. Thank you. Next on the agenda is Mr Nacher. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-000-000.u18	Madam Vice-President, thank you for the floor. I would like to come up with a substantive change in the program, and that is, today we have to discuss prints 377, 384, this is a so-called gracious autumn, forgiveness of accessories for so-called tax or administrative execution, and I would like to take the liberty, given that it is planned beyond the point of Czech Television, to put it in order to start today, so that it is the first and second points. It leads me to believe that these prints meet two criteria that the Czech Television Act does not meet - the first is that there is an absolutely exceptional agreement between the coalition and the opposition - so I do not know if in all the amendments, but at least in the whole principle, and secondly, it is even more important that this is a priority. We said that we would be dealing with executions here, those deposits from the past, and here I am glad that the government is continuing in cooperation with the opposition, so I think it is also symbolically good to show that priority by starting with these points today, and not being included for any other points that need to be pushed politically. Somehow we agreed that both the prints, 377 and 384, wouldn't take more than an hour, so I hope and believe that you will support me in this. In other words, again: 377 and 384 as the first and second points of today's negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-000-000.u19	Thank you, too. I've got a record. Mr Kobza is next on the agenda and Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová will be prepared. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-000-000.u20	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to dust off my proposals here and propose to add House Press No 13 to the agenda of this meeting, which is a proposal from the SPD Group to amend Act No. 40/2009 Coll., Criminal Code. Specifically, it is a ban on the promotion and dissemination of hate ideologies, not only on the movement as it is now, which is our debt towards eliminating the lack of a valid form and regulation of the law. This does not address the issue of public dissemination of ideologies promoting hatred for groups of people on the basis of their race, gender, faith, nationality or other common characteristics. It is therefore time to correct this deficiency and add two words "or ideologies" to the wording of the law after the term "motion." The fact is, we've been waiting for these two words for the fourth year. It is not even by far known hateful and hostile ideologies that already exist, but also such ideologies that are less known, which we may not yet know practically, and also ideologies that can be imported to us from the outside in the future, or even such ideologies that are yet to come, whether they are hidden under various sophisticated names and "imms." Let us therefore give our police, prosecutors and courts an effective tool to deal with the spread of hate ideologies under law, now and in the future. Let us give a clear signal to such spreaders that they will come across the law here and, as such, they will be dealt with. It is our commitment to citizens, in the sense that we will take care of the security of this country and its citizens, because if any ideology calls for hatred, we must keep an eye on it, and we must have an effective law that will enable us to confront it in time. So, by far, it is not just a selective assessment of Islam, as we are sometimes encouraged, however much Islam is among these hateful and dangerous ideologies. These include, like, Nazism and any other ideology calling for violence and hatred against certain groups of people. Let us remember here one regulation that extends to all Islamic teachings - not adapting to the environment or the host country, not integrating, believing that Muslims are superior to infidels, non-believers and cafes. Furthermore, there is an obligation to Islamise non-Islamic countries and control them using all the tools, means and in their eyes to exploit all the weaknesses of democracy. Let us learn from the mistakes of our neighbors and not protect those who want to destroy us. It is not worth so much effort to see the situation in the countries to the west of us, where Islamists take power in certain areas, Muslim enclaves arise under the rule of Sharia law and its enforcers and executors, where locals are afraid to go. I personally experienced it in Strasbourg. We see the tolerance of teenage wives and open pedophilia, even polygamy, not to mention the tolerance of mass violence against women, such as marriage rape of underage wives. I would remind you that we, Čech, already have our victims of Islamic terrorism. I'd like to remind them of their names, just so they know we haven't forgotten them. It was Petr Kořán, murdered by a Muslim attacker on July 24, 2005 in Sharm al-Shaichu, Egypt, Ivo Žďárek, diplomat and ambassador, murdered in a terrorist attack by Islamists in Islamabad on September 20, 2008, Pavel Hrůza, murdered by the Islamic State in Libya, the exact date is unknown, but it was in 2016, Naďa Čižmárová, murdered by an Islamic terrorist in an attack by a truck in Berlin on the Christmas markets on December 19, 2016, Lenka Civínová, stabbed by an Islamic terrorist on July 14, 2017 in Hurghada, Egypt. These people were murdered by fanatics who wanted to kill random unbelievers in the name of ideology and died only because they were in the wrong place at the wrong time. So please complete this law as the third in today's program. Then I have another...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-000-000.u21	Unfortunately, your time is up, so I can't give you a word because you have five minutes to load.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-000-000.u22	I have two suggestions, and it's five minutes to design.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-000-000.u23	Five minutes to design a point, yes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-000-000.u24	And I have two points. It's written on the note.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-000-000.u25	I can see that, but everyone can design two points in five minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-000-000.u26	Every point five minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-000-000.u27	So please, but let's try to keep up with the times. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-000-000.u28	Thank you. The next proposal I would like to make is to propose for today's House press programme number 16, which is a proposal from the SPD group to amend the Act on State holidays and other holidays, on important days and on working quiet days. I have been making this proposal for the fourth time. In the past period, this item was not included in the House's agenda. The proposal contains two points. Firstly, we propose to include 15 March as the Day of Memorial of the victims of the German occupation in the Czech countries, because this is the anniversary of the occupation. Secondly, we propose to change the sign of an important day on 18 June, from the present Day of the heroes of the second resistance to the Day of the heroes of the resistance against the German occupation of the Czech countries. The reasons for this are as follows: March 15, 1939 is the beginning of the most tragic stage in modern Czech history. The Czech State lost the last remnants of any state sovereignty that day, followed by a direct military occupation and a six-year period of total and targeted terror, killing the citizens of the Czech countries, today's Czech Republic, which clearly had the genocidal character and features of genocide. According to the results of the research of the historians of the Military Central Archive, the number of victims of the German Nazi occupation is around 343 000 people throughout the former Czechoslovak state, and out of that about 100,000 were people who were directly involved in the resistance. They were resistance, partisans, or people who helped them. However, this number does not include those who died after World War II on the consequences of abuse, persecution, imprisonment in concentration camps and prisons, the consequences of so-called total deployment, so that the actual number of actual victims is even higher. During the existence of the German Protectorate, at least 8,000 citizens were executed in our country, some 70,000 Czech Žid died in concentration and extermination camps, and another 3,500 died in forced labor in Germany. The entire village was also the victim of German Nazi terror. Among the most famous are Lidice and Ležáky and in May 1945 there were a number of other villages that were massacred for cooperation with the partisans. In this context, both in the law and in view of respect for historical truth, and especially in view of respect for the victims of the German occupation of the Czech countries and the survivors of them, this day, March 15, should be the day of commemoration of the victims of the German occupation of the Czech countries. Another reason for the proposed change is the ongoing and unacceptable attempt to rewrite history, especially the attempt to relativize guilt for World War II, the attempt to relativize the damage done by the German regime during this war and before it since 1938 on the Czech country and Czech people. There is also a strange campaign going on in public space, trying to convince us, especially our young generation, that the German occupation of the Czech countries was just one of the historical episodes that hit us, and it was basically nothing special. [[10.50 hours]] Czech citizens, soldiers and civilians, but in the face of the German occupation and German military power, they demonstrated extraordinary heroism and courage both abroad on the war fronts, in various anti-Nazi armies, and especially in the domestic resistance, where the situation was by far the hardest. And this is the reason for the second amendment proposed by us, which is the renaming of an important day on 18 June from the present Day of the heroes of the second resistance to the Day of Heroes against the German occupation of the Czech countries. The concept of the second resistance is now quite vague, unaddressed, neutral, and also in general awareness less well known, especially in the case of younger generations, and here too there is an argument about the unprecedented inequality of this anti-German anti-Nazi resistance in relation to other historical types of our Czech and Czechoslovak resistances. This resistance was fundamentally larger, stronger and more numerous both in terms of its intensity or the number of its actors and its victims, but also in view of the nature of the enemies he faced. I therefore ask you to include this point as the fourth point of this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-000-000.u29	I, too, thank you, and now it is Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová's turn to prepare Rozvoral. Madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-000-000.u30	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, honourable members of the government, colleagues, I would like to place a point called Communication - non-communication and arrogance of this government. The reason for my inclusion of the point is that yesterday, on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, there was a state-owned enterprise law that the Minister of Interior presented, who, through this law, needs to save the Czech Post and needs to give funds to this state enterprise by means of a so-called transformation plan. Not only wasn't the Home Secretary here, I would - I'm sure there are reasons for this, but if he wants to come before this House and he wants to pass something in the '90s, that means immediately, I'd assume he'll communicate with us, and above all, he'll tell us what the $8 billion will be used for, so how the Czech Post will be saved. We have been elected citizens like you, other Members, and we are responsible for the funds. And I must think today that the loss that Vít Rakušan brought Czech mail to at the end of 2022, and it was historically the biggest loss, 1,750 million, so it was caused by the fact that in 2022 transport was put into private hands. When the transport was provided by the Czech Post through its drivers, it was driven a kilometer for 18 crowns, and at the moment, as the unions call us, it is driven for 48 crowns. So we're gonna put the $8 billion on it? I really consider it incredible that yesterday, after discussing this press, the Minister of the Interior, who is not here, will put on his social networks that I said on the Security Committee that we are ready to help resolve the situation in the Czech Post. Yes, but somebody has to communicate with us sometime, someone has to introduce us to the transformation plan, and above all, someone has to tell us where the $8 billion is going. At the same time, I would be interested to know that on February 2 at the Security Committee, the Home Secretary told us that he was going to do something with the Czech Post, so in no way did he tell us that he was going to cancel 300 branches. At the same time, he didn't tell us he was gonna do it the way he did it, throwing all the mayors overboard, not communicating with anyone. Look, there was a change in branches in a number of these cities yesterday, but there wasn't a branch left. No city was allowed to operate the branch itself through the Post Partner, as it was previously allowed to other cities and municipalities, especially smaller sizes. And then let's see what happens to the steps that Minister Vít Rakušan has taken. In Brno, if you want to go to the post office and submit a registered letter, you wait there for more than two hours, because some of these branches have already closed. I call on the Prime Minister, too, at the moment, because the non-communication of the government and through the programming statement - this is not possible, you are going to make a law here in the '90s. I'd still understand if the Home Secretary came to us and said, "Yes, I'll introduce you to the transformation plan." I wrote to the Home Secretary on 26 March and asked him to stop the move, to communicate, to meet me as shadow minister, to communicate with the mayors. He didn't do it, he wrote me that he didn't, and he texted me that the transformation plan would be introduced to us. And yesterday, he's gonna come in here with the state business bill in the '90s, he's not gonna tell anyone, he's not communicating with anyone, and then he's gonna say that we don't want to support it. Once again, we have been elected citizens, we must take care of the proper economy, and we will support this law when we know where the 8 billion crowns will go. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-000-000.u31	I, too, thank you, and now Mr.Rozvoral has let Mrs.Šafránková in front of you on the basis of the agreement, so I am giving the floor to Mrs.Šafránková. The Member also has two points. Well, Madame, I'll give you ten minutes right away, okay? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-000-000.u32	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not think that I will take advantage of the ten minutes, but I would like to propose that two items be discussed on the agenda of this House meeting, which I consider essential in the long term in terms of the need and need for urgent assistance by two of the most socially threatened groups of our fellow citizens. Firstly, this is an increase in the contribution to care for people with disabilities, and this is point 31, which is House Press No. 9, a proposal by the SPD to amend the Social Services Act, and it is a proposal, as I have already said, which I submitted in October 2021 right after the elections. This is an increase in the contribution to the care of disabled citizens dependent on the care of other persons in I. and II. degree of addiction. These contributions last increased eight years ago, and we all remember well how last December, here in the House, government MPs did not apply to voting facilities, although they were present in the hall, deliberately blocked the possibility of discussing this law properly at first reading. If they behaved in the interests of the disabled at the time, this bill could already be approved by the House in peace, it could pay and help our disabled fellow citizens. I will add further, and it is very important that the government has also increased the prices of all social services for these disabled citizens since this January, which, again, leads to a further deterioration in the quality of their lives and to deterioration, along with, of course, their health, which is the worst of all. Perhaps one of you does not know how much the care allowance is for disabled adults in the first degree of addiction, i.e. for those who are unable to perform up to four basic needs of life. Dear colleagues, it is only CZK 880 a month. I would like to place this point as the first point in today's negotiations, or I would like to place it firmly tomorrow at 11 o'clock. Furthermore, I would like to propose an increase in the parental contribution, which is item 80, House press 266. It is also a proposal of the SPD, this time to amend the Act on State Social Support. As I said before, this is a proposal to increase parental contribution and to introduce its annual automatic valorisation directly into the law. [[11.00 hours]] Our families with the smallest children are one of the most endangered social groups, which is all the more true now, given the high inflation, which brings the real value of the parental contribution far below its 2020 level, when it was last raised. Please note that aggregate inflation over the last years accounts for around 30%, and also that if it is put into practice by the so-called government consolidation package last week, families with the smallest children will come by up to an additional CZK 42,000 a year, which is the sum of the annual discount on a wife or husband in the home and kindergarten, which the government wants to cancel without mercy and without compensation. So I propose that this item be placed as the second item in today's negotiations, or fixed tomorrow at 12 o'clock. Thank you and I beg you to support these two important bills.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-000-000.u33	Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-000-000.u34	Mr Vice-President, I'm sorry, I just didn't say - that point of Communication - I would like to include the non-communication and arrogance of this government, because Minister Rakušan is not this week, and I would like the Prime Minister to comment, if necessary, on Tuesday, May 30, as the first point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-000-000.u35	I had it written here, 30th as the first point, so that's fine, thank you. And now, please, Mr Radek, he's Rozvoral up. You have one point, I have written here, so five minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-000-000.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to put item 41, which is the House press 22, an amendment to the Income Tax Act, as the first item in today's negotiations. The SPD movement has submitted this amendment to motivate young couples to increase the Czech population, which would help to pay pensions in the future. At present, our rule of law, within the meaning of the Income Tax Act, knows several types of discounts and advantages in the area of personal income tax. The most famous and universal is the so-called basic discount on the taxpayer. There is also a discount on the second spouse, discounts for disabled workers, this is specifically a discount on first and second degree disability, a discount on third degree disability, a discount on ZTTP licence holders and a discount on the working student. The proposed adjustment aims to significantly reduce the direct tax burden and increase the available net income for taxpayers, specifically for working parents, their families, family members and children who are caring for and nourishing, and thus closely related increases in motivation for the creation of families, especially families with more children, and, last but not least, to ensure that working parents and families are not often forced to apply in a very humiliating, complex and often unsuccessful way for benefits of state social support or assistance in material distress only to ensure the basic needs of their own lives and for their children. The long-term aim of the proposal is to promote positive populative and demographic development of the Czech society, in particular to support long-term, best stable and stable birth rates, which is a desirable trend from a general social point of view, but also from a macroeconomic point of view, for example in connection with the maintenance of our social system, especially its pension component. In other words, this is a key interest within the meaning of the future development of Czech society in order to ensure long-term funding of social transfers, in the first place of so-called mandatorial social expenditure, especially insurance social benefits, as well as other parts of the advanced system of our social policy and social services, including in a broader sense the financing of health care, education and other important public policies. In relation to the overall philosophy of the proposal, we consider it important to mention the results of the MMS survey, which states that 33 percent of parents will not have another child solely for financial reasons, due to lack of finance, and 17 percent of parents will not do so because of inadequate housing, which is a very similar issue. According to 43 percent of respondents to this survey, an increase in the so-called parental and parental allowance would help families the most, and 18 percent of respondents would see an increase in the child tax advantage as the greatest aid. In addition to this, let us add a comment from the economist Hana Horská, who says that the most families with three or more children are among low-income groups with basic or unfinished education and, on the contrary, at least among college students. So if the state wants to motivate families to have more children, it must target the middle class, which is precisely the ambition of this proposal. That is why the most sensitive support is addressed to parents caring for three or more children. The proposed measures do not mean a deterioration in the current situation for any now active income tax payer and, on the contrary, for a large number of income tax payers, a reduction in their actual taxes and thus an increase in their net income. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-000-000.u37	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, and the other one who is logged in is Mrs. Karla Maříková. I see one point again, so five minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-000-000.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. From 1 March 2024 motorway signs should be increased, but only for cars with internal combustion engines. For hybrids, they'll be a mouthful, and for electric cars they'll even be totally free. Does this mean that electric cars and hybrids damage our highways less? According to this proposal, only the rich will be able to ride free highways, because who can afford to buy a new expensive electric car? Perhaps it is hardly a senior car that is used to transport to a doctor or to buy, or one who is glad to be able to buy a car so that he can transport from work to work, operate his business or pick up children from school. The European Parliament has banned the sale of new cars with an internal combustion engine since 2035 as part of the search for emission reductions. In 2021, Prime Minister Petr Fiala claimed that the ban on the sale of cars with an internal combustion engine was unimaginable to him. The paradox is that it was just under the Presidency of the Czech Republic in the Council of the European Union when this was voted. And now we can see that it is this government that still supports this green madness and has begun with highway signs. Whoever didn't believe the real bullying was just ahead of us, this is just the beginning. This government is doing everything in its power to restrict and piss off low-income groups and middle class. Having a car of your own equals being free and a single person is very hard to control. Dictators from Brussels would very much like to direct us all, and this government of Petr Fiala is their kind of extended hand. The Green Deal is mere hypocrisy and a tool to enslave and control people, and green lunatics use a green attack on fossil fuels and a combined attack on CO2 emissions. Let's see who's trying to limit and prohibit us. With the price of road signs for cars with internal combustion engines, for those cars that are said to burden our environment so badly, the government comes, whose ministers have a car with an internal combustion engine and a driver set up at the entrance and take it to the Ministry, or to the Chamber of Deputies, even if they have a few hundred metres or could easily reach an ecological tram, when they are so keen to take care of the environment. What hypocrisy, huh? I would rather not talk about the papals in Brussels, who have a mouthful of ecology and fly a private jet, or about the tankers and their emissions imported by liquefied gas. However, only a little more than one hundred global CO2 emissions come from the operation of passenger cars. The reduction of CO2 emissions due to the operation of passenger cars, which is now not only obsessed with the European Union, is completely pointless from this point of view. For electric cars, CO2 emissions arising from the production of electricity and their batteries are forgotten. When you're all in this government with such environmentalists, you care about the environment, and you want our citizens who have their older cars and are happy to ride with them, because they just don't have electric cars, so you want to make the road signs more expensive to them so that you can gradually decommission your bullying cars with internal combustion engines, so I would like to propose a new point called Discussing how cars with internal combustion engines weigh more highways than hybrids or electric cars, and I would like to propose that for fixed points. And whether the ministers here and this entire government will explain their ecological actions, why they drive in cars with internal combustion engines, or whether they will start to drive nicely environmentally in urban transport, or they will prefer to walk when they join this green madness, which will reduce the standard of living that Western civilization has managed to achieve. [[11.10 hours]] Maybe the Prime Minister could eco-enhanc his way to work on foot or on a bike ride, because he's probably trained from the running belt or the bluetooth bike and the 3D app, where they can choose any route in the world they've taken from taxpayers' money to Strakovka, and at least he'd learn from the people in the field what people really think about their lies and actions. You preach water and drink wine, I guess. The car is freedom, and you want to cut people's freedom in all forms at Brussels' direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-000-000.u39	Thank you, and other applicants are Mr. Vladimír Zlínský. I have one point here again, so five minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-000-000.u40	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, I confess that today's point, which I will propose, will once again be somewhat controversial. I would like to ask for the inclusion of the new agenda point for tomorrow as the first item entitled Analysis of the benefits and adverse effects of vaccination with genetic vaccines for our population. As an MP and a doctor, I consider it necessary and necessary for our public, both professional and lay, to be familiar with the benefits of vaccination with individual types of genetic vaccines, including vectors, as this benefit has evolved over time and as there have been leap genetic transformations of SARS-CoV-2 virus. Furthermore, it should be explained how it is possible that genetic vaccines have been extinguished so quickly and whether this type of vaccination is suitable for rapid mutation of RNA viruses if promised by the responsible authorities to have long-term or longer-term efficacy. The most interested professional and lay public are the side undesirable consequences of vaccination with genetic vaccines, including repeated strengthening doses. So far, there is a suspicious absolute information silence. Only information appears about the suspicious death of young people or middle - aged people in the sense of "dead youth, died suddenly. " And there are also reports of permanent consequences in terms of autoimmune degenerative diseases, central nervous system or vascular or myocardial impairment, or a fall in number of babies born early in 2022. Unfortunately, people with disabilities, real people, are turning to me in this regard, and I have one case in the nearest family, who quite rightly demand an answer to the question of whether their case is unique or a systemic matter. They express distrust not only for vaccination with genetic vaccines, but they no longer trust the composition of normal children's vaccines. There are medical studies that suggest that genetic vaccines include, among other things, the ability of these vaccines to spread to virtually all tissues in the body, to persist in the body for a long time, or the risk of possible incorporation of vaccines in vaccine cells, and to persist here. Can these properties contribute to the development of possible adverse effects of vaccines? I'm asking. Is it possible that the truth would be that many people died as a result of genetic vaccination, many people permanently damaged their health, responsible persons would try to sweep everything under the carpet and identify opponents as liars and misinformers? I note that this is a question, not a statement. If we do not face up to this problem, we will not answer the questions asked and there will be an end to problems that are beginning to appear and which can become massive over time, it will lead to a total undermining of trust in all global and national social institutions and instruments of democracy and science as such with unseen social consequences. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-000-000.u41	děkovat you, Mr. Ambassador, and another of the applicants is Mrs. Iveta Štefanová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-000-000.u42	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose a change in the agenda for today's meeting for a simple reason. Here in the House, we are to adopt new laws, laws that are beneficial for people and for the functioning of our state, to discuss the current problems of our state, our citizens, and to address them with the preference of the legislation that is most needed in the current situation. I do not see the benefits or topicality in the amendment to the Czech Television and Czech Radio Act, when it is unmistakably proposed to extend the number of councillors to 18 on Czech Television, to 9 on Czech Radio. How does it help people and the Czech state to control public media by government? Nothing. It's exactly the law we don't need. We don't need him at all. It doesn't do people or the state any good, nothing good. The only thing it will bring is higher financial costs and greater influence in public media for a particular group of people. In addition, laws such as the Law on extraordinary remission of social security premiums and the contribution to state employment policy and execution costs and the Act on extraordinary forgiveness and the demise of certain tax debts are very beneficial and will help a number of people in a difficult life situation. However, what seems absolutely clear to me is that the government coalition sees quite differently, so it prefers the control of the public media over the effective aid of people, because otherwise I cannot explain the preposition of a senseless and completely unnecessary amendment to the Czech Television and Czech Radio Act, with which the opposition has logically a problem and tries to do everything to prevent this harmful law from being adopted, before the laws that are needed and on which there is broad agreement. So even though the proposal has already been made here, I think this change in the program is more than necessary. So let's think about what really needs to be addressed, what is really important and what is just some kind of power whim. So let us first discuss paragraphs 102 and 103, House prints 377 and 374, before the Czech Television Act. [[Right 384]] I therefore propose a change in the order of the items of today's negotiations, in order: paragraph 103 as the first point of today's negotiations and paragraph 102 as the second point of today's negotiations, and let us do what is right. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-000-000.u43	Thank you. I'm writing it down. This is Mrs Poshar, the next enrollment, and this is Mrs Pošarová. Please prepare Mr Oldřich Černý, Mr Černý should follow him again and then Mr Koten. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-000-000.u44	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to place a new point on a program called "Products to ensure cheap and environmentally friendly electricity." This is a proposal to open up the issue of reparations, claims of the Czech Republic after Germany. It is a sensitive issue, but at present the possibility is open to advantages for both parties, which will not only ensure, but also make electricity cheaper. Germany is currently shutting down its last nuclear power plant, which means further electricity increases. There is a shortage and danger for companies both in Germany and in the Czech Republic. Most people in Germany and the Czech Republic are opposed to shutting down nuclear power plants. We also produce electricity cheaply in the Czech Republic, and a third more than we consume, but we send all of it to Leipzig, from there we buy it back five times and six times overpriced. This reduces the competitiveness of our companies. Firms are failing, people are losing their jobs and their home production. Foreign firms leave us in countries where energy is cheaper because we have the highest energy price in the European Union. This is a liquidation process and irreversible damage. [[11.20 hours]] At the same time, we also propose the exit from the Leipzig Stock Exchange with the electricity needed for our state and the exchange to Leipzig go only with the excess of electricity that we produce in our country. This could also add some of the lack of electricity for Bavaria, according to the negotiations with Germany to resolve the reparation. In the case of an agreement, it is possible to take over and operate other closed nuclear power plants in Germany. It would also be a partial compensation for the fact that in our country, and often on fertile soil, a number of German companies, supermarkets and warehouses, which we provide cheap labour against Germany, motorways and other transport routes, on whose repairs the German party does not participate. We therefore propose negotiations with German partners, in the first phase with Bavaria. Bavaria has five blocks on its territory: Gundremmingen, block B+C, Isar 1+2, Grafenrheinfeld with a total output of 6 421 MWh, that is, three times the size of Temelín. Bavaria may be the first country to cooperate with the Czech Republic to send a signal to Berlin to correct the wrong decision of the European Union and the German governments. At the same time, the deindustrialisation of Bavaria will be prevented. Inexpensive, non-emission and reliable electricity will be restored to the five-block nuclear power plant according to the strictest safety standards. This will also contribute to the decarbonisation of combustion plants and to the correction and partial replacement of natural gas shortages after deciding not to use Nord Stream's built-up transport capacity and its explosion damage. This can be solved by transferring the number of jointly agreed nuclear power plants into the ownership and operation of the Czech Republic. After years, we will deal with the reparation claims after Germany recognized by the winning powers of World War II in this mutually beneficial and currently very timely manner. It is also at a time when we remember the suffering of the Žid interned in the German ghettos who were gathered here before their transport to concentration camps. There they were tortured and murdered inhumanely during World War II, and only a small part of them survived. Their descendants, relatives, and all decent people, both in the Czech Republic and in Germany, still experience trauma and respectfully remember these victims of Nazism. We have a win-win solution, so let's act on time before the KKW ISAR2 and KKW Neckarwestheim employees' working teams unfold. Other employees of renewed KKW can be easily obtained from the Czech Republic and Germany and social security of experienced KKW employees can be restored. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-000-000.u45	Thank you for another duly applied for is Mr Černý. You've got two points, so I'll give you ten minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-000-000.u46	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose a new item on the agenda for today's meeting. It results from the government's press conference on tax changes last week. Ironically, the current government, or better said, the current government parties, when they were in opposition during the last parliamentary term, criticized the government for bad and sometimes confused communication to the public. What we witnessed last week, for example, only confirms that the communication of the current government is much worse and is getting worse. But to get to the point that I want to say and that I want to propose. This results from the press conference last week and from the overall tax package that the government presented so chaoticly last week. So I would like to propose a new point on the agenda for today's meeting called the Attack of the Government on Traders. Allow me to give a brief explanation and explanation. As part of the plan to improve the state of public finances and ensure decent pensions, the government wants to raise more funds from self-employed people, i.e. from businessmen. For example, it wants to increase their social security advances, and it is not just any increase, it is an increase of 60 percent. Yes, it is true that this is not an immediate increase, but a gradual increase, but the fact that the increase is disproportionately high does not change anything, and that it will mean a very noticeable intervention in the operation and life of these businessmen. For them, this will mean bringing thousands of extra crowns into the system each year. It is quite smiling that the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura of the ODS, for example, spoke a few weeks ago for the weekly Echo about the fact that no one was thinking about increasing tradesmen's contributions as part of consolidation. Just promises from posters and billboards are just empty kissing passwords that no one wants and doesn't want to keep. However, the government's proposed increase in tradesmen's contributions will mainly affect the low-income ones. For those, in many cases, it will literally be a liquidation increase. Just as the hunt for small entrepreneurs was marked by the Association of Small and Medium Enterprises. The government seems to be unaware of the enormous importance of businessmen, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, i.e. people who carry huge risks. Compared to employees, for example, businessmen are not entitled to sick leave, maternity leave, no meal vouchers, no infirmary for family members, no entitlement to paid leave, and so on. They therefore carry a significantly greater risk than employees. For example, if businessmen want to make vacations, only unpaid ones, vacations are at the expense of their salary. Thus, traders do not draw or have the right to benefit from the benefits of employees, and despite all this, the government throws sticks at them and digs ditches between them and employees. However, in the context of my proposed item on the agenda, it is important to mention one further aspect. The proposed drastic increase in tradesmen's contributions will most likely affect those who have already been hit hard from all the constraints caused by the cod pandemic. These are small tradesmen in fields such as gastronomy, crafts and retail trades. Maybe an IT guy with a hundred thousand-dollar intake can handle the proposed change, and she won't feel much of it, but a hairdresser in a smaller town or a village will wipe out this government package. For example, the chief economist Trinity Bank, Lukáš Kovanda, quoted: "The timing is very inappropriate. The business was hit by the covideo crisis and partly by high inflation. The state should give them time to exhale and not burden them with increased contributions. It may be possible to talk about it in the long run, but there was no discussion here." End of quote. So I'm asking, what's the government's goal? Do we want to promote entrepreneurship and the development of society? Do we want to support citizens who work on their own and at their own risk, or do we want to eliminate them? Therefore, as I have already said, I propose a point called the Attack of the Government on Traders, and given that this is an up-to-date and very pressing problem, I propose that it be placed as the first point in today's negotiations, i.e. to put this point before the already firmly placed points. At the same time, I would also present the proposal for my second point and briefly justify it. This second point is called Crime Prevention as a means of reducing crime in the Czech Republic. This topic is very important for society as such and its discussion and discussion here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies can ensure better functioning of the entire criminal prevention system. Every year, around 10,000 prisoners leave the gates of prisons throughout the Czech Republic, which is not a negligible number, but the relapse of these fellow citizens is about 70 percent. It is necessary to take measures to bring these people back into society so that they do not again go into prison. This is a problem which currently threatens the security of residents throughout the Republic, because 75 474 people were prosecuted in the Czech Republic in 2022. Statistical data show that a well-planned crime prevention strategy can prevent crime, which contributes to the security of both society and the sustainable development of the state. This improves the quality of life for citizens and reduces the costs associated with the criminal justice system, including the necessary costs arising from crime. The annual costs of convicted persons are around CZK 10 billion per year. [[11.30 hours]] According to the Council of Europe, the Czech Republic is the seventh in Europe and third in the European Union in Slovakia and Lithuania in the number of 180 prisoners per 100 000 inhabitants. It is therefore important to ask whether it is possible to include persons in the execution of the sentence back into society. An individual who wants to change in prison and after being released from prison must want to change himself. They must change their values, focus and comply with common standards of behaviour, both social and legal standards. It will also depend on how the environment will be open to the individual. The inclusion of condemned people back into society is a very complex process, because the convictions lived a troubled life and were able to obtain many bad habits and advice from other condemned ones. It is necessary to always have a positive effect on them already in prison, try to remove negative habits and try to change their thinking so that they can figure out for themselves that it would be for them and at the end of the day for society, if they started going in the right direction, it is above all not to commit criminal activity. [[Good?]] The state spends considerable money to support these convicted people, where state and non-state organizations will also be involved, various private non-profit entities, but above all it depends on individuals themselves whether they want to spend their lives after prisons, in prisons, or be a full-fledged, beneficial citizen in the first place for themselves, especially for their family and subsequently for society. The SPD movement, of course, wants to promote the security of our society in this regard, increase the quality of life and ensure a lower financial intensity of the entire criminal justice system. I therefore propose this point, as I have already said, called Crime Prevention as a means of reducing crime in the Czech Republic. We have a project in place to help convicts who are in prison and then help them after their release. It can also help his family to secure accommodation, pay off debts, and allow him to lead a proper life. Please place this point after the fixed points already included. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-000-000.u47	Thank you, both points are recorded. And now another of the applicants is Mr Koten, and then Mr Kettner will be prepared twice. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-000-000.u48	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, colleagues, I would like to place here a point that should be called State's failure to pay pensions and now goes to seniors a letter from health insurance companies that they owe. This concerns tens of thousands of pensioners who have already applied for a pension last year, so far they do not have their pension notice, and since they do not work, health insurance companies begin to register their debt and therefore send them money with the amount due they should pay. [[Letters?]] The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs defends itself that the number of applications is much larger than in previous years, but it is quite unacceptable for people who have properly applied for a pension to get into debt traps by requiring health insurance companies that the State should already pay for them. This is quite a big problem, because the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs has already promised several times to remedy it, but the remedy is still not coming. And since those people who are harmed in this way can also happen that by not having a pension yet paid, they will, of course, also get into financial problems, because if this dose does not go to them, they will have to go again for other benefits, because they will basically have nothing to live for. It would therefore be good if the point with this name, because it concerns a really large number of people, was ranked as the first point, because the board of authorities "turn to our infolink" really does not help them, and the solution must come really very, very quickly. Savings for people who were waiting for an old-age pension are definitely running out after five, six months, and it would really be necessary to discuss it here, and thus the problem, the solution to the problem of speeding up and hastening. I therefore propose this point as the first point in today's negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-000-000.u49	Thank you and please Mr Kettner, who has two points. I'll give you ten minutes straight.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-000-000.u50	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have two points on the proposal. It will not surprise you that it is once again in the field of education. The first point I would like to propose should be the adaptation of hygiene standards in education. In the media in general on the official pages of the five-calice, there has been a report that hygiene standards, which are somehow obsolete, should be adapted and that we should be progressive in some way. And I, when I read the suggestions, there's a cause and a consequence for me. We don't solve the cause, and we want to sew the consequences with a hot needle in some way, and that's insufficient capacity in schools. We've had an unsolved capacity problem here for many years. We can predict what the development would be, we have some population curve, we knew this would happen. A very similar problem, as high school is now dealing with, is an identical problem in kindergarten. We now have strong population years, a refugee wave, and suddenly the problem has escalated here. For me, the adjustment should be in some way systemic. Okay, the capacities are insufficient, let's do this systemically, for example by expanding the capacity of schools and kindergartens, what we've slept through, we should start investing in some way. Adjusting hygiene standards, the target, is clear. Today, hygiene standards prevent schools and classrooms from being overcrowded in some way. When we reduce these standards in some way, the capacity of schools will remain the same according to existing standards, but suddenly our number of children will increase. It will be at the expense of hygiene, and it will be at the expense of children's health. By the way, by the way, by the fact that the hygiene standards may have any significance, they haven't been touched for a long time, they probably worked and really had meaning. Then why disturb them? And that we can change that in some way? I've heard such a thought that, for example, one sink in the hallway is enough. I can't imagine very well when I have a classic school hallway where there's six, seven classes, like six, seven classes, if you count how many pupils it is, how they all take turns at one sink. We're always talking about kids, how they should adhere to hygiene habits, wash their hands before each meal, so I can see how the supervision is going crazy, how the whole six classes can be replaced gradually by one sink. I can see now - splashed water, injuries, because some kid slips in there, slaps his face, breaks his arm. It's just problematic. I didn't quite understand what's outdated about the fact that we have, for example, one sink in the classroom. So do we want to achieve something in the area of housing as it was in the first Republic? When we had pavilion houses in the first Republic, the norm at the time was that there was one sink on the floor and a shared toilet on the floor, and yet that was enough. So even in this direction, we're going to go to the point of just being overly demanding? [[11.40 hours]] This means that I would really like to discuss this in a broader plenary if this is really the direction we want to take, so I will repeat once again the title of this point: adaptation of hygiene standards in education, and I would like to do this as the first point today. And the second point I've tried to suggest here before is the so-called parameterization of teachers' assistants. I've said it here before, but I'll repeat it again: we have a very bad inclusion up here - when I'm building a system, I always have to start from the bottom, and we started building a chimney without having any more purchased land, and that's what it looks like. And really, the only thing that doesn't even keep the system going is that it keeps the teachers from going crazy, it's the teachers' assistants who are pulling the biggest thorn out of their heels and helping them to work in some way at least a little bit of the teaching set up. And now came the so-called parameterization of teaching assistants, which was renamed the institutionalization of teaching assistants, when those teachers' assistants will be attributed according to school facilities, by classes, not as they are now based on the needs of children. That means the most bits on it will be schools that have more kids there at once, they'll just be forced to release those assistants, they'll leave. Frankly, it's not a big deal. If you look, educator's assistants, someone's got a quarter-time job, someone's half-time, the director has to combine it differently so that at least there's a way to accept the salary. Frankly, I can't imagine a single mother doing this job if she doesn't have a husband to contribute to her family budget, those finances are really tragic. And so if we push through this system and you lose your educator's assistants, they leave, the kids stay there with the problems, I'm telling you straight, the teachers go crazy. If some of them are only slightly involved, I think this is definitely coming. So the second point that I propose is the Parameterization of the teaching assistants, and I would suggest this as the second point of today's negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-000-000.u51	Thank you, I've got everything marked. Mr. Radovan Vích is the last logged in at this time. Ambassador, I've got one point marked here, so five minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-000-000.u52	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good morning, dear colleagues. I propose that item 76, which is the House Press 258, be the first item on today's agenda for the Chamber of Deputies. It is amazing that five-wheelers not only do not present their own bills that would be useful to Czech citizens, but also block opposition bills, i.e. those proposed by the SPD, which could benefit our citizens. It is a great pity that the House Press 258, namely the proposal of Members Lucie Šafránková, Tomio Okamura, Radim Fiala and others to issue a law amending Act No. 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance, as amended, was not given the opportunity to be discussed at first reading. When I refer to this proposal in substance, it is a proposal to amend the basic rules for calculating pensions, namely pensions of all types, old-age, disabled and survivors, under the Pension Insurance Act. The pension, as we all know, just to remind you, consists of a basic and a percentage measure. The basic salary is the same for all pensioners and corresponds to 10 percent of the average wage, as declared by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. For the year 2023 this basic area is CZK 40,400. To this base is then added a percentage of an alias of merit component. This is entirely individual for each beneficiary and depends on its previous career, its duration and level of income, i.e. insurance contributions. This percentage is a determining part of the pension. The construction of the calculation and determination of the amount of pensions in the long term is detrimental to low-income pensioners, both old-age, disabled and survivors, i.e. widows, widows, orphans, especially at the moment of statutory pension valorisation, which is based on a combination of an increase in the basic and percentage of the pension, with a higher and decisive increase in the percentage. In the current situation of unprecedented price increases for all basic cost of living, low-income pensioners, especially the lonely ones, are one of the most endangered social groups. They are a group located in the income poverty band or threatened to fall into debt traps and executions. It is therefore essential to increase pensions as quickly as possible, especially the lowest ones. I therefore consider it the most appropriate way to increase the basic pension ratio by 3 percentage points, which is from 10 per cent of the average wage to 13 per cent of the average wage, as suggested by the House Press 258. It can be seen that the government does not address this issue even in the present quasi-department reform. According to our proposal today, the basic component would be CZK 5,205, so that each pensioner would raise CZK 1,165. The magic of the unwanted is virtually the same amount that the government has collected from the extraordinary valorisation of the average pension for this year. So, ladies and gentlemen, I am asking you to support the inclusion of this House press 258, today as the first item. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-000-000.u53	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. All applications for amendments to the agenda have been exhausted. I see no one else is reporting in, or has been logged in. At this point, we will embark on the voting process. I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby. Yes, I see an interest in the check-out. And I see an interest in the performance here. Then I'll unsubscribe all of you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-000-000.u54	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I will allow myself, on behalf of all coalition clubs, to report all proposals for new points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-000-000.u55	Yes, I'm marked, so all the new points are vetoed. Let me just remind you that we will be voting in a few moments on the draft amendments to the agenda for the meeting. All new points are being brought in. I'm shutting you all out at this point. I'll ask you to sign up. President Výborný is still interested in speaking.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-000-000.u56	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'll take the liberty of making one more motion to change the program. It's an alternative proposal to my colleague Patrik Nacher's proposal, after some kind of mutual agreement. He proposed to assign points 101, 102, respectively prints 377 and 384 before printing 263, which means an amendment to the Czech Television Act. I propose that we start today's meeting at paragraph 97, House Press 263, Czech Television, and prints 377 and 384, in this order, put it firmly, and given the time it is, firmly at 12.10, so that we do not get into any collision with time. So fixed at 12.10 to include prints 377 and 384, third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-000-000.u57	So we will vote this as a counterproposal for Mr Nacher's proposal, 377 and 384, to 12.10. We can therefore proceed to the vote. I'll go to the points. So I'm skipping points that have been tapped. The first item that we will be voting on is the transfer of paragraph 241 of Ms Jana Pastuchová's petitioner. It is a civil code and is interested in transferring it to today, after point 98. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 46, registered 168, in favour of 68, against 52. Result: rejected. We also have an item tabled by Mr Patrik Nacher. But there were two counterproposals to him. Starting from the back. The last counterproposal was the counterproposal of President Excellent, including paragraphs 377 and 384 to 12.10 today. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? The 47th vote, the 172th vote, was signed in for 172th vote, there was no one against it. Result: accepted. The next item that we are going to vote on is the point of Mr Jiří Kobza's translator. This is point 13, Criminal Code. There's an interest in putting him as the third point today. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 48, logged in 176, for was 22, against was 85. Result: rejected. The same translator, Mr Jiří Kobza, presents the House Press 16. It's a public holiday. The proposal is to place him as the fourth point today. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 49, logged in 176, for was 21, against was 88. Result: rejected. The next item is the item by Mrs Lucie Šafránková. This is point 31, House Press 9, the Social Services Act. First, we will vote for the first item today. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 50, logged in 176, for was 24, against was 83. Result: rejected. The same point was included in the second variant at 18. Five, 11 o'clock. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 51, logged in 176, in favour of 79, against 86. Result: rejected. The next item is also presented by Mrs Lucie Šafránková. This is point 80, House Press 266, the Act on State Social Support. The first option was to put her on tonight, and that's the second point. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 52, logged in 176, for was 25, against was 82. Result: rejected. The same point in the second variant, and that's to put it on tomorrow, at 12.00. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 53, logged in 176, in favour of 81, against 85. Result: rejected. Next, we will be voting on Mr Kvoral, Mr Rozvoral, paragraph 41, House Press 22. This is the Income Tax Act. The Member wishes to include him as the first item in today's negotiations. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 54, registered 177, for was 19, against was 87. Result: rejected. Then there is the last point where Mr Radovan Vích asked for a transfer, and this is point 77, House Press 258, on pension insurance. The Member proposes to include it as the first item today. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 55, registered 177, for was 22, against was 89. Result: rejected. This has exhausted all the points proposed as amendments to the agenda for the meeting. I see a request here with the President's right of priority. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-000-000.u58	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, at this moment, we have three prints in third reading. From the Rules of Procedure, we have reserved time for the third reading on Wednesdays between 9 and 14 o'clock, but the House may decide by its decision to set aside other hours. Therefore, I would like to propose that we decide to set aside the next hours today, i.e. from 15 to the end of the day. At the same time, I would also like to make another procedural proposal, namely a proposal for a meeting and a vote after 19th, 21st and 24th hours. I make these proposals on behalf of all five coalition clubs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-000-000.u59	Thank you, so we have two suggestions. I see the Prime Minister here. [[Strong noise in the hall.]] I'll ask everyone to remain calm in the hall.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-000-000.u60	Of course, I was counting on the five-wheelers to come forward with this proposal under the Rules of Procedure. It's Section 95a. In the section pursuant to § 95 para. 1 says that the House can bring this up, and it is important to do so by two parliamentary clubs. [[12.00 hours]] So I'm holding the veto of one MP club, and if there's another MP club, the law won't be able to be discussed. If it is not found, of course the House will vote on it and this matter will be discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-000-000.u61	Mr. Chairman Benda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-000-000.u62	If you're going to let me join the veto... [[Laughter from the diaper.]] I'm not going. [[Let's hear it from the right.]] I can assure my colleague, Fiala, that I will leave him alone in this. I would just like to say that in paragraph 112, the proposal for a change of organs, on the composition of the House's bodies, I will propose an interruption of this point until the end of the discussion of the Czech Television point, because this is part of the negotiations that are taking place. I want to say this now before the following point is voted on, and that, of course, we will support this proposal as a coalition.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-000-000.u63	So since no one has joined the veto at this time, we will be voting on two proposals, from 15 to the end of the day, and the second proposal that we will continue to act today after 19th, 21st and 24th hours. We will vote on the first proposal from 15 a.m. to the end of the day, third reading. Initiating vote. Who's in? Voting number 56, registered 178, in favour of 140, versus 18. The result is: accepted. And now the second proposal, and that is that today we will continue to act after 19th, 21st and 24th hours. Initiating vote. I ask, who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 57, there was 178, in favour is 94, versus 22. Result: accepted. So let me start another point number.
