ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening another meeting on the 65th session of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome to all of you. In order to record your participation, I will first check you all out and please log in with ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who is applying for a replacement card. I hereby declare that, until the beginning of the hearing, of their absence from the meeting, the following Members applied for the entire working day, for the Pokorná working Jermanová, Bašta Jaroslava for the whole working day for health Nováková, Bělohlávková Nina from 14 to 17 hours for the whole working day, Dufek Aleš from the whole working day for personal Olga, Zborovský Miroslav from 13 to 17 hours for the whole working day, Hájek Martin from the whole working day for work reasons, Hendrych Igor from 16 hours for the whole Radek day for the whole working day for personal Volný, Hofmann Jan from the Vladimír working day for the whole working day for reasons, Jakob Jan from 17.20 for the whole family reasons, Michálek Jakub for the whole working day for personal reasons, Kettner Zdeněk for the whole Richterová day for the whole working day for the whole working day, Kobza Ji from the whole day for the reason of the international travel, Krejza Karel for the whole day without giving a reason, Kubíček Roman from 19 hours for reasons, Šafránková, Lucie Jan to 15 hours of work for the Wenzl Milan day, from the Jiří Mašek day, from the whole working Jiří, from the whole Karel Bohuslav, from the whole working day, from the whole working day, from the Pošarová Potůčková Lucie, from the whole Vondráček day, from the Tureček working day, from the whole working day, from the whole working day, from the whole working Zlínský, from the whole working day, from the whole working day, from the Balaš Vladimír day, from the whole Vojtko Viktor, from the Tesařík Antonín period, from 16th: From the members of the government apologize to Baxa Martin from 17.30 for working reasons, Bek Mikuláš from the whole day for working reasons, Blažek Pavel from the whole day for working reasons, Dvořák Martin from the whole day - personal reasons, Hladík Petr from the whole day for working reasons, Lipavskýý Jan from the whole day for foreign travel, Nekula Zdeněk from the whole day for health reasons, Rakušan Vít from 17 hours for working reasons and Šalomoun Michal from 16.30 for working reasons. Minister Baxa states that his apology is from 15.30. With a replacement card, Mr Lacina will vote. It's a replacement card number 15. I would now like to inform you about the proposals on which today's grémium has been agreed. Before I do so: Mr Bohuslav Svoboda cancels his apology. Now, then, the draft agenda for the meeting on which today's grémium agreed. We propose the following procedure this week. Today discuss points in order: item 1, House press 249/8, amendment to the Public Procurement Act, returned to the Senate; Point 2, House printing 311/4, amendment to the Public Health Act, returned by the Senate; subsequently point 6, House printing 362, amendment to the Law on the circulation of seeds and seed, second reading. We also propose to discuss points from the Act block - first reading in this order: paragraph 15, House printing 383, amendment to the Criminal Register Act; paragraph 16, House printing 403, amendment to the Law on Crisis and State Material Reserves; paragraph 17, House printing 405, amendment to the Capital Market Business Act; paragraph 18, House printing 409, amendment to the Act on Investment Incentives; paragraph 19, House printing 410, amendment to the Line Act; paragraph 21, House printing 430, amendment to the Act on the Enforcement of Property and Things in Criminal Procedure; paragraph 23, House printing 435, amendment to the Act on Recovery Procedures and Resolution of the Crisis in the Financial Market. This order of points proposed for discussion on Tuesday would subsequently be valid for other days, pending the discussion of paragraph 23. Tomorrow, Wednesday, May 31, we propose that at 12 o'clock we firmly include paragraph 22, House press 431, amendment to the Act on Matrics, at first reading. If all the fixed points were discussed, we would continue to discuss further points from the Law block - first reading, from point 26 et seq. On Friday, 2 June, we would discuss points from the third reading block in order: paragraph 101, House press 332, amendment to the Railway Act; paragraph 99, House press 307, amendment to the Local Charges Act; Point 104, House press 347, of the Government's bill on the abolition of obsolete legislation; paragraph 105, House press 360, Government bill on public auctions; paragraph 106, House press 361, Government draft law on public auctions related to public auctions. Finally, today, about five minutes after the 65th meeting was interrupted, we would formally end the extraordinary 54th meeting at which the programme was exhausted. That's all on my side. An overview of the remaining points has been sent to you by e-mail. And now there are already enlisted Members and Members with proposals to change the agenda of the meeting and the first to sign up is President Marek Benda. And I ask you, colleagues, to keep you quiet so that we can hear what proposals the President is giving. If you have anything to do with this, please move into the lobby. We'll be fine with the Prime Minister while you're still here. [[From the O.R., Pssst.]] Thank you for the helpful audio accompaniments, and I am now giving the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-000-000.u2	Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would undoubtedly be shouting out the House, so I do not need to lower my voice to zero, but allow me to make proposals that we have also communicated to opposition subjects, yet they are not supported in the negotiations of political Gremia, so they need to be read as a government coalition at this time. We propose that, tomorrow, Wednesday, 31 May, four voting points be included firmly at 13.45, paragraph 114, a proposal to elect a candidate for appointment as Vice-President of the Supreme Audit Office, second round; and paragraph 115, a proposal for the appointment of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Grant Agency of the Czech Republic; and paragraph 116, a proposal for the election of members of the Radio and Television Council; and paragraph 117, a proposal for the election of members of the Supervisory Committee of the National Sports Agency. Those would be the points that would be tomorrow at 13.45. [[14.10 hours]] And then I have one more proposal for Friday this week. This means, on 2 June, points in third readings are included so far, and I propose that one more point be included for them, namely point 111, of the Senate Bill amending Act No. 326/1999 Coll., on the residence of foreigners in the territory of the Czech Republic and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended, and other related laws, House printing 165, in third reading. The time limits will be over by then and I think we can already discuss this press, which is here for more than a year. So many of my suggestions on the agenda. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-000-000.u3	Thank you, too. I'm just gonna make sure that we vote in one vote, because that's how it's fixed? If no one objects, that's how I propose it. Thank you. It is now registered with the priority right of President Schillerová, followed by President Okamura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-000-000.u4	Thank you for the floor to the President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me to make a motion to include a new point in today's House meeting, which means the third point after the Senate's vomit, if I were not granted, the first point tomorrow morning, and if I had not been granted even in this, the first point after the written interpelations on Thursday. Now let me justify my point. I want to call it Losing the credibility of the Treasury Secretary. For more than half a year from this point, I note that last year the Parliament of the Czech Republic was deceived by the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura, when approving the Act on the State Budget for 2023, by the Minister of Finance, in a historically unprecedented way - as none of the finance ministers had so far, and he has not allowed that to happen since time immemorially. Indeed, the Minister of Finance submitted a budget that he had to know very well about his income and expenditure that they would not correspond to reality. He simply and simply drew and invented part of the income, politely put, and forgot part of the expenditure. As a result, he improved his state budget balance by CZK 150 billion. It is the first time in modern history since the Chamber of Deputies passed the law of the year, the final form of which was not compiled by real experts, but by dubious marketing communication specialists. They pursued the sole objective of drawing up a budget with a deficit lower than that of the supposedly irresponsible and squandering opposition for each - I repeat, at any cost. Dear House, because the lie has short legs and does not run far, it affects the Czech Republic's management at the end of May, not even in the middle of the year, its annual limit. As early as Thursday, we will know the results of the treasury performance, which, according to the budgetary committee's information, can be considered critical from the point of view of state finance planning. Indeed, it will not be possible to use CZK 50 billion from the Modernization Fund, as everyone has known for six months except the Minister of Finance and the Minister of the Environment of this government. Yes, indeed, the Financial Administration will collect CZK 60 billion less from the tax on unexpected profits because it was set incorrectly and poorly. Yes, it really will not be possible to realize transport investments for more than CZK 30 billion if SFDI does not take a disadvantageous loan, because it simply looked better marketing money for the roads to not count into the budget at all. Yes, indeed, there are CZK 15 billion missing in the budget for extraordinary pension valorisation, because the Minister of Finance has decided to ignore these mandatory expenses in the State Budget Act. Yes, we have an amendment to the State Budget Act. After all, the Deputy Minister of Finance already admitted it indirectly last week to the Committee on Budgets. The question is only when and what story the Minister of Finance Stanjura and his advisors will make up for it, and it will be very difficult for them because they cannot make excuses for war or the energy crisis this year, they cannot even make excuses for opposition. We will probably listen to some other fabulation about the extraordinary expenses that have already occurred and the extraordinary incomes that have yet to be lost, the need to balance the time gap and so on. It's gonna be a desperate argument, but that's not the point. The ancient truth says that the person who fabulated in the past will have a tendency to fabulate further - of course, because it is not possible to accept budget fraud and CZK 150 billion tricks that aimed at deceiving Parliament, the public, the media, would be equal to admitting responsibility for the negative financial effects on the cost of debt service, which, as a result of bad planning from logic, cannot be managed in the most effective way, the responsibility for the costs caused by the problems with the cash flow state, if perhaps the minister and his advisors decided to rely on a miracle and refused to proceed to an urgent realization of the state's financial balance sheet, the responsibility for the costs that these misdeeds against the rules of responsible and faithful budgeting will have on the future credibility of the country's fiscal policy in the eyes of our creditors and credit rating agencies. And all these costs will be crowned by a completely unnecessary amendment to the State Budget Act. We will see what it will do when, instead of serious ministerial work, a member of the government prefers short-sighted advice from political marketers who do nothing to understand the cost of their bad advice, let alone public finances, the liquidity management of the Treasury and the state's management. Of course, responsibility belongs to the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjur, and Prime Minister Petr Fiala, who was repeatedly informed about all accounting tricks in the state budget and knew very well about them, cannot renounce it. Ladies and gentlemen, it is you who has been deceived by the Ministry of Finance, or the Minister of Finance, and it is you who will now have to pull the thorn out of his heel so that the Czech Republic, as a result of the repeated lack of competence of the head of the state register, does not find itself in an unprecedented situation, whose possible consequences are likely to be seen in contrast to the Minister of Finance and its surroundings by each of us. Ladies and gentlemen, especially you from the government coalition, the State Budget Act is the law of the year and the supreme law determining the political priorities of any government. It is confirmed that the government's top law is based on fraud in the range of CZK 150 billion. It's a business card for this government. It is a business card for each of you who voted in favour of this budget. [[14.20 hours]] Please consider the dubious level of ministerial work of Mr Zbyněk Stanjura when approving the expected amendment to the state budget. Do not allow the irreversible damage caused by Mr Stanjura this year to be repeated in the future, albeit partially, by the Czech Republic. For the YES movement, I can certainly guarantee that these damages will be quantified by the Minister of Finance and its advisors to the last million crowns, and at the same time I request the inclusion of an extraordinary point, which is the loss of the credibility of the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura, in terms and dates as I said at the beginning of my speech. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-000-000.u5	Thank you, and Madam President, I'm sorry, I'm going to ask you, if I've written this down correctly, the fixed times are - the first point tomorrow or the first point after the written interviews on Thursday? Is that correct?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-000-000.u6	And also, please, I said as a third point today, after the Senate vomit.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-000-000.u7	Okay, so as the third point today. [[Mrs Schiller: Yes.]] [[Noise in the hall.]] Thank you. And so now President Okamura, who is on the agenda, will speak with priority rights, and I will follow with my application. I ask you to keep your voice down, colleagues and colleagues. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-000-000.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose extraordinary points for the SPD movement on the agenda for today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Firstly, I would propose a point called the Fialův Government's "consolidation" package showing arrogance of power. After a year of doing nothing, Petr Fiala's government approved the so-called - in quotation marks - consolidation and recovery package of CZK 94,1 billion for this year. It is not a consolidation package, and certainly not a recovery package, but a comprehensive tax reform that will increase taxes for all without distinction, and I am clearly saying under the SPD that the SPD movement is programmed against tax increases for Czech citizens and companies. Not only before the elections, but even recently on television, Prime Minister Petr Fiala of the ODS and the five-wheelers publicly claimed that they would not increase taxes. Last week Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura of the ODS invited us here, the opposition and other commentators to send comments on this material and at the same time set a deadline for sending them for just five working days. At the same time, it sends us here in a situation where, as we all see it literally live, government five-calices are arguing with each other, and they don't even have the consolidation package agreed between each other, so there are different sides of the government five-calice saying they don't agree with it and they refuse to do so. So you guys aren't even discussing this with each other, you're arguing with each other in a government five-wheel drive, and now you're sending it to us to remind us, and we're all going to join you here. The government intends to change a total of 57 legal standards and only the explanatory report has 238 pages, and, as I say, even you are not agreed on this to this day, so not only is it sewn with a hot needle, you do not have it prepared at all, but the extremely negative impact on all citizens in the Czech Republic remains that you want to increase their taxes and make their lives more expensive. According to the SPD movement, there is no dialogue, even dialogue does not work in your government coalition, but it is merely the arrogance of power, and the problem is that all citizens of the Czech Republic and their lives become hostages. Moreover, the government's submitted material, which you sent us to comment on, also shows a number of shortcomings. For example, the government is going to cut CZK 54.4 billion from the national subsidies that have become a regular business for corruption, but the material you sent does not specifically mention, so how are we to comment on it, and in addition, when you are not yet agreed in the government coalition. The SPD movement, as I said, we are programmed against tax increases for Czech citizens and companies, and, of course, proposals for tax increases for Czech citizens and companies, as well as proposals for increasing retirement age and reducing valuations will not simply be supported. For the SPD, the Czech citizens are in the first place, and we have already repeatedly mentioned your proposal, your proposals, in particular, publicly in the media, our complaints. We promote consolidation and recovery of public finances, but we all know that this is possible without increasing taxes on Czech citizens and Czech companies. I would also like to add that we welcome the fact that even on the basis of the SPD appeal, the trade unions have moved on to the general strike. I've been negotiating with the unions for two months now to help us declare a general strike against the general increase in taxes and the increasing retirement age that your government is planning and what you want to promote here in June next month, and the unions have not yet stepped up to hear our request for a general strike to be announced. But I welcome the fact that they've already moved from last week's strike alert to the fact that they want to form a strike committee. I don't think there really is time to hesitate because, as we know, to prepare a general strike - and I have discussed it with the trade unions - it takes several months to ensure on the one hand the functions of basic infrastructure, health facilities, energy and so on, and at the same time that the general strike can be negotiated with all trade unions, and as you know, without trade unions, as we all know, the general strike cannot be announced. There is a need for unions to do this, which also have legislative support, and there is a right to strike. That means, we welcome this union shift, I'm glad that the union leadership feels or has already started to feel, just like the SPD, that the situation is unsustainable, and I hope that the unions will move on to declare the general strike, because in July, August, summer holidays are in, so according to what I've been dealing with the unions, it's not appropriate there, because people are on vacation, workers, workers in the factories, so basically now it's necessary to declare it so that the Fialův Government Five-calice knows that there might be a million people on the streets. And I've already told the unions that the SPD has a clear ambition, and we're not afraid of being the political leader of the general strike, the political leader of the general strike. The SPD is fully prepared for this because we are behind all the working and decent citizens. And I say this repeatedly - we do not hesitate and we want to do this, because the way in which the government actually raises jumping taxes to all citizens - they also make baby water more expensive, watermelon expensive, heat more expensive, housing costs more expensive - that is a completely unacceptable issue and we are simply standing behind the citizens. So I would like to propose again as the first point of today's meeting a point called the Fialův Government's "consolidation" package showing arrogance of power. I would also like to justify this further, because you have notified unilaterally all citizens and companies in the Czech Republic that you will increase their taxes, that you want to increase all citizens to retire, to citizens, and to reduce pension valorisation. But you haven't even discussed it with the opposition, and you haven't even discussed it with the citizens. What do I mean? There is no public debate, there is no public hearing, there is no debate with citizens, there are conferences, so that citizens can comment on it too. [[Noise in the hall.]] Of course, there is also a referendum law missing, which has long advocated the SPD here, and we see why you are against it - that is the arrogance of power.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-000-000.u9	I'm sorry, Mr President, but there's too much noise in the left side of the hall. So I'm asking you to keep your voice down, colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-000-000.u10	So we're going to propose it here again and again on the agenda so that we can publicly discuss it here in front of the citizens of the House, where else, if you don't want to discuss it elsewhere - and not here, you've already rejected that point for me last time to discuss it here - so that the opposition can comment on it, because I'm stressing again, as we all see from the media, you are not agreed on your own in the government coalition. You yourselves are arguing (?)). Somebody wants to raise taxes more, somebody wants to raise taxes some other way and so on. [[14.30 hours]] Just that you all want to raise taxes in the government, that remains, and that you want to increase the retirement age, but you yourself are not agreed, so we, as the opposition, would like to get involved in this debate with the fact that, of course, we are rejecting it, and we will once again introduce to you our proposals for solutions, which we have already presented in the media several times, how to consolidate public finances without raising taxes to citizens and companies. This is simply an important point, and I would really like to ask the members of the government coalition to finally agree on this point, this proposal by the SPD, that citizens, by the way, who represent the citizens here who voted for opposition here in the House, so that, on behalf of the citizens, we can have yours in the quotes of the consolidation package, which, as I said, is not a consolidation package, and certainly not a recovery package, so that we can discuss it here. As the second item in today's House of Deputies meeting, I would like to propose a point called the Fialův Government has shown absolute unpreparedness for this year's increase in the number of pupils ending primary schools. As we know, there has been another total failure of the Fialův Government, when the Fialův Government, the government of Petr Fiala and the Ministry of Education, which leads the STAN Vít Rakušan movement - leads or rather does not lead, because in a very short time since you are with the government, it is a year and a half, so there is already the third Minister of Education for the STAN movement, it takes place there as on the running belt, which means that the Ministry probably no longer leads, we see the chaos, and as a result of the chaos that reigns in the Fialův Government and the Ministry of Education, it is that the government has shown absolute unpreparedness for this year's increase in the number of pupils ending primary schools. These pupils are approximately 11,000 more than last year. [[There's noise in the room.]] Can I just ask you one more time?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-000-000.u11	Yes, thank you. Gentlemen and ladies, please lower your voice, if we have anything to deal with, and this is especially true of the left half of the hall, so move to the lobby so that the President can continue his performance. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-000-000.u12	As a result of this inactivity and incompetence of the Fialův Government, there is a situation where there are not enough capacity and thousands of children, namely around 11 000, or 11 000 or more children, thousands of children now do not have a place in the first year of high school for next year for either of the two schools to which they applied, which is of course an extremely difficult and inadequate situation for parents and pupils. Parents are thus forced to look for virtually any study sites for their children so that they do not end up at the employment office in September. The problem concerns especially the capital of Prague and the Central Bohemia Region, but not just them. In addition to the government, regional self-governments have also failed, which, once again, lead the sides of Purple's five-calice government, but also the ANO movement, which, in the case of central education founders, falls into. Demographic development has been well known for years, logically, because we have been seeing here for fifteen years, or thirteen years, fourteen years, that this year will just be more pupils who will be finishing primary school. Thus, this demographic development has been well known for many years, and it has been possible to prepare for this situation gradually without a problem. But the Fialův government neglected, prepared nothing, and now they have been victims of this inactivity and incompetence of parents and their children. According to the SPD movement, a combination is needed here to say our specific proposal - because I always say a specific proposal when we criticise something - a specific proposal for the SPD. According to the SPD, there is a need for a combination of short-term and long-term measures. These short-term ones include the extension of the permitted capacity of students in classes and temporary leases of other suitable facilities for school needs. From a longer perspective, a reform of the form of admission management, long-term system planning of sufficient capacities in secondary education is necessary according to the population development outlook, as well as adapting the form of the structure of secondary education to the needs of the labour market, including a significant extension of technical capacity and, in particular, apprentice education. So I would like, as a second point - just to repeat it - to propose a point called the Purple Government has shown absolute unpreparedness for this year's increase in the number of pupils ending primary schools. As the third extraordinary point at today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, I would like to propose a point called the Fialův Government significantly aggravates the conditions of pension savings. On the other hand, I would add that the SPD is proposing to expand and increase state support for pension savings. The Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Marian Jurečka of KDU-ČSL, proposes, in the framework of a measure that misleadingly calls pension reform, a significant deterioration and tightening of the conditions of state support for voluntary pension savings of citizens. In particular, these are significant restrictions and, in some cases, up to the abolition of State contributions to this type of savings. Only those citizens who have received their savings from pension savings for ten years in instalments as a rent are to receive a new contribution from the State. If they choose them one time, they lose state support. It is a completely unfounded and discriminatory measure that punishes responsible citizens who have long been responsible for their old age. Moreover, the government wants to change other conditions of state aid for pension savings, such as increasing the compulsory monthly amount of the deposit from which the State contribution is granted from CZK 300 to CZK 500 and completely removing this contribution from citizens who pay for pension savings even at retirement age. These are once again demotivating proposals that weaken citizens' willingness to save themselves or their children and grandchildren in retirement. On the contrary, the SPD movement proposes extending and increasing state support for pension savings. We would also provide a state contribution at monthly deposits of less than 300 crowns a month to support the low-income and younger citizens more significantly. We would also extend the state support for building savings, which the government of Petr Fiala from the ODS wants to reduce significantly. As a fourth point, an extraordinary point at today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, I would propose a point called the Purple Government will make conditions worse for working citizens. Under the so-called austerity consolidation package, the government of Petr Fiala from the ODS also wants to aggravate the conditions for the payment of unemployment aid to citizens who have lost their jobs in the short term and are looking for a new one or will requalify themselves. In order to receive unemployment support - and I stress again that it concerns only working citizens, this unemployment benefit has nothing to do with the support of so-called inadaptables - sometimes someone confuses it, but that is a completely different money, a completely different matter, so that this unemployment benefit, to which only the people who have worked, should, according to the government's proposal for the future, be needed to pay social security three months longer than it is now, and, moreover, the Labour Office should stop providing compensation for redundant workers in the event of unpaid severance. The SPD movement disagrees with these proposals. Unemployment aid is an insurance benefit. That's basically insurance paid by working citizens. This support only belongs to citizens who work honestly and take social security out of employment or business. So I'm stressing again, you actually want to, the Fialův government wants to make conditions worse for working citizens. There is no reason to reduce this aid, even since, as we know, the amount of this aid is up to a maximum of CZK 22 790 per month and there are other restrictions. The extension of the mandatory period of payment of insurance premiums for entitlement to unemployment benefit for working citizens or for working citizens who have lost their jobs will thus damage the most vulnerable groups of unemployed persons, who are pre-retired persons or single parents. And we think that it is necessary to support working people in the pre-retirement age, single parents and other working people who suddenly lost their jobs, at the same time looking for new jobs or requalifying themselves. We're talking about working people who paid for it as insurance, unemployment insurance. They're paying for the insurance, and now you want to cut them off. The termination of compensation in the event of unpaid severance payments will, in turn, adversely affect citizens with previous lower working income. By the government, this is an unnecessary and antisocial measure that does not substantially reduce state budget spending, but only harms long-term honest-working citizens who have temporarily lost their jobs. [[14.40 hours]] With regard to savings in the social system, the SPD considers it a priority to immediately end the abuse of social benefits by so-called inadaptable, i.e. persons who avoid work for a long time, even though they can work. We have already submitted the relevant law to the Chamber of Deputies twice to end the abuse of benefits, but the current parties to the Fialův Government Five-calice have always made it impossible for us to approve this law. Here you have to say and put an equal between the fact that the Fialův Government, on the one hand, increases taxes for decent people, all citizens in the Czech Republic and companies, and, on the other hand, rejects the SPD bill to end abuse of benefits that are inadaptable. You encourage inadaptable people and scrape decent people off their skin! And that, of course, is a problem, and the SPD doesn't agree with that. Therefore, I would like to discuss an extraordinary point called the Purple Government to abolish the conditions for working citizens as the fourth point of today's House of Deputies meeting, because we simply cannot remain silent about this. We'd like the government to explain. As a last, fifth point, an extraordinary point at the House of Deputies meeting, I would like to include an item called the European Union will make energy people more expensive. The European Commission, which consists of European Union legislation binding on all Member States, has proposed, with effect from 2029, a total ban on the sale of gas boilers. They should be replaced by so-called hybrid boilers with a mandatory minimum efficiency of 115 per cent using heat pumps, solar panels or hydrogen. Now, to translate this into an understandable explanation of what it means for citizens of the Czech Republic. The transition to these new technologies would cost significantly more than CZK 100,000 for each household involved. Experts consider this plan unrealistic, as it would be a total exchange of 30 million gas boilers, and in many buildings it is also technically impossible. This regulation would mean a real end to the widespread use of gas heating today, and especially to our households, it would once again significantly increase energy costs to a critical to liquidation level with all the negative economic and social impacts imaginable. This is another nonsensical regulation by the institutions of the European Union, which will damage the Czech Republic, its citizens and the business sector. The SPD movement again appeals to the government of Petr Fiala from ODS to try to block this dangerous standard and in no case attempt to put it into practice in the Czech Republic. The European Commission's proposal for a full ban on the use of gas boilers also confirms that membership of the European Union is becoming increasingly disadvantageous for our country and for our citizens.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-000-000.u13	I'm sorry, Mr President, I'm just going to ask my colleagues and colleagues to keep it down. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-000-000.u14	Thank you. Why do I want to put it here? Because we're interested in the SPD, how the Fialův government will stand up to it. How's he gonna stand up to that? Because you want to increase people's taxes now, you are already increasing taxes, because at the last meeting you have already announced an increase in excise duty on fuel by a crown of fifty, so you have already increased people's fuel, now of course you want to increase VAT, you will increase taxes on all citizens of the Czech Republic. A number of citizens no longer have money, and now the European Union is pushing one after another to further increase citizens' lives. Here in the Czech Republic, citizens do not have the same salaries as in Germany, they do not have the same salaries as in the most advanced countries in Western Europe, but the costs will, of course, be similar. Prices for these technologies and for these changes are basically the same, often cheaper in the West. So we are interested in how the Fialův Government is taking this proposal from the European Commission, if you block it, if you refuse to put this into practice to make the lives of citizens more expensive by this standard. That is why I want to include it in order for someone here to express clearly for the government what the Fialův Government's position on this matter, which will again touch a huge number of Czech citizens, and you will make their lives incredibly expensive again. So this is for me, please support and I hope, and I would like to appeal to the government Members to vote in favour of these proposals so that this can be discussed here in the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-000-000.u15	I also thank you for the proposals tabled. I'm logged in now, which is why I'm handing over the meeting proceedings, followed by Vice-President Dostálová, so we'll take turns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-000-000.u16	Please, Madam President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-000-000.u17	Thank you for the floor. I would like to ask for a firm inclusion of item 71, House press 241, the Civil Code, which I, together with my colleagues and colleagues, submit. These are marriages, a comparison of rights for the same sex couples, a known law as marriage for all. I would like to put this point in the block of first reading as a point that will follow point number 23, because we have a clear agreement on the solid inclusion of this block of first reading. This is the last of them, which means that it does not interfere with the agreement of the Gremia, which has been made today by all the MPs at their meetings. There can therefore be no suspicion that we would try to do so by another person on the agenda, endanger or block the discussion of the meeting. After all, I don't think we should treat the same sexual couples as the ones that we manipulate here in a certain way for that purpose. Unfortunately, that suspicion has already occurred here. That is why I think that all those who support this law to be discussed, and I am pleased that I have also seen great will for those who, for example, do not fully support the law themselves, but want it to get on the agenda, here will support this inclusion. As I'm saying, it's for a gem deal, not in the middle of it or in front of it, so it deserves it, I believe, to support all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-000-000.u18	Thank you, too. And now I'm logged in, so I'll wait for the Prime Minister to arrive, and we'll take turns managing the meeting again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-000-000.u19	The Vice-President has the floor. I appreciate the level of silence, let's hope it lasts. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-000-000.u20	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon, esteemed colleagues. I've got a point on my mind today that I've been here before, but unfortunately, the situation hasn't evolved since. I am really being approached by a large number of mayors who have a problem challenging elementary schools in an integrated regional operational programme. I'm just gonna give you a brief look at what's really going on, what's going on. The Ministry of Regional Development prepared a call for the primary schools of the so-called Integrated Regional Operational Programme. Originally, the call was to be announced on 1 October, but four days before the announcement of the call, the Ministry of Regional Development changed the conditions, namely that it substantially reduced the total amount of eligible expenditure. The mayors simply, four days before the challenge, when nothing could be done with the project documentation, the Minister postponed the call, and the call was announced again on 25 May in response to the challenge of the shadow government. November. On the basis of this call, 143 complaints were received by the Ministry of Regional Development about how the call took place. The mayors appeal to the Minister that there are indeed likely to be unequal application conditions - a dysfunctional system, a monitoring system 2021+, inequality in the case of project award of different scopes, conflict with anti-corruption measures and so on and so on. Well, if you look at the complaints, they're really hard on the mayor's lips. [[14.50 hours]] So I have to say that the system was really the way it was set up - because the system was started at 12.00, but actually the first request came up about 14 minutes or 15 minutes after the launch, which is not completely normal for this monitoring system, because if you all remember, we've already discussed it here once, that, of course, the projects, when all the criteria are known in advance... We experienced this in the last parliamentary term, when you criticized us very much for the so-called push-button, I think you'll all remember that. We were indeed the target of a very harsh criticism. However, we have taken this criticism to heart, and I must say that all the projects that were hit by the lucky trick in the React, that means that those projects were ranked in the order of minutes after the challenge was opened, so we supported them all, all of them. At the time, we had an allocation of approximately CZK 11 billion in the challenge, and there were 19 billion projects. We supported all the projects that were formally in order as a government. It is a good thing that we did this at the cost of rebinding the Integrated Regional Operational Programme, because today it turns out that there will be a problem for the Czech Republic with the implementation of the programme period 2014 to 2020. When we look at the challenge that I am currently talking about, which is already from the new programming period 2021 to 2027, I have to say that the Ministry of Regional Development has about CZK 7.4 billion available to primary schools, including individual projects of CZK 3.2 billion, for projects under the so-called Integrated Territorial Investment - you know it under the abbreviation ITI - 2.8 billion CZK, for rural development, so-called Community Rural Development, 1.4 billion. Since I have also asked many questions about the Minister about primary schools, as has been addressed, for example, that the projects that applied in the elementary school call did not just give a blank check, which means that only the managing authorities would have invited applicants to complete all applications, because the first projects, as I said, were submitted 19 minutes after the opening of the call, which in itself is that they could have been a problem with the system itself. Basically, the last project that was successful was 20 minutes later, but these projects are submitted for approximately CZK 6.3 billion. That is, in that challenge, the Minister gave 1.8 billion plus the state budget of about 300 million, which means about 2 billion. I ask you, when you yourself criticized the button - because that's all it is - why don't you allow all the projects that have been successfully submitted to the mayors to do it? We need to realise that these are investment projects that I can read here, total eligible expenditures are around CZK 50 million. That means, these aren't really projects that can wait in a drawer somewhere. The mayors need to know whether or not these projects can compete. We're at the beginning of the programming period. I say again, we too have rewarned the Integrated Regional Operational Programme for large money so that all health projects can be supported. Now it turns out that the current government hasn't learned from the mistakes. Once again, there are projects presented for CZK 6.3 billion. I am asking whether all will also be funded and whether we will finally learn from the fact that the so-called push-ups really do not reflect the quality of the projects. For example, I am very impressed by the list when I saw what projects came together, that there are projects that cities can submit under the so-called ITI. This means that they are both in individual projects and in the amount of integrated territorial investment, but this should not be the case. Integrated territorial investments are specific financial envelopes for specific cities and cities should have said their priorities, including primary schools. But how is it that these cities are still drawing on so-called individual projects where the rest of the Republic has no financial envelope? I could put those question marks here all the time. So I would like to call on the Minister again to take the lead in some way, of course, in cooperation with the Minister of Finance, either by basically having 7.4 billion in the allocation or in the entire priority axis, to guarantee that all successful projects will be funded or that they will not be afraid of that step at the beginning of the programming period. I'd be happy to hand over all the documents we had with Secretary of Finance Schillerová at the time, so that they know that the Integrated Regional Operational Programme can be rewarned. Even less is the need for fear when we're only in 2023 and that drawdown is up to 2027 plus three, that is, until 2030. Today, we face the fact that the period 2014 to 2020 will not be exhausted. Therefore, there is really no reason to worry about it, overtling about 4.3 billion really is no large amount, but it would be very helpful for all the mayors in the Czech Republic. I think it would also help our educational infrastructure, because really expanding classrooms on important things, such as language knowledge or natural science, mathematical-physical classrooms and so on and so on, are for the benefit of the education of our children. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-000-000.u21	Thank you, too. Now Minister Bartoš has signed up with priority rights, Mr Okleštěk should follow. Please, you have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-000-000.u22	Thank you for the floor. I can't get a brief response. I would not like us to get into two currents in the House's discussion, which deal with one and the same thing, because this was also the direction of the interpellation of Vice-President Klára Dostálová, but the introduction of the interpelation was somewhat longer and we did not actually manage to reach the end, where I could answer all the questions that relate both to the financing of infrastructure construction, in particular to primary schools, in those challenges 111, 112 IROP for 2021 to 2027, as well as to the nature of the solution of the system. In short, I won't be responding to those parts of system support, writing, and if 19 minutes is the standard time to upload one application. After the overhang experience, we have limited a lot of, say, unfortunate activities, such as the filing of empty applications, which the applicant then added, and others. I have also made it clear that in no other IROP program, even if these parameters have been set before, I will not allow this so-called click. Just a matter of fact. Many of the programs that the Ministry does through cohesion funds and specifically the IROP are not gestures in terms of setting draw parameters. So if the parameters from the territory are set too much, let's say, in quotation marks generously or there is no pre-filtration, for example from the Ministry of Education, then basically - and we warned about this - we are putting more projects into this mode than at the moment the money is reserved in the IROP. I would only focus briefly on about five points as we proceed. I am therefore convinced that The Ministry of Regional Development is not, in essence, a guarantee resort for the construction of school infrastructure, although many of its titles can help, whether they are IROP challenges for technical classrooms, which sometimes have a character, such as increasing the capacity of the facility, but it is a kind of cohesion programme for balancing the disparite, not an area programme for building the infrastructure of schools in municipalities and cities. Nevertheless, we are trying to increase the priority axis of the fourth programme by 5% from the allocation of 2027. It is not a staggering money that we are looking at, so far it is 204 million for the challenge number 111 for less developed regions and 114 million for the challenge 112 - transition regions. [[15.00 hours]] I think it is quite legitimate - and I voted in favour of this in the House and voted in favour of it by ministers from all sides of the coalition - really look together with the funds for resources that would help us to satisfy those projects that, by their nature, were successful and not an evaluation challenge, few calls are already being evaluated, but at the moment there is no money for them. On the contrary, it may be a little more difficult at the beginning of the period, because only at the end will we know how other titles are implemented and we will be able to move the money within the IROP. That is why it is legitimate to look for other resources that we can involve for the projects we have prepared. As the management body of the IROP, we are acting and have made a request to the Ministry of Finance for the budgeting of the state budget and what are the options to support projects beyond the allocation of the IROP, that is what Mrs Klára Dostálová was talking about. At the same time, and I think that this is also an important element, we are talking about funding the project from the Operational Programme Fair Transformation. These are projects outside the IROP allocation in the region of Moravian-Silesian, Ústecký and Karlovy Vary. There must be a revision or a revision of OPST. These are projects outside the allocation of about 1.6 billion relevant only to the challenge 111. Otherwise, the National Recovery Plan is also an interesting source and it is a fresh MŠMT initiative, primarily aimed at the capacity of schools, but it is possible to negotiate with the European Commission as well as funding to support expert classrooms in IROP projects where there is no funding in the IROP. I've noticed this, I've contacted MŠMT, and we should look this way. From the New Minister Bek was clearly told to the media that this is the way she intends to proceed. We have a group that deals with this, with the Ministry of Education. She's already dealt with each other. We aim primarily for the capacity of schools, but also for projects that solve individual classrooms for which it is primarily intended, those are intended, those programs in the IROP. The meeting took place 18. 5th and it goes on. Here and from Mrs Klára Dostálová, the total amount was expressed in those calls, where it totals 4.5 billion, 2,9 billion gives quite a large sum, but these demands exceed the possibilities of this European programme several times. I believe that we together, even with the know-how that comes from the previous period, even with Mrs Klára Dostálová's role as Minister for Regional Development, will be able to put together some option so that projects that are prepared can be financially satisfied for the benefit of not only the municipalities, as it may sound, but mainly for the benefit of the people who live in them and want to put their children in quality educational institutions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-000-000.u23	Mr Okleštěk is now registered, everyone with priority rights has already spoken. Following is Mrs Pastuchová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-000-000.u24	Thank you for the floor, Madam President, fellow Members, even a member of the government is here, so I am speaking for the budgetary determination of taxes. It is probably the fifth time I have spoken on this subject, and I have always tried to work towards supporting regional cities, because there is a budget determination, especially in the Olomouc region, in relation to Olomouc, I think it is not good. I have some experience, I think, strong enough, I've been mayor for 20 years, four years I've been chief of staff. But what you've just done, the government coalition, with the gift package, where you're reducing budget tax determinations for the regions, for the cities, that's really too much for me! I assumed that the representatives of the mayors and independents - they so say - will be mayors, that they will support their cities, municipalities, that they will try to get funds into these cities and municipalities and that they will try to support the regions, because all of these are living water for the whole economy, they simply care that businessmen, small businesses can work so that they don't stand at the offices of work and they don't beg for a beggar. But what you're doing is a disgrace. On these regions it will fall in hundreds of millions of crowns, on individual regions, on communities in millions. You have to see this! Mayors, are you hiding behind that name, or are you really mayors? Don't really play it again, do it the way it is, come on, get out and say you won't allow it! [[A round of applause for several members of the YES.]] Oh, no, not the government coalition here, she's gonna set it up, and you're gonna shrivele the back, just pull the car out of here and act like nothing's going on. I can assure you that it is happening that the municipalities are in the boil, they do not like it, the cities are completely in the boil, because they know what resources they are missing, they know that they can invest, but it is not with you. We can invest from the crisis, but not by taking money from investors. You're even using the turnover that the number stays the same - if we take the total amount of funds next year, despite reducing the percentage that stays the same. Well, only if there's higher inflation again. So please, let's not make a fool of people. Let us try to set the conditions so that we can invest in municipalities in regions, in cities, so that we can work, because they can do better there than in government. So please place a point on the budgetary determination of taxes after the government gift package in cities, municipalities and regions as the first point of today's negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-000-000.u25	Mrs Pastuchová will now speak and Mr Farhan will follow. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-000-000.u26	Thank you, Madam President. I have announced in both the press and television that every meeting on Tuesday I will place a new point - or not a new one, but a prioritization of the House press item 241, the Civil Code, a so-called marriage for all. I am very glad that President Pekarová Adamová has put this before me. Here we see how much power and priority law tastes, because she knew I'd bring it up, but I'm not gonna overreact and I'm not vain. I really picked up last week to start talking about it. It's a wonder we couldn't last week, and today, when you suggested it, I'm sure it would work. Today, I read in the press that President Rakušan, through you, is talking about wanting to discuss it, discussing it, but in September. Now I don't know if you're agreed on that deadline, if he knows you suggested it today. I'm saying I'm not gonna overreact about who's gonna propose it. I raised the subject, you included it first, I am glad and I believe that your colleagues in the coalition and my fellow Members will support the inclusion of this item. I have a different term, you gave the one that I had as a second, so that it would be this week after the first reading after point 23, but as the first alternative, I had the discussion as the third point after the Senate returns. Just so someone doesn't happen to say that I'm doing something in the press, as it was in the press, and specifically you, Madam President, on Twitter and other social networks, that I'm using it to delay Mr Dan Köppl's appeal from the Council, which you had already agreed to call him off, and that day we should have voted until midnight, but you managed to call him off earlier, so you went home rather than work, and we opened it. I had a speech prepared here, I'm not gonna say it, it's useless. I think today, because you suggested it, we'll approve. I'm glad, as I'm saying, it was my goal to pick it up, it did, and I think it's a big success that you suggested it. And I'd be happy to have your five-wheelers back it up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-000-000.u27	Madame, will I make it clear that the third point of the proposal is still in effect today?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-000-000.u28	Yes, yes, today after the backs of the Senate as the next point, that is, the third.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-000-000.u29	Yes, thank you. Otherwise, I'll ask, even if it's strange, to address through me, too, unfortunately. Mr Farhan is next registered, then followed by Mr Metnar. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-000-000.u30	Madam President, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. I would like to record a new point here today concerning the long-term lack of medicines and the incompetent procedure of the Minister of Health. The Minister of Health puts us all in uncertainty with his chaotic, confused and often unintelligible statements, which he then has to explain in order for people to understand them at all. I wonder if any of you and the citizens are still orienting in his promises. Medications were supposed to be here in December, January, March, April, mid-May, they were even supposed to be here when the sun came up, and the sun was up. There's sunshine out there, but there's still no drugs in the pharmacies and hospitals. It was not so long ago that even the Chairman of the TOP 09, Pekarová Adamová and Minister Válek explained the way around Asia and by getting drugs there for the fall period. Apart from the fact that the Minister and the President told us that we didn't actually get the drugs for people for spring and summer. I think it is very likely that the medicine from Korea will not solve the problem of drugs in the Czech Republic. I don't even think they're gonna be here in the fall. I still assume that it was meant to be the autumn period of 2023 and that it was not some subsequent years. Anyone who has ever worked in health care knows how imports are carried out and, above all, how long it takes legislatively to get medicines outside the European Union into our territory. Anyone who knows, and I believe that if he's in his right mind, he can't even make a similar promise. This, too, clearly confirms that after more than 500 days as Minister of Health, he still does not understand how legislation works and how health works. And because when someone disagrees with the Minister or with this government, he is immediately accused of spreading disinformation or being a member of a five-wheeler, let me read here one of the many letters I receive and is from a pharmacy from a doctor: "Availability of antibiotics for young children to date 29. 5. 2023. Penicillins: there is none - in syrup form there is no phenoxymethylpenicillin, amoxicillin or potentized amoxicillin; nor are they imported from Poland. Adult tablets in penicillin come up with a maximum of 10 units once a month. Adult augmentins and amoksiklavy are. But what about the infants? Cefalosporins: for children there is not one, in liquid form there is no cefuroxime, cefprozil - nothing. Non lege artis, that means, let's say, no by the book, it's halved, even a quarter of 500 milligram xorimax. Cefzil is none at all. Macrolides: there is no syrup clarithromycin, there are no 250 milligram tablets for larger children. The last Mohycan Sumamed syrup remains in two ways, but as a bacteriostatic antibiotic, it will not save us in an epidemic of sleep that is still catching up. We fight as hard as we can. We're counting, we're halfway, we're quartering..." and so on. And it ends with the sentence, "That's how we landed at 21. "of the century." I would like to say that this is how we ended up under the leadership of the five-calice and the Minister of Health Válek. And I'm just saying that excuses about the lack of medicine being just a problem all over the world are just talk at the level of excuses. If that were true, it may be difficult for our fellow citizens to go to Germany, Poland, or Austria for certain medicines. What did the Prime Minister say? The minister praises and watches it at press conferences. Therefore, Madam President, allow me to place as a new point on tomorrow's Wednesday, which I called kompetentní Information to Minister Válek in providing medicine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-000-000.u31	Yes, thank you. Mr Lubomír Metnar is following and Mr Novák will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-000-000.u32	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, I would like to put a new item on the agenda of today's meeting entitled Reiteral Declarations on the subject of the war between Russia and NATO. Citizens are turning to me and to my colleagues that the statement by the Chief of Staff is repeated in the media space that the war between Russia and NATO and the involvement of the Czech Republic is not ruled out from the outset in such a conflict - instead of making a statement about what you are doing to prevent such a conflict. These citizens are terrified of this. We would like to hear from the Minister of Defence whether he is in line with these statements, as we have once again seen a division between the Chief of Staff and the Secretary of Defence, which even the Prime Minister had to deal with. And if the Minister is in line with these statements, then whether he tells us what strategy he has, or rather not just a resort, the entire government, in order to avoid such a conflict. I would like to include this point as the first point after the fixed points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-000-000.u33	Thank you. Mr Novák is now in office, followed by Mr Nacher. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-000-000.u34	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Colleagues, colleagues, I ask for the inclusion of the Failure of the Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek and an immediate solution to the lack of medicines. The situation isn't just serious anymore, she's catastrophic. A moment ago, you also heard my colleague, who spoke on this subject. Today, your doctor can write you virtually anything for a prescription, because the drug fight will only start when you get to the pharmacy and find out they're not there. And what does the Minister do? He's making fun of us. He's sending us out for air because it's nice spring weather. If that's how Minister Válek sees the fresh air to solve everything, I can assure him he won't. People and pharmacists are responding to us today and every day, even doctors are joining us. This vague comment by the Minister will certainly not satisfy the parents who are looking for Nurofen for their young children. That's just beyond me. And among other things, I would consider an apology to be this statement. At the end of October last year, pharmacies pointed out that they lack dozens of other medicines along with simple penicillin, not all of which can be easily replaced. The insufficient goods were mainly syrups or cones for the clotting of fever in children, which gradually began to occur to pharmacies. Our desperate people started buying drugs abroad. In December, the Ministry of Health said that other states were facing the problem, and they remained calm again and actually accused people of buying more viruses and fluffs. Well, of course! Hospitals got into trouble at the end of December last year. The lack of children's drugs against fever in the form of syrups and cones forced, for example, at the Faculty Hospital at St. Anna in Brno or some private pharmacies that had the necessary raw materials, start their own production, which is the better option in quotation marks. Pharmacies throughout the country were still dealing with drug outages in mid-January, mainly penicillin and other antibiotics. Despite the promise of the Ministry of Health to secure supplies, nothing happened. And what did Minister Válek do in January? Instead of dealing with the situation, he called on people not to buy drugs and promised supplies that he didn't eventually secure. [[15.20 hours]] Although Minister Válek apologized to patients at the press conference in mid-February for not being available, he wanted to solve the problem with an amendment on medicines. In March of this year, he accuses patients of eating antibiotics and sedatives at home. How can anyone at home have these kinds of medications that are only prescription, Minister? In April there is no cure for diabetes, antibiotics are still missing, and people still don't really care about the fine weather in May. In mid-May, however, the situation still did not calm down, on the contrary. An important oncological drug has disappeared. The worst is the long-standing penicillin situation that has been lacking in the long-term. Personally, I have experience and experience with an oncological patient close to me, and I see how difficult it is to get medications that are prescribed by a doctor to run from one pharmacy to another, and believe me, it is to cry. On the other hand, I'm actually lucky they're not babies, because they're not drugs anymore. Ladies and gentlemen, it doesn't matter if Minister Válek wants or doesn't want to resign, an objective condition is the fact that it is not in his power or the power of the Ministry to deal with this, and we have seen it for a long time. It's not really the power of this government. This House must deal with this, which is why I am presenting it here. We must find real resources and provide medicines for citizens of the Czech Republic. It remains completely reasonable to stand by how many coalition Members who have a degree of MUDr before their name can stand. and are bound by the Hippokratův oath, at all to admit that this is not a major problem. It is, dear doctors. Please, fellow Members, let us wake up and begin to deal with this on this land. Please include this item as the first item in this House as a fixed item and I ask all of you in order to preserve the health of our fellow citizens as well as common sense in this House to support the inclusion of this item. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-000-000.u35	Thank you. Mr Nacher is now on the list and President Benda is the last to be logged in after Mr Nacher. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-000-000.u36	Thank you for the floor, Madam President, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, I will have a pretty simple point of information at first, and this is the Information of the Minister of Education on capacities in secondary schools. This issue has been raised by many parents from the chair in recent weeks. Probably the worst situation is in Prague, where Prague manages not only citizens from this city and from this region, because Prague is also a region, but also from the neighbouring Central Bohemia, where 35.5% of students studied in Prague last year, and this number is even higher, which, as you will see, is simply not possible for Prague to manage one and a half regions in capacity. I have been focusing on this topic for a long time and from that regional, from the regional issue and this has become a national issue, because there is no sluggishness in secondary schools, high schools are not paying for their head, and therefore it is necessary to deal with it in some way, because we now have three problems at once: strong years, students from Ukraine and these students who are from different regions than where they are going to study, which, as I say, in Prague, is doing it with Central Czech students over 35 percent, this year I would see that it will be 40, maybe 50 percent of students from Central Bohemia will study in Prague to understand each other. In other words: and next year it will be exactly the same, strong years continue, students of Ukrainian refugees will be logical here and there will be a transfer again and a study of Central Bohemia students of young people in Prague. It has its logic, because when you look at traffic accessibility, it is much easier in the direction of Central Bohemia in relation to Prague than between cities, so I am not surprised, for example, about the quality of education in Prague. So it's not a complaint against anyone from another region, but it's a complaint against the state so he doesn't close his eyes on it. This means, I would like to ask, because I already proposed it a year and a half ago at the Prague Council, now we are doing it again, we are constantly spinning in circles, and one of the resolutions is now heading to national level, that is the view of the state and its financing towards the region, in this case Prague. And the second stimulus that concerns the electronisation of the admission process, because if the electronisation of the admission procedure were, it would have been a long shot, which is not today, it's a mess, and the parents and the kids are bothering today. So I'd like to place it as an alternative today after the vomit, then firmly today at 6:00 p.m., and then as a fixed point on Friday, let's have different alternatives. I think that each one of you who has recently been approached by your parents knows that this is not an artificially created problem, but it is a real problem, and it is good to transfer it from the communal sphere in this case at a time when it takes some time, even to the national one. The item would be called Information of the Minister of Education on the capacity of secondary schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-000-000.u37	Thank you for keeping time. Now the last one registered, and this is President Benda on the agenda. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-000-000.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to withdraw one of my proposals, in order to include point 111 on Friday, Parliament's Press 165, that is, VZP. It turned out after discussions with the Health Committee that it would be really problematic for them to meet again this week, so let's leave it for a variable week. So I take back this proposal in order to allow the Health Committee to comment on this at its proper meeting next week. And then I have one proposal following the President's motion, and that is that, after those points that have been included in the Gremia, paragraph 71 is included, the amendment to the Civil Code, so I think that it is fair and fair that paragraph 83 should then be included, and I propose that, after paragraph 71, the current amendment to the Civil Code, point 83 of the Proposal by Members of Marek Výborný, Marek Benda, Vlastimil Válek, Aleš Juchelka and Aleš Dufek be included in the text of Constitutional Law amending the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, as amended by Constitutional Act No. 162/1998 Coll., and Constitutional Act No. 295/2021 Coll., House Press 276, first reading. I think it would be really good for both of us to discuss these standards at the same time. If it comes to them, I will also propose a merged debate, because they deal with each other but still the same issue of equality versus the meaning of words. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-000-000.u39	Thank you, too, even though I barely heard you, because there is a lot of noise coming back from Members. So now we will be voting on individual proposals, but before that happens, I will draw up apologies. Mr Jáč Ivan apologizes from 17 o'clock for working reasons, Mr Kolovratník Martin from 18.30 for working reasons, Tom Philipp from 17 o'clock for working reasons and from the members of the government Prime Minister Fiala from the whole day of the hearing for working reasons. Mrs Bělohlávková Romana cancels her apology, and Mrs Nina Nováková also cancels her apology. President Excellent with priority rights, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-000-000.u40	Madam President, thank you for the floor. I would like to ask, on behalf of the MP's club, for a break in the meeting until 15.35 at a meeting before the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-000-000.u41	Yes, thank you. I will now announce a break at the request of the KDU-ČSL club until 15.35. The vote on the agenda will follow, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-000-000.u42	Dear colleagues, it is 15.35 pause for the club's meeting is over. Have a good afternoon. I'm taking over the meeting. [[Noise in the hall.]] And now we're going to take a vote. I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby. I'm gonna ask you to keep your voice down. We would now vote first on proposals from the Gremium, if they are not objections, then by one vote. I'll get back on track. We therefore vote on the proposals, as they have already been read here from the Gremium. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 97, 171 Members and Members of Parliament, in favour of 166, against none. The motion was accepted. And now we would move on to the vote on the other proposals that have been read here. The first proposal is the proposal by President Benda to include points 114, 115, 116 and 117, which are voting points, relating to the Vice-President of the SAO, the GAČR, the RRTV and members of the NSA Supervisory Commission, the President proposes to include these House prints at 31. Five to 13.45. Unless... Yes, please, Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-000-000.u43	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I would like to ask you to vote on points 114, 115, 116 and 117 separately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-000-000.u44	Yes. We will therefore now vote individually on points. First, we will vote on item 114, which is the vice president of the SAO, the electoral point. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 98, 174 Members and Members of Parliament signed in for 93, versus 1. The motion was accepted. We will now vote on paragraph 115, which is an electoral point and concerns the GAČR. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 99, 174 Members and Members, in favour of 152, against none. The motion was accepted. Now, in the third order after point 115, it is proposed to include point 116, which is also an electoral point and concerns RRTV. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 100, 174 Members of Parliament signed in, for 91, against 1. The motion was accepted. And now the final vote point is point 117, which is the election of the NSA Peacekeeper Commission. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 101, 174 Members and Members voted in favour of 155, against none. The motion was accepted. So we've approved all four ballot points. We will now proceed. The next proposal is the proposal by President Schillerová, who proposes to include a new item entitled Loss of the Minister of Finance's credibility. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 102, 174 Members of Parliament signed up, for 77, versus 84. The proposal was rejected, and therefore we will not vote on solid inclusion. President Okamura proposes a new point called the Fialův Government with its consolidation package, showing arrogance of power. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 103, 174 Members and Members of Parliament signed in for 77, versus 89. The motion was denied. [[15.40 hours]] Furthermore, President Okamura proposes a new point called the Fialův Government has shown absolute unpreparedness for this year's increase in the number of pupils leaving primary school. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 104, 174 Members and Members of Parliament signed up, for 75, against 89. The motion was denied. In addition, President Okamura proposes a new point called the Fialův Government significantly aggravates the conditions for pension savings. Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 105, 174 Members and Members of Parliament signed up, for 76, against 90. The motion was denied. President Okamura also proposes a new point called the Fialův Government to make conditions worse for working citizens. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 106, 174 Members of Parliament signed up, for 76, against 89. The motion was denied. In addition, President Okamura proposes a new point called the EU will make the people of energy more expensive. Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 107, 174 Members of Parliament signed up, for 76, against 87. The motion was denied. Madam President Adamová proposes that item 71, House press 241, the Civil Code, be firmly placed in the block of first reading for block 23. Since we probably had a counter-proposal here - is that correct, Mrs Pastuchová? You proposed that paragraph 71, House Press 241, the Civil Code, be placed as a third point today, and if there was no one against it, we would vote first on your proposal and then on the proposal by President Pekarová. Don't you agree? Good, 'cause you didn't mention in your speech that you're giving it as a counterproposal. That is, if there is consent, then we will vote on the President's proposal and then, when the order comes, we will vote on your proposal, as the points have been read. So I am voting on President Pekarová's proposal to Adamová. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 108, registered 171, for 109, versus 37. The proposal has been accepted, this point has been put forward firmly. Just a moment, please. [[The President shall be silent, consulted.]] Vice-President Klára Dostálová proposes a new point called IROP, a call for elementary schools - a clicker. Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 109, 173 Members of Parliament signed up, for 77, versus 78. The motion was denied. Mr Okleštěk proposes a new item entitled Budgetary determination of taxes after the government package for municipalities. Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 110, 175 Members and Members signed in, for 77, against 81. The motion was denied. Mrs Pastuchová proposed to move item 71, House press 241, the Civil Code, as a third point today, but since we have agreed to include this point, your proposal is unvoted. [[15.50 hours]] Mr Farhan proposes to include a new point in the Incompetence of the Minister of Health, War, in securing the cure. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 111, 175 Members and Members signed in for 79, versus 85. The motion was denied. Mr Metnar is proposing a new item entitled 'Repeats' on the subject of the war between Russia and NATO. Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 112, 175 Members of Parliament signed up, for 77, versus 86. The motion was denied. Mr Novák proposes a new item entitled Failure of the Minister of Health War and the immediate solution to drug shortages. Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 113, 175 Members and Members signed in for 77, versus 87. The motion was denied. Mr Nacher proposes a new item entitled Information of the Minister of Education on capacity in secondary schools. Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 114, 175 Members of Parliament signed in, for 79, against 48. The motion was denied. President Benda proposes that item 83, House Press 276, which is a constitutional law for the amendment of the Constitution to be put forward, be included after paragraph 71, respectively, if firmly placed. Is that okay, Mr. Chairman? Yes. Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 115, registered 175, for 117, versus 15. The motion was accepted. So we have dealt with all the proposals for adjusting the programme. I have a statement here: Minister Baxa apologized from 3:30 p.m., but he is present, so he only moves his apology from 4:00 p.m. I will read another apology: Mr Havránek apologizes from 17 o'clock for work reasons. Now we'd like to proceed to point number
