ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u1	3. Government bill amending Act No. 483/1991 Coll., on Czech Television, as amended, Act No. 484/1991 Coll., on Czech Radio, as amended, and Act No. 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, as amended /German press 263/ - Second reading The proposed proposal will be presented by the Minister of Culture Martin Baxa, who has already arrived at the rapporteur's table. I ask you, colleagues, once again to lower your voice and to move your conversations to the front so that we can hear the plaintiff. Once again, I ask those who have anything to say and need to be told to move into the lobby. This concerns especially the right side of the hall. Colleagues and colleagues, I ask you to keep your conversations down or move to the lobby! Thank you. And now I will ask the plaintiff, Minister Baxa, to present this press. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u2	Thank you for the floor. Good morning, Madam President, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, allow me to introduce a second reading of the draft amendment to the Czech Television Act, on Czech Radio and also on the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. This is a proposal which has not only been presented in detail, but I would also say under a very detailed debate at first reading, which, on the one hand, fills in the government's programming declarations, but - and I want to stress - is of general importance in addition to this dimension, thus strengthening the resilience of public media in our country, it contains a change in the system of choice of media councils, when the government proposes that the Senate be involved in the election of media councils, and also that the possibility of calling off media councils as a whole, i.e. the abolition of the so-called collective appeal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u3	Minister, I'm sorry. I'm gonna interrupt you one more time, and I'm gonna ask my coworkers and colleagues to keep their voices down. You may proceed, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u4	In addition to these things, it also contains a number of technical issues, but I think that it will, or has been, and will be, the subject of another debate on the electoral committee. I would like to mention, fellow Members, that, say, from the debate at first reading at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies, which was said to be very rich and varied and has a more general framework, so I really appreciate the detailed expert discussion that took place on the electoral committee. Several amendments have been tabled. Some of my ministry has already agreed with me. I would like to make it clear that, in addition to this so-called small amendment, work is currently under way on the so-called big amendment to media laws in which we want to address the management of the public media, the question of a response to technological progress and other issues. So I just want to say that we are dealing with the issue of public media in detail. Then I also have one technical matter to mention. As it develops at the time of the debate at the House of Deputies, it has become obsolete in the proposal for that effectiveness, so in the general and detailed debate I will then submit a proposal to amend the effectiveness of this law. So much for my introduction. Of course, I am ready to respond to all the suggestions that will appear at second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u5	We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the electoral committee as a committee of guarantee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House prints 263/1 and 2. I now ask that the rapporteur of the electoral committee, Mr Martin Kolovratník, take the floor, inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and justify any amendments. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u6	Good morning, Madam President, thank you for the floor. For the election committee, I am very briefly stating the events that took place there. As was said, the committee addressed him and discussed him in the phase between first and second reading or before second reading on the final day of 8. 12th, then 9th. 12. a resolution has been issued, which you will find in the House system under number 263/2, and in this resolution the committee has reflected amendments as I do not want to say by custom, but as is common, on which the committee has therefore been agreed. [[9.10 hours]] Members have proposed ten individual amendments to the committee individually. Finally, four were withdrawn and those on which the majority agreement of the committee and the petitioner, i.e. the Ministry of Culture, was accepted. As I said, they are now the so-called committees before second reading and are adopted in resolution 263/2. At the moment, at the beginning of this second reading debate, I note that, in the system, four more individual amendments are proposed by Members individually for second reading, which - as rapporteur I presume - will be defended and discussed by the authors themselves in a little while. Thank you for your attention in the opening words.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u7	Thank you. Before I open the general debate, one more apology. Petr Vrána apologizes for the whole day for working reasons. One more announcement. Mr Michal Kučera will vote with replacement card number 33. I am now opening a general debate to which President Okamura and President Radim Fiala have signed up with priority rights. I don't see President Okamura, so I'm going to ask President Fiala to speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u8	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to give an opinion on this bill for the SPD movement. Rocket-growing inflation has already reached almost 20 percent year on year. Prices of basic life needs are rising at a much faster pace between 50 and 100 percent year on year, especially with regard to energy, food and fuel prices. Housing costs are increasing rapidly. The mortgage loans for the purchase of real estate are available only for persons with income above CZK 80,000 per month. The number of executions, including the execution of seniors, is growing. More and more working people are sinking below the poverty line. There are absolutely no basic medications in pharmacies, especially medicines for children. Hundreds of thousands of citizens don't have their dentist. Now I have expected to hear from the President that I should stick to the subject, but I am sticking to the subject because it is evident that the situation is worse every week from week to week, and we are starting to discuss in the Chamber of Deputies instead of these basic things and this service to our citizens of the Czech Republic the Czech Television Act. What exactly is the government doing in this situation? Journalists ask us why we have been reading our bills here for some time to reduce prices of agricultural commodities, food, fuel, housing, and other things. Well, because we feel like it's a problem, and people are telling us that it's a problem and that we're supposed to do something about it. But here in the House, the government's recipe for all these things and the government's priority, which the five-police government is trying to pre-classify here in the House and push through the legislative process as quickly as possible, is the amendment to the Czech Television and Czech Radio Act. This amendment to the law changes the rules of the game for the choice of councils supervising the activities of these media public services. You ask why - why it is so important to change the law on Czech Television and Czech Radio at a time when we are worried about what I have listed here, and people complain that life in the Czech Republic is getting worse and worse for them. If there is anything to say about the priorities and nature of this government, then it is this zero empathy to citizens' problems and an absolute attempt to dominate public space from government to public service media. Because the government is not very interested in citizens, the depreciation of their savings, the inaccessibility of housing, the economic problems of the country, the rising debt of the state and similar details, comes with super important and super urgent - of course all in quotes - a proposal for a total override of the rules of choice in media councils. Yes, it is indeed an urgent priority for the government and the government coalition. There is a more Markant decline in public confidence, at least two, but rather three government parties would no longer be able to reach the House in the event of further elections, and the prognosis of development is not good for them, on the contrary. So what they have left to do is try to quickly dominate public media, whose public confidence is falling steeply, by the way, not to mention serious problems in the newsroom and publicity, where senior editors file complaints against each other and do not spare serious accusations. The fact that five coalitions control the news and publicity of public media is its last weapon in political struggle and the last theoretical hope that they will not experience a well-deserved beating in the next House elections. That is why they try to insure and extend this advantage for years to come, even at the cost of changing the rules of the game in its course and finding itself several times for their short but extremely damaging history for our country at the edge of the constitution. In this context, we must recall recent excesses, the public election of the Czech Television Council here in the House. In this way, the leaders of government parties have pushed unprecedentedly against their own MPs to elect pre-selected loyal government councillors. They trampled on one of the fundamental pillars of free and democratic regimes, the freedom of choice, which is fully guaranteed only if it takes place in a secret way, where each elector - and it is indifferent whether he is a citizen or a Member - votes secretly in accordance with his conscience without any external pressure, simply alone and behind the cloth. By the way, the government is planning the same thing in large numbers for elections to the House and for the election of the President of the Republic by pushing through an amendment to electoral legislation, which would introduce into the Czech rule of law a so-called correspondence vote that makes it impossible for the secrecy and freedom of choice, and, moreover, gives enormous scope for all kinds of electoral fraud and manipulation and undermines elections as such and citizens' confidence in their results. But let's get back to the election that took place here in the House. Perhaps if the councilmen were elected by a secret choice and all the government MPs cast a vote in this secret election to the right, right councillors, this amendment would not even be on the table. But even the five-wheelers did not want to vote for these councilmen and would not have been elected, it must have been the choice of acclamations, which means that hands were raised here. The five-calice thus understood that during this parliamentary term in the House during the next four years there was no chance of electing another loyal councillor to the Councils of Czech Television and Czech Radio. That is why we are discussing this choice of new advice for Czech Television and Czech Radio in the legislative process. So what's going to change there, what's the main thing that's going to change? The most important thing is that part of the councillors of Czech Television and Czech Radio will vote for the Senate. Yes, there will be no such secret choice, there will be nothing, because there is no opposition in the Senate yet, and the Senate is certain of any senator choice, so all the trouble in the quotation marks that the five-calice here went through during the election of the councillors will no longer take place. First of all. Secondly, this amendment increases the number of aldermen from fifteen to eighteen. This means that they will choose their majority in the Czech Television and Czech Radio Council immediately after this bill has been approved. So they do not want to wait for some councilmen to finish their mandate and when they leave and choose new ones, but they will immediately pick up from fifteen to eighteen to make sure that they have a majority in this council. That means, that's the second thing that's part of this novel. [[9.20 hours]] In my opinion, the worst part of this bill's amendment is that these councillors will only be able to design non-profit organizations that are over ten years old, that is, the real, tested, but not-for-profit organizations, for example, with a political program where we don't know who's funding them. The SPD movement has suggested here several times in the past period that nonprofit organizations should have a transparent account, so that we know who finances them, who wants political influence in the Czech Republic, who wants to control political consciousness, social consciousness in the Czech Republic, but it was rejected. So they will propose to us, to Czech citizens the councillors will propose to public television and radio organizations that we don't know where they're getting their funds from and who controls them, which is an incredible paradox of the time, an incredible paradox of the time, and I don't think that's even possible. It's just anti-Czech, what the five-calice here wants to approve. This means that de facto, other countries and us through nonprofit organizations can propose councillors to public television and public radio. This is simply an incredible disaster for the Czech Republic. The submitted government proposal is an absolutely purposeful material from which, as a famous straw from shoes, the unbridled and poorly hidden desire to conquer and control the two great public media, even at the cost of trampling public rights, such as association law, which is also constitutional law and which should be universal. This right tells us that citizens can freely associate with different associations, organizations, not only political parties, and in various ways influence public life and participate in it if they comply with the constitution and laws, and they are to have absolutely equal conditions for the application of this association law. And the government here suddenly comes up with a restriction that candidates for public media councils will be able to propose only organisations, legal entities that exist for at least ten years. What's that supposed to mean? Why? Citizens and associations, such as various social charitable organizations, but also sports associations or universities, which exist for eight, nine years and have had a respectable job, are they less valuable? That's terrible. This is how government values decent and active citizens in quotes. What exactly discriminated against those organizations that have been operating here for eight, nine years? What did they do? Why do they have rights other than organizations that work here for ten or more years? I just don't know, and I don't understand. But a senator who will be in office for, say, a month and who has been voted by, for example, 5% of the elected voters in his constituency, the television and radio councilman can vote, and it's simple because the Senate doesn't have a five-calice vote, and that's why it's clear that the election will pass. That is the equality of citizens before the law in the submission of a government coalition. But let's get back to the other thing, and that's a correspondence vote. That's what we're putting down here all the time, and I have to get back to it, because we're really running into a constitution here, detracting democracy, constitutional rights, and so on. The government coalition is preparing to amend the Act on Rules of Procedure. He's preparing it because we're so lucky to be able to build it once in a while, to be able to discuss it here. After all, we all know, President Markéta Adamová says - and I say it everywhere - that the opposition should sit in the corner and shuffle its feet. But that's just not what we're gonna do, and we want to talk. There are topics that I have named here at the beginning and which write to us people and which we need to raise as opposition, that is our opposition duty. So there are just things we have to say, and it doesn't matter if it takes two minutes or five minutes or an hour. That's just the way it is. So let's get back to the motion for rules of procedure. So it is likely that priority rights will be greatly reduced, very shortened, that the possibility of speaking to ordinary, ordinary Members who do not have priority rights will be greatly reduced. That means all of these things are going to get shorter. And of course, what is very important will be reduced by the possibility of lecturing new programming points. So if you want to justify them properly, you won't have a chance, because it's going to get shorter. Do you know why the five-calice is preparing a proposal for an amendment to the Rules of Procedure in this sense? So they can push through the correspondence vote. There is nothing else in it, there is nothing else in it, otherwise they would have allowed us to speak, but because they need a correspondence vote, which, as I said before, gives much doubt that it is right that it is even constitutional, because the choice is to be secret under the Constitution, and the correspondence vote is not secret, it must be controllable, and if it is not controllable, it has no meaning, because it can vote, who wants or may not be a citizen of the Czech Republic. So the choice is either secret or controllable. And we say that we want the elections to be fair, to be secret, to make sense to go to them. I'll alert the five-calice to one thing. If you do it with a correspondence vote, it's not about the opposition anymore, but the people in this country, if they find out they're going to vote and they don't have a chance to change things, they don't have a chance to change the government, as it was done 30 years ago, in a democratic way, so they just go to far harder and more powerful things, as it happened in America at the Trump election. And I wouldn't want that, and I hope it never happens in the Czech Republic. I just want to point out to you that if people understand that a democratic way cannot change government, they will reach out to other means, and of course there can be some kind of destruction of the democratic system, which would be a disaster. So I'm asking you to reconsider. Well, that was a little nipple to what the five-calibers are up to. We talked about the fact that a senator who's in office for a month who's only voted for 5 percent of the eligible voters in the district could vote. It is quite obvious what organizations will play in the design of members of media councils in this new government concept. These will, for example, be the ones that have been here for ten years, which means they will be those organisations that are well-tested, well-liberally democratic, long-term existing, so-called non-profit organizations with political agendas, organisations with opaque agendas and funding - that is what I have been talking about - very often with connections to various foreign influence entities. Whose interests will their nominees defend on the media councils, I ask, Minister? We can argue about this for a long time, but it is quite obvious that it will not be the interests of citizens - dealers financing the operation of Czech Television and Czech Radio. It will, of course, be political interests. And in this context, let us remember that, in the political and media background of the five-police parties, there has also been an idea for quite a long time - in the past, for example, the current senator and Prague representative for the SOLU coalition, Mrs Hana Marvanová - and for the media councils of public television and radio to vote for only selected, so-called interest organisations, not elected representatives of the people and real representatives of the public - Members in the future. Direct vote, not just nominate and design. [[9.30 hours]] So one day, we can look forward to the fact that those nonprofits who don't even have transparent accounts represent, representing who knows who, they're going to vote for the radio and television council here. They call it the German model of public media, and in future, only some, the politically correct and opinionally correct and pre-selected social non-profit organizations would have access to these councillors' elections. In short, another very careful selection, just to achieve the intended goals, to dominate the political part of public media broadcasting completely in the spirit of the slogan that the so-called TV sleeper revolutionaries, editors and associated politicians from 2000 and 2001 had had on the banners when they illegally took possession of television broadcasting and still consider it theirs. At that time they had on their battalions, among other things, the inscription Czech Television is ours. If the current government weren't hypocritical, the banner with the same inscription can spread out here in the House, in government benches, or here in the Violet government's desks. But Czech Television and Czech Radio are fully funded by all citizens of the Czech Republic, no matter what political views they currently have, so these institutions belong to them. And only they and their elected representatives in the main Czech elections, which are clearly elections to the Chamber of Deputies, which alone can give an objective picture through a proportional electoral system of the distribution of the political preferences of all citizens, have the right to control these public media and to rule them supremely, not a party of unelected political activists, politically proven or one-colored five-calice media councils. Do you feel like I do that we can have a democratic space for public media to function in the future? And I am simply standing here because we want to prevent this from happening, that we want Czech television to be all citizens of the Czech Republic and that, of course, all the currents of opinion will get there. And as I have said here, the Chamber of Deputies, the one who has voted for these media councils so far, in this bill that we are discussing here, is legally elected by a proportional electoral system, which means that all opinional political currents, which have more than 5% of voters, will reach the Chamber of Deputies. The drafters of this amendment argue in a completely inaccurate and very misleading way mainly that only Parliament as a whole, i.e. both of its chambers together, is supposed to be the true representative of the public. Of course, the explanatory memorandum to this amendment deals with why it is important to move part of the election to the Senate and to justify the need to move part of the election to the Senate. But they forget to add that the level of representativeness of both our parliamentary chambers is completely different, or that the real representative of the public and its political views, as I have explained here - because it is elected by a proportional electoral system - is the Chamber of Deputies, for this simple reason, that it is elected by a proportional electoral system, which is the only type of electoral system that produces so-called representative representation, that is, a system that ensures the representation of all relevant political and opinional social currents in the respective elected corps. Of course, I have a few pages here about how the Senate is elected, why we shouldn't let the Senate vote on these things, who, how the senators are elected, what percentage they have in the second round, how many percent of citizens walk, or rather not go to the second round of senatorial elections. But I, I'm not gonna recite it here because I think we all know how the Senate works, and there's no need. I just want to point out to the five coalitions that the Senate, as it has been mostly occupied in the past, has been occupied by the senators of social democracy, maybe you remember it, it is not that long ago, at this time the majority is occupied by the coalition of the association and the mayor, so in ten years it can simply be occupied by completely different political parties, and that, of course, will mean that someone else will have an effect on the influence of these media councils. But I understand five-calice, it's about now, right now and now we need - every day good, every month good, every year good - we need to extend our political influence in these organizations for as long as possible. In the explanatory memorandum to the bill, the Government states, among other things: "The principle of the proposed legislation is to achieve the involvement of the two chambers of Parliament in the election and removal of members of public media councils, whose members are elected by different systems and thus represent a comprehensive representation of the citizens of the Czech Republic in their entirety." Again, this is an expression of total ignorance of fundamental political concepts. Government statements give the impression that there are two separate groups of citizens, one of whom elects only the Chamber of Deputies, and the other elects only the Senate, and thus does not yet have the right and representative influence on the choice of media councils. But it's a complete escape from reality. They can vote for both the House and the Senate, and they also vote for one and the same citizens, those who have the right to vote, and that is about eight and a half million Čech. In the long term, much more of them participate in the elections to the Chamber of Deputies, which is thus thanks to this and thanks to the proportional electoral system, as I have demonstrated and justified, a clear, clear and strong representative of the public and all the relevant political views and currents represented therein, and therefore it is enough to elect the members of the Boards of Public Media of the House. Admitting this right to the Senate, it is not about completing the complexity of representation of citizens, as the government claims, but about weakening this representation and the principle of justice, because The Senate is elected by a very small part of the citizens who also vote in the Chamber of Deputies and will therefore make mediated decisions about the inclusion of media councils twice, in addition distorted because of the described deformation effects of the two majority systems. Therefore, the authors of the bill confuse both the Members and the public, they do not know the basic terms and terms or interpret their meaning contrary to the facts. This should already be a sufficient reason to wipe this legislative but factual pasquila off the table. The SPD stands unilaterally on the part of citizens' rights and will always stand hard against the usurpation and the theft of public media once, plus a very temporary government, and I believe that a very temporary government guarantee. Therefore, allow me to go back a few days to how public television organized the presidential debate, and I will not appoint any candidates at all to say that this is a matter of election, but I mind the organisation of this pre-president debate. The SPD movement fundamentally protests the method of organising the presidential debate, which took place on 8 January 2023 from 20 pm on programmes of public television. The whole two-hour discussion programme was not balanced and a large part of the programme was designed so that only two candidates with the highest voting preferences were given priority in their responses. The selection of these candidates was based on the election survey of Kantar TNS for Czech Television. We therefore consider the way this debate is conducted to be an illegal act in order to damage all other candidates. [[9.40 hours]] I am not speaking here for the candidate nominated by the SPD, but for all of them, because we feel that the democratic space that all the other candidates have had in this debate is really decreasing, or rather not. They did not have the same scope to express their programming priorities on the basis of questions asked by the moderator to only two candidates. In this case, we believe that public television did not proceed objectively, balanced and impartially and in accordance with the Act on the Operation of Radio and Television and the Czech Television Code and, on the contrary, preferred only two candidates at its discretion, at the expense of others. That is why we are preparing legal action, filing a complaint against the Radio and Television Council - and here we are: when it is controlled by five-wheelers, the board will, of course, throw it off the table, so that is what this is about, nothing else - for breaking the law by public television in order to influence the results of the presidential elections in favour of their preferred candidates. We are taking these legal steps for the sake of the future - we know that we will not bring it back, but we must look back, we must have some elbows - in order to avoid escalating in the future the above described and, in our view, the illegal conduct of the public institution, which Czech Television is. I am also addressing other candidates who were part of this debate, the presidential debate of Czech Television, to file a complaint as well, because in the future it may happen to us that, according to some survey by Czech Television, we will be selected by the President. Now, I have the last thing I want to say here today, and that is that, of course, because I am all that I have justified here today and said, so the SPD will vote against this amendment. I would also like to propose here, Madam President, a motion for rejection at the third reading of this amendment, so that we can be sure that the motion for rejection has been made. Do you still want me to do this in a detailed debate, repeat it again, and sign up for it?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u9	Yes, you should do so.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u10	Okay, I'm gonna make a motion for rejection in a detailed debate. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u11	I can now see that President Tomio Okamura, who has an application with priority rights, is still not present. But there are other entries, so now Mr Kolovratník will appear and Mr Juchelka will follow, who are duly registered. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u12	Hello again from me. Thank you for the floor, Madam President. So now, on this point or on this point, I will speak not as rapporteur, but as part of a general debate. At the beginning of my speech, I will follow up on the previous speaker, Mr Radim Fiala, and I want to be critical of the government coalition primarily in terms of the background and the events and priorities that we are discussing here in the House in relation to this very law. It's like a red line - you'll say why we repeat it again when we said it on the media committee, or election committee, and when we said it at the first reading here in plenary, but we just have to repeat it so that citizens of the Czech Republic can hear it. Again, in the context of this present law, from our point of view, unimportant and irrelevant in terms of time, in terms of whether it will happen today, tomorrow, in a week or, say, in two, in three months, I am returning here again to the events in the House, to yesterday's events. You have all seen what the priorities of the opposition, what the priorities of the YES movement have been defined, what we consider essential for this House to discuss, whether it be energy, whether it be social problems, the incredible personal problems of people in the health sector, the state budget, which, as my colleague, President of our club Alena Schillerová, described yesterday beautifully, is simply not ready, is not ready and needs to be addressed, because it is close to solving these issues with huge problems and huge arguments and discussions here in the House. Yet the government coalition still insists that - when it did not happen yesterday - the first point today is simply a change in the number of members of individual media councils. And try answering your own questions and asking your constituents who gave you confidence over a year ago if this is the thing we need to deal with. We believe that we really do not need to deal with this today. I also base this argument on the fact that, to some extent, we are with you, respectively, with the petitioner of this law, with Minister Martin Baxa, in agreement, in the sense that the government coalition has put an amendment to its programming declaration, saying: We will prepare a big amendment, we will pursue it. And I can also say, on behalf of the President of the media committee, Aleš Juchelka, that yesterday we had some opening, dating or initial negotiations with the representative, with the Deputy Minister of the Ministry of Culture, and it was announced that opposition representatives would be invited to discuss this big amendment - as we did in relation to you during the last parliamentary term, whether it was an amendment to the Line Act, which works very well, there is no dispute over it, or whether it was an amendment to the Construction Act, which, although now changes the government coalition, but on which we also tried to find at least some kind of basal agreement and which we patiently addressed only between the first and third readings here in the House for more than half a year. I repeat what I said at first reading: even such a thing as a change or some modification of the system of nominations into media councils and the ratio of individual chambers, we do not have to deal with now that we may be able to deal with energy, for example, from 9 a.m. to 45 a.m., or the personnel crisis at the offices of work, which is really extreme and really crazy. But I understand that you have some coalition promises between you, coalition agreements, that here between the Lesser Town Palaces, the Office of the Government and other buildings in the center of Prague are running red, reddish Mr. Senator Smoljak, who has also revealed himself by happily writing on his Facebook after first reading: Councils, media councils will finally be in our hands! So I think that's exactly what Senator Smoljak described in that sentence what he was up to and what a huge concession the ODS colleagues had to make within the five-wheeler. And I believe, despite the slightly different opinion of the Minister of Culture, they simply had to nod to the fact that this thing is going to be discussed in such a hurry that Senator Smoljak finally had it in his hands. Now, I'm going to move on to the philosophy of the law, the change, and I'm going to follow up on Radim Fiala again. You know that we, too, have sometimes been critical of the public media in the last parliamentary term, and that it would certainly not be true if I now said: Everything works perfectly, the world is ideal, we do not have to change anything. But these changes have to be reasonable, they have to be weighted on the chemical scales I'm really going to say how micrograms of individual ingredients can't be hectic and violent, and most importantly, they have to be properly calibrated. And I look at your arguments - I've already quoted Senator Smoljak, so now that I look at yesterday's tweet, Mr. Ivan Bartoš's public appearance, that's something, the Vice Prime Minister of this government. Mr Ivan Bartoš, my friends, informed us last night that the change in the election is closer and explains: "The Senate will be involved in the election and the possibility of appeal to the council as a whole by the House will be abolished. " Okay, I'm not questioning you. But another sentence by Vice Prime Minister Bartoš says: "There will be no such purposeful replacement of council members every time political representation is replaced. The councils will be more stable, more independent, which democracy needs." So I would like to ask Mr Bartoš - he is running around here somewhere - when members of the council have historically been replaced or replaced by members of all councils every time political representation has changed. My friends, I've been here in the House since 2013, 13 years earlier in the public media, sometime since 2000, 2001, after the TV crisis, and I dare say that the council members have never changed or that the councils have been exchanged purposefully after the political representation has changed. So please the pirát' piercers, since they're writing stuff like that, let them at least try to study it from the ground up. You don't understand that thing at all, pirát. [[Let's hear it for members of the YES.]] Thank you, but it really is. Mr. Bartoš here is writing about something where he's absolutely out of his mind. [[9.50 hours]] And now that I want to poke into it, this morning I found an amazing, remarkable app called OpenAI on the Internet. It's a test American software, an academic software of artificial intelligence that chats with you on any topic. On the way there I asked myself one question why to be critical of changing the election of Rad Czech Television and Czech Radio. That, my friends, American academic server wrote me a flash reply in Czech. It was, of course, the answer, let's say, artificial, general, was not specific, but I dare say it was a thousand times better than Mr Bartoš's performance, which boasts his knowledge of digitalization. [[Let's hear it for members of the YES.]] Now that we have stopped digitizing and explaining, I will only be specific to one of the amendments. Of course, we respect and know electoral mathematics here in the House. On the media electoral committee in mid-December, we tried to find a basal agreement on at least some of the amendments, and I will now introduce one of them. It is common, let us say, in this work I discussed it with Mr Lacina, who, as we have agreed, will sign up to him in a detailed debate. Colleagues, colleagues, it concerns the so-called qualified majority, i.e. some sort of insurance policy for the CEO, for the chief manager, whatever time he is. And be careful, it concerns both Czech Television and Czech Radio. The amendment is about, say, making it harder to recant so that he simply has some greater certainty if he is carrying out his job, the managerial responsibility. Of course, they are put on him after choosing the requirements of independence, impartiality, so that he can be to some extent more sure, firmer, so that the board can't just call him off. So we've been dealing with how to do this, even in the custody of a proposal we're presuming that it will be accepted, which means that the situation in the councils will change, that there will be two thirds of the House, from one third of the Senate, so that if any council, whether radio or television, for whatever reason, would come to the conclusion that it should withdraw - and I underline - any CEO at any time in the future, so that it would be the so-called qualified majority. The amendment that we have drawn up together sounds or is texted so that when I simplify it a lot, it says: the board logically decides, as in the House, for example, with its over-half majority. There are then certain special provisions for more fundamental steps. Most importantly, both in radio and television, we say in this amendment: at least two thirds of the board is needed in the event of the Director-General's appeal. We don't anticipate whether the two-thirds of the council would be just members of the House, or whether it would be a mix of the Councillors of the House or the Senate. Perhaps it is good that we, as Members, should not anticipate how, in any future council, there might be any line of opinion or shift, which means we should not put it into whether not only those sent by the House, but also those sent by the Senate, are involved in this decision in any way. In short, bottom line, we give insurance for any appeal to require two thirds of the councillors, whether on Czech Television or on Czech Radio. I'm adding a B here. We were discussing whether the insurance policy, the two-thirds, shouldn't be at the CEO's election. Finally, we did not agree on this, but it is ready - and I will not be ahead of myself or speak for my colleagues - optionally also in another amendment that I have drawn up, and it is therefore a different option, together with Committee President Aleš Juchelka. I'm sure he'll be talking about it in a little while, and we'll see how we can put together and arrange to make an argument about the two options on both the committee and the third reading of the Chamber of Deputies. So thank you for your attention and I'm going back to that again, he proposed Radim Fiala's rejection of this law. I think that our position will be consistent in this - I simply think that there is no need to deal with this at this point, that we should be dealing with other things, even though I may know what the vote will be or what the mathematics here in the House is. ., I respect that. And please, and I'm telling the representatives of the electoral coalition once again, when you're arguing about it and you're writing something about it on the networks, try to find out more about it, maybe the American academic server will help you make a better argument. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u13	With a factual point, Mr Lacina is now registered. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u14	Thanks. I will appear here today, first in the general debate, then in detail, but at the same time I also took the liberty of making a factual point. My colleague Kolovratník and I agree sometimes, sometimes we disagree again, so I have such a sport that every time he talks about Senator Smoljak and his Facebook post, where he says we're finally gonna have it in our hands, he doesn't mean five-calice, of course, but he means the Senate. And he's right about that, because the novel is headed this way. So, Martin, I'm always gonna fix you this way on this occasion, and when you say it somewhere again, you're gonna have me on your tail, and I'm always gonna fix it. So he meant the Senate, not the five-calice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u15	I ask you to address yourself through the President. There is therefore a general debate, and Mr Juchelka, who has already been prepared, will now be present, followed by Mr Hendrych. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u16	Thank you very much, Madam President. We're here to discuss the second reading of the amendment to the Czech Television Act and the Czech Radio Act. We have prepared several amendments. First, positive. Of course, I thank the Minister and the Ministry of Culture very much for adopting some amendments and opposition MEPs. What I further regret is that, in this second reading and discussion of this law, we will finally change the name of the electoral committee to the name of the Committee on Media Affairs, so that it is finally clear that the electoral committee is not concerned with elections in general, but only with elections to media councils. However, at this point, it ends with my positive, and I would somehow sum up in a few points what was happening here and why we do not want this law to be adopted, and we will definitely not vote in the third reading for its adoption. And the main reason is not that the powers of election to the Council should be divided between the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, but it is generally for other reasons. The first reason is the speed of discussion. What really weighs heavily on me is that laws are being made that are purposefully, truly purposefully, to change a course for the future, whatever it is - at this point it simply concerns the election of the CEO, which should be by the end of September. And I have to say it, even Senator Smoljak, and - through you - Mr Lacina, who conducts a change for the coalition of the government here, and who is very pushing it, so their goal is that the CEO has the right name, that the CEO be the right man or the right woman, who will simply be - I call it - and the Minister does not like it - squirm, but who will simply and simply be obedient to the government five-calice, and then through the Czech Television Council and then through the Czech Radio Council they want to find that name and need the majority of it. And this changes mainly in the small amendment to the Czech Television and Czech Radio Act, and this is a kvorum, which is supposed to vote for the CEO, namely calling him off. The important thing is that the number of councillors is increasing from fifteen to eighteen, and of course, the beautiful pseudoargument is that it should be mathematically based on the fact that it will increase to eighteen thanks to the division of the power between the Senate and the Chamber of Deputies. Unfortunately, if all these arguments were to be real and should not be odd, we might as well wait until 2024, for example, for the big amendment to the Czech Television and Czech Radio Act, which Minister Martin Baxa was talking about, and we would not even say ashes. But at this point, because it has been divided into a so-called small amendment, which aims only to change the influence of the advice on the appeal and choice of the CEO, it is a clear, purposeful amendment to keep an eye on who we will vote as CEO on Czech Television. [[10.00 hours]] Of course, the speed of discussion is important here in this case, which is why - as my honourable colleague Martin Kolovratník said, through your means - instead of dealing with the problems facing the Czech Republic, and ultimately the whole of Europe, here in the House, we have here an extraordinary meeting of the House to change the number of councillors and their influence on Czech television, and yet we still have three years to rule this five-wheeler if it doesn't fall apart, and we can open it anytime here, but we have to open it right now, right now, right before the election of the CEO of Czech Television. And we know that Czech TV, which is perhaps the most important argument, is run by a 7 billion-dollar budget. With regard to the changes to the Treaty, I have here an amendment, because you really have put a pitchfork in various amendments, as they say, because at the moment we can vote and call off the CEO by two thirds of the councilmen. This is changing here. I do not understand that this is changing, that a completely senseless qualified majority will be called off by the CEO on the councils, but by two thirds to vote. I do not understand why this is changing here, why this amendment is here, but I understand, of course, the substance of the matter, the influence and how we want to have the CEO in chess in the future. I understand, of course, where the government coalition is headed in power. But, of course, I don't understand logically why we have a different number of people to choose the CEO and a different number of people to dismiss the CEO. I am worried that what happened between Christmas holidays really gives me concern that this government coalition does not like free media. I am terribly sorry, because I appreciate a lot of Members in the government coalition, I believe that they are being democrats, but what happens gradually to the government, for example, thanks to the Government's Media Commissioner for combating misinformation to Mr Klíma, is truly, truly scandalous. This means that we will be dealing with the private media right here in the future, and I would say by staking out private media by saying what they have, what they don't have to write, we will use the non-profit sector, which we will be subsidizing 50 million crowns to tell us, just like the communists, when all the singers in the pre-records in front of the commission had to pre-record their artistic performances and control the lyrics, at the moment the private media will be just as closely under the scrutiny of the non-profit sector, which will have such an increased finger and will say: Attention, we are watching you, we are checking, we are checking what you are going to write. As well as 100 million private media subsidies. I think that this government coalition has gone completely crazy when it wants to subsidize good media, which are really great, I would say pro-government, at the expense of those who would probably write something else or have other opinions, because the opinion and disinformation has a very, very thin line between them, and I think we should invest in education, in how to search for information, how to sort it out, rather than take these censorship measures here. Unfortunately, this is how it is, and we can't somehow build democracy on totalitarian controls, unfortunately. And it has to do with that, of course, if we control private media, you miss the public media. And here the puzzle fits beautifully, because now we have a law on Czech Television and Czech Radio in the second reading, which is supposed to change only those influential and powerful things, not what troubles public media, such as funding, such as the 21st century, the redefining of the taxpayer and other things, but only the choice of advice, and of course the choice of CEOs and the entire management. And then, of course, you can figure it out to the very end. My amendment, which responds to Mr Lacina's amendment, returns the quorum to two thirds both in the case of appeals and in the case of the election of the Director-General. I would very much like the House here to support this proposal, so that it is indeed the twelve councillors who will vote for the CEO on Czech television and not ten, and just as much as it should be for Czech Radio. There, of course, the proposal is pointless for the qualified majority, and for the reason that we have, after we adopt this law on Czech Television, 18 councillors, which is an even number, so that there can always be 9:9, and we can always call off the CEO like this, of course, and it will not be possible to call him off if it is 9:9, but we have an odd number of councillors in the Czech Radio, which is 9 councillors, and there always will be, always after each vote, because of course it will always be 5:4 the tightest choice. Indeed, the logic here in this law lacks all logic mainly in the fact that the number of councillors here is even and odd argued precisely by the fact that the influence must be divided between the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, against which we have absolutely nothing, absolutely nothing, but it must not happen under these circumstances. just when only a part of the Members direct it, the others blindly trust them and vote according to how they command it, because probably, as we all know, any government coalition that is united in power just to have more than 101 votes in the Chamber of Deputies is - and I mean it slightly, pragmatically - blackmailable by the fact that perhaps some parties would have ended up in that coalition if, of course, this law had not passed here. I feel that this is also the case here and that only one senator and one MP is running this whole change here within the board of both Czech Television and Czech Radio. The reduction of the quorum for the appointment and dismissal of the Director-General inappropriately undermines the mandate of the Director-General as the sole statutory representative of the Czech Radio, for example, who is a public service medium - and this is very important - in accordance with Protocol 29 on the connection to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the so-called Amsterdam Protocol, which is directly linked to democratic, social and cultural needs and the need to maintain media pluralism. And the media pluralism is being hacked by this law at the moment. And I am not saying again that we would in any way not support this law here if it had a head and a heel, that is, the division of power between the Senate and the Chamber of Deputies, but that it is his rapid, rash discussion in the context of extraordinary meetings. For example, at the outset, we saw when the President of the Chamber of Deputies made a senseless change to the Committee President's decision, so that it could not be Martin Kolovratník, who is here at the moment, because he is the Committee's rapporteur, but to be Mr Lacina again, through you, because one priority right is, of course, great - simply and simply to watch over this hearing from A to Z. That's right now, I think everything I'd like to add to that. Then, in a detailed debate, I will sign up for my amendment, and I firmly believe that we will reject this proposal here in the third reading, we will return to it in the big amendment to the Czech Television and Czech Radio Act, for example at the end of this year, without any concern that this is, as I say, a deliberate amendment to the law, which, of course, we all - let's face it subconsciously - know, but we will, of course, hold the coalition bass. And I understand it, I really understand it, but, as I say, I don't like it, because it's not some law that - I don't know - would change some sort of marginality, but it's a really fundamental law that's supposed to change the democratic values here in this society that we've been standing on for 33 years. [[10.10 hours]] And unfortunately, I'm saying, and I'm terribly sorry, and I've been watching this all along, it's coming from this government coalition here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u17	Your performance brought up a number of factual points. First, Mr Berki, followed by Mr Babka. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u18	Thank you. Madam President, dear colleagues, I would like to make a few comments on Mr Juchelka's speech. Firstly, I would warn him that we are at a proper meeting, so his permanent reference to an emergency meeting in this case does not apply. A proper meeting is governed by a proper agenda, and a proper agenda for a government coalition is probably surprisingly given by a government statement, so I don't quite understand its amazement here. As far as the concept of another candidate for choice and appeal is concerned, but we already know this concept, for example, the Higher Education Act, where the Rector of a public university is proposed, or elected, by another number and dismissed by another number. And then I don't understand another one of his moods. If he says he doesn't mind the principle of voting between the Senate and the Chamber of Deputies, then I don't understand why he hates that it's coordinated by one person. I don't really see anything weird about that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u19	Now, Mr Babka, followed by Mr Foldyna, with a factual view. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u20	Madam President, thank you for the floor. I would like to follow up on the opening words of the Minister, and at this point in this debate, so that we may have time to prepare for this in some way, I would like to ask him what he mentioned here, that, as we already know, we have missed the date of entry into force, which was planned for 1. 1. 2023. So he mentioned that he would be recording a change in the effectiveness of this law, so I would like to ask if he could tell us what date it would be so that we could react in some way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u21	Thank you. Now, therefore, Mr Foldyna, followed by Mrs Nováková. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u22	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Have a good day, everyone. So, folks, if we're listening to it this way, as the democracy is building up here, I remembered Mr. Stanjura's statement, which said, "The Communists have left the House," that's great. So the communists left and the screws tightened like they were left behind. Or are they the new communists? Look, we already have Mr. Pojart's Security Advisor here. [[properly Pojara]] I'm sure he's got a background check on some foreign state for security. He's such a forged man. Then we have KRIT on the inside, a crisis intervention team. [[Right Crisis Information Team]] We have a censor we've named the government's misinformation agent, Mr. Klíma. We have a CTHH - Center for Terrorism and hybrid Threats. This is another institution that protects us from democracy to protect our democracy, our democracy. You remember article. IV Constitution of the Czech Republic that all power is in the hands of the Communist Party? The article isn't there, but we're slowly starting to subpoena it. We mít tek - Terrorism, extremism and cybercrime. That's great. We're preparing a correspondence vote, there's gonna be elections, there's gonna be elections, and then there's gonna be elections with a correspondence vote, that's a higher level of that. So the communists left, but you're watching the screws tighten? I already mentioned that article in the Constitution. So now we're witnessing the screws tightening so we can have a Czech TV that, of course, is treading okay at the moment, but what if we happen to... [[Your time is up.]] I'm out of time. I'm sorry. I hope it runs out on you, too. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u23	Of course you can sign up again, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Nováková, with a factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u24	Thank you for the floor. In the first sentence I will follow up on the previous speaker - it was not a factual remark at all, of course, but I do not want to be, by your means, as a previous speaker, I will be very short. I am following up on what Mr Juchelka was talking about. I assure him, first of all, that we are not bound by one Member, one Senator, and second, that both amendments - the one proposed by Mr Juchelka, and another amendment on the nuances between the choice of CEOs and the appeal in that number - both amendments have logic for me. But as Mr Juchelka, by your means, knows, I constantly stress on the Committee on Media Affairs that we neglect the personalities of those councillors. After all, those councillors are elected personalities who have their cohesion, who are integrated personalities who stand up for what they do. And I agree that if a small number of councillors elect the Director-General, then the Director-General really has to say that his mandate is not strong. But here again I assume that the councilmen will discuss each other and that they will try to find the CEO of both Czech Television and Czech Radio in a way that they can agree on. So, just because a treaty is mandatory doesn't mean that the CEO can't be elected full vote, but otherwise both... yes, thank you, both of these amendments have their logic. [[President: I beg you to keep your time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u25	I beg all of you to keep your time, please, really keep your time. Madame... Sorry. Now, Mr Juchelka, this is Mrs Peštová. And I'm asking everyone to keep the two-minute limit. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u26	Yes, yes. I'll do my best. Thank you very much, Madam President. A colleague who is no longer here... Well, hello. [[Laughs in the hall.]] By your means, the House's extraordinary meeting was at first reading, so of course we're not in the House's emergency meeting right now. But you set up an emergency meeting of the House at first reading. You've blocked this amendment all day in the middle of an energy and inflationary crisis. Ten-and-a-half hours have been said here also from your side, and we hope that it has been spoken well because it is discussed, and then there can be good things from the leaven of discussion, but this is not the case with the Czech Television and Czech Radio Act, because you are only discussing it here from this point of view. Mr Lacina and Mr Smoljak, through you, of course I insist. You will vote according to what they will say. As for the nuances and personalities of Mrs Nováková, by your means: I do not understand where the Member is going, because I do not want to have any specifics in the law of any person who is elected to the council, just because every person has the right to apply to the supervisory body of public television, the Corse when we ask him for licence fees, and it does not matter whether he is a college student or whether he has only a graduation, a teaching certificate or is without education. Everyone has the right to control public service media. And by saying that only organizations with ten years of history can nominate him, you're stepping on that right in part.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u27	Now, then, Mrs Peštová, followed by Mrs Nováková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u28	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I would also like to follow up on my previous speaker, Mr Juchelka or Mr Juchelka, and I would like to respond to Mrs Nováková. I respect her immensely, but anyway, when you're talking about the erudition of individual councilmen, why are we getting into this that we have to secretly vote for acclaim instead of here? If they're such erudite people, we recognize their erudists and deserve the secret choice. And we're making such fools of ourselves here that we have to vote for acclamation because you, as a coalition, are unable to agree on that erudition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u29	Next in line, i.e. the final factual point so far, Mrs Nováková. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u30	Thank you for the floor. I respond to both of the two factual remarks of the previous. I, as far as I know, wasn't talking about the erudition and what kind of education the councilman should have. Mr Juchelka, through you, knows very well that I am talking about the moral profile, about the person's personal integrity, and he may indeed be a so-called screwwork worker or university professor. These are supposed to be personalities and those organizations that suggest them, the duration of their duration shows some solidity, and that they should therefore guarantee that they will actually choose a person who will not be anywhere windy, there's a cloak. And that has nothing to do with the erudition. I wasn't talking about the erudition, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u31	With a factual point now, Mr Berki. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u32	Thank you. A colleague of Pešto's. Since the law doesn't provide for a method of choice, I think it's legitimate that the House simply chooses how it chooses. Whether you like a choice or not is the second thing, but please don't take the House's right to choose a choice. And to Mr Juchelek. I would like to quote the present paragraph. 2 Section 4: "The draft of candidates for board members shall be submitted to the Chamber of Deputies by organisations and associations, not individuals." So what you said isn't entirely true. It's just that at this point, we still have the organization. It's not about the individual being entitled to the representation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u33	Please address it through the President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u34	I wasn't talking to him, I was talking to the whole House, and I was just responding to his contribution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u35	Okay, but it sounded like you were talking to the MP. Now, Mrs Peštová, Mr Juchelka follows with fact. So let's ask the lady of the house first.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u36	Thank you for the floor. I am happy to respond to my previous speaker, Mr Berki. So I would quite like it if you had the statistics so that you could explain to me how it is possible that House practice has always been a secret choice, why suddenly in this five-calice process we stop being the secret choice of the secret choice, I guess that's a dirty word, and we're just starting to go through the deception to see how the eruded people are supposed to be there, the right people who are supposed to vote properly, and they're supposed to say what they're supposed to say.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u37	Mr Juchelka, followed by Mr Berki. It's all factual. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u38	Mr Berki, by your means, and I will look him in the eye as he looks at me when we talk to each other, so really, you don't listen to me at all. So, first of all, the House's emergency meeting was at first reading. Secondly, I was also talking about organizations here, but I don't want organizations being sewn up by some rule in the law that they should and shouldn't nominate. And I am very glad that I have made it clear with Mrs Nováková at this time, by your means, that nothing like this is planned for the future either. That's two. Three, staff. I think that some of the fundamental democratic values include some tradition of how we approach the way we vote, for example. Personnel is always chosen by a secret choice. For example, the chairman of the committee is chosen by a secret choice, such as the President of the Chamber of Deputies who voted for a secret choice, for example, all members of the various councils are chosen by a secret choice, and we will have it today, Mr Berek, through Madam President, in the Acts at 13.45. So the fact that you guys are out of this democratic tradition here, which is 33 years old, by changing your secret choice to acclamation choice, I really would say, we suspect that you need each other, when you've failed twice before in a secret election, to watch those voices and disobedient MPs, to make it sound like that, because that's how we're gonna watch each other, who voted, and how we're gonna vote. That's all. You know that, but you're still performing here and you don't understand what I'm saying. So I'm trying to tell you again. I say this with respect and with the fact that I respect you very much as my honored colleague, but please, let's not introduce some here I would say almost disinformation. When someone says something, you say it was different in a minute, which concerns me and my colleague Peštová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u39	Mr Berki is therefore now registered with a point of fact, followed by Mrs Balaštíková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u40	Through Madam President, Madam President, I will now speak directly to Mr Juchelek. I'd say you're not listening to me a little bit. I respect that you have a different view of some things, a different view, but sometimes from my point of view, you say it's something that's like a concept that's been written somewhere. And most of the time, I'm just trying to point out that the concept isn't entirely written, that your interpretation is really an opinion, not something written. I say again, whether you like it or not, that sometimes the choice is secret or public, you have every right to do so. I am - and now I am speaking to Mrs Peštová, through you - not talking about statistics. I was just saying that the law doesn't determine how to vote, and that it's up to the House to choose the way to vote, and we, as the electoral committee, are proposing it to you. Anyone who then votes in favour of that choice also expresses their opinion on whether the choice in this particular case can be an acclamation or to be a secret. That was all I wanted to say again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u41	Mrs Balaštíková, de facto, followed by Mr Babka. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u42	Hello, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to respond through you, Madam President, to my previous speakers. Colleagues, even from our ranks, I think you're wrong. They don't want to piss off their colleagues, they've become afraid of their own colleagues! That's why the choice is secret, because maybe some of them are already rebelling, and they don't want to vote in that secret election the way they want it to! Look at the Internet. People are already making fun of this!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u43	Mr Babka, de facto, followed by Mrs Peštová. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u44	Madam President, thank you for the floor. I, therefore, to Mr Berki, by your means, who has repeated here that yes, the choice may also be public, but what we are trying to say here is that you have failed twice in the secret election to allow the councillor to go to Czech Television last year, and that is why you have raised your hand here with a hundred and eight to vote publicly, and wonder to the world, then you have elected all the new councillors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u45	Now, then, Mr Juchelka, finally, followed by Mr Cogan. Eventually, because one of the logged out, so no offense. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u46	Thank you very much. Even to Mr Berki about the secret election and the election of the acclamation, through you. If you failed twice, then answer my question here, why did you personally vote for the election to the Czech Television Council to be an acclamation? For what reason?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u47	Mr Cogan is now reporting with the facts first, and then Mr Berki is next. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u48	I'm just gonna formally follow up on this discussion. If a colleague here said that the choice is public, I think he should read it because the basis is public choice, and only the law or the House will say if the choice is secret. So the foundation is public, and at this point, a secret choice is an exception. I'll tell you what, my colleague Berki's gonna perform here, I don't have a problem voting on everything publicly. I have no problem voting on everything publicly to tell the citizens how I am voting, that is, what I am responsible for and how I have decided and how I have taken responsibility for this decision. So maybe for me personally, I'm prepared to vote on everything publicly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u49	Mr Berki, with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u50	Through Madam President, I will answer this question. It's exactly the same to me. I have no problem with voting by acclamation in every election, and in this sense I always respect the majority opinion of the club before that choice. And I really don't have a problem taking responsibility for every choice I make here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u51	Mr Juchelka, with the facts. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u52	Thank you very much. That is, of course, great, but then here, if you are this responsible, then you could respect others who want a secret choice and maybe don't want to say it, and you can contact the public on Facebook or Twitter about who you voted for, but you don't have to drag other Members into this with those personnel you know very well that they choose a secret choice because they are very sensitive, maybe they don't want to publish, because they may have a different opinion than Mr Berki and other than Mr Cogan, through you, and they don't want to be controlled by you, Members.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u53	So we are now going back to the debate. Minister Baxa is registered with priority rights. One more announcement - Mrs Oborná votes with the replacement card number 35. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u54	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I would first like to introduce you to a very simple amendment, which I will propose as a Member on this bill. It is an amendment when this law takes effect on the 15th day following its publication, that is to say, the original date on 1 January 2023, which, of course, is no longer manageable, is replaced by this new deadline. I am only taking the liberty of responding briefly to a few points that have been raised here in the debate. I would first like to assure my fellow Member that this is a government bill. The honourable colleague, Berki, mentioned something about some coordination going on here, but there is no coordination here by any other Member or Senator. I am not thinking badly, Mr President, but simply putting it right. Senator Smoljak, of course, plays an important role in this legislation, because he was the one who was still involved in the Senate's election of media councils during the last parliamentary term, but who is following this issue, the original ideas of Senator Smoljak differ greatly from that of the Government's bill, but it is clearly necessary to say that Senator Smoljak is an important actor in this matter, but not a coordinator. It is a government bill that was prepared on the ground of my ministry, but, of course, in a lively debate with colleagues who deal with this subject within the various political parties. So it is a standard government bill approved by the government of the Czech Republic and is presented in this way to the Chamber of Deputies. And here's where the standard hearing takes place. Undoubtedly, if the House approves this bill, then the Senate will play an important role as the Senate Media Commission, chaired by Senator Smoljak, in discussing this law approved by the Chamber of Deputies, and there will certainly be many opportunities for the senators to have this debate. As regards the individual partial amendments, as has been said here, both in the form of their submission and in the general comments, I consider it the right principle that the conditions for appeals by the general directors of the public media are tightened. That gives them more protection. On the other hand, a measure of, say, or another quorum for the election of the Director-General of Public Media provides greater flexibility for a larger number of candidates. But surely then, at the meeting of the Guarantee Committee, the amendments that will be tabled here will be expressed by the Members and will take a position on them. What I consider most important at this point is, in fact, to lead a very simple controversy, but to argue a principle with what Mr Juchelka, partly Mr Kolovratník, mentioned here on the principle of this proposal. Honored colleague Mr Juchelka, and it is probably in some sense, yesterday there was talk of narativ, so in the narrative, which often uses the ANO movement, such a powerful view of dealing with matters. My colleague, Juchelka, sees in this proposal the efforts of the government coalition to dominate Czech television. It cannot deliver the Czech Radio, because the term of office of the director is definitely not about the change in 2023, so it brings here a kind of power view, which is very typical for the president of the ANO movement. We just want to control everything, we want our people everywhere, we want to control everything, from importing respirators to global affairs. Colleagues and colleagues, this bill, which I agree with, of course, philosophy, is a proposal that has been prepared by my ministry, is completely the opposite. The narrative which, Mr Juchelka, through Madam President, we bring into this debate is fundamentally different. As I said at first reading, it's a principle from a different world than yours. We have targeted obstacles to the possibility that, as a government coalition, as well as any other coalition that will be here in the Chamber of Deputies, we can influence the election of the CEOs of the public media. Each of us would like his political party to be successful in every election that is coming, but the political cycle is relentless, and as in the past, no doubt in the future the government's majority will change in both the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, and the very different government's majority will also have an impact on the legislation that is being adopted here, and this law puts a clear obstacle to this, because it extends the group of people who will participate in the elections of the general directors so that they will be representatives of both chambers of Parliament at present, those councillors will be elected for various political constellations by these chambers of Parliament, simply the obstacles compared to the current situation are much bigger - much, much bigger. And that's the basic philosophy, that's the key to the narrative of this law. We make it difficult for politicians to influence the form of media advice and their influence on public media, namely, as Mr Juchelka often mentions, the choice of directors-general of these public media. And that's right. This is one of the principles of public media, where the director, during his mandate, is to have maximum autonomy in what work he does, and if he passes a successful choice, it must be agreed on by a much more varied opinion group than it currently is. This is also related, of course, to the extension of the number of members in this case of the Czech Television Council, which is not more important than the Czech Radio - I do not want to put it this way, each public media has its role, its importance - but it manages with a much larger budget, it has a much greater scope in that sense, and therefore the Council of Czech Television is supposed to respond to that. I actually understand why Mr Juchelka, and not only himself, is talking about supporting the motion to reject this bill, which was presented here by the President of the SPD, because it is a proposal that is truly fundamentally different. You wish to maintain the current state of affairs, we, the government coalition, assume a proposal and support a proposal that makes it difficult for politicians to influence public media. [[Do we?]] In this respect, I deeply disagree with the view you have of this matter, and therefore, of course, I will say that we have to vote for this bill, I will persuade Members, and if this proposal goes through the Chamber of Deputies and senators to support it, and I will always say this argument - we are here to put ourselves in the way of influencing the election of the directors-general of both public media and the public media as such. However, as far as these matters are concerned, I do not want to say partial, but as far as the law's own material is concerned, we are prepared to lead the debate to the content of the amendments, as well as to the major amendment to media laws. The subject deserves it. My colleague Juchelka is one of the experts in this area, Mr Kolovratník also, so I am prepared to do so. But we are not prepared to retreat in a fundamental dispute, in fact, between the ANO movement and the government coalition, about the obstacles to public media activities.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u55	Thank you. Have a nice day, everyone. We have some factual points here. First is Mr Juchelka, then Mr Babka, then Mrs Adámková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u56	Thank you very much, Mr President. To the Minister. I thought it wouldn't normally sound like nothing about Andrej Babiš here, and it sounded from your mouth. Thank you so much. It's great. Antibabiš is still trying to blow up this government coalition in some way, and I understand it because it has no other argument. So at the beginning of the government's five-calice reign, this government unconstitutionally shut down several websites, thereby preventing the freedom of some citizens' words from being brought back into practice after a few months. So this is the freedom of the word of this five-calice government. We will learn between the holidays that there is also some insight into the criminal law regarding misinformation, that some pro-government media will be so censored that some nonprofits will support 50 million, that there is actually going to be a huge attack on one of the pillars of democracy, freedom of speech, and again it is the government's five-calice. The Minister himself said that Smoljakův's proposal is significantly different from that proposal. Well, yeah, because it was a total pasquil, total scraping, absolute power and influence over how the public service media should work. That is why I am glad that at least a little bit of a democratic heart has awakened here with Minister Baxa and at least here this totalitarianism has eased. And the narrative? Well, if the narrative is supposed to be as you say it is, then let's agree to shift the effectiveness of this law after the election of the CEO of Czech Television. Let's do it from 1. 1. 2024. Why don't we do it? Let us support this amendment here. Let's do it!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u57	Thank you for keeping the time exactly, and please Mr Babka. Then Mrs Věra Adámková. We're still in the factual notes regime. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u58	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm going to follow up on both the Minister and my previous speaker, Aleš Juchelka. I will therefore mention that I have already entered into a detailed debate, where we will read the amendment with the effect of this law from 1. 1. 2024, because the shadow of doubt here about the law just hangs that it's done on your part purposefully. Your proposal to announce 15 days from the day of effectiveness is too fast and too rash for us. So I am calling on this amendment to be read in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u59	Thank you. Please, Mrs Adámková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u60	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I only have one comment about the Minister, whom I very much appreciate. I mean, the department of culture or that section, even if it's called a light muse, is very difficult. It's hard work. I would like us to respect the person who runs the culture. A year is a short time, just leave there a longer time to decide. But what I believe is not worthy of the Minister of Culture is to talk about the President of the YES movement when he is not here. First of all. Secondly, you said you weren't like ANO. You really aren't. Write it in red, have it mounted and framed, because I don't know which other subject would have a president as well as we do. We all saw that nothing really happened. Minister, I want to respect you very much, please, it's pointless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u61	Thank you. In fact, Minister Baxa is registered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u62	Thanks for the word. Just a brief response to both the Professor and Mr Babka - Professor Adámková's speech, to make it clear who I am responding to. In fact, I have to put a political dimension into this debate to explain the difference in view. In fact, I have no other explanation for why this is happening. My colleague Babka here is talking about the shadow of the doubt that arises. It's probably... What's the source of the doubt? What is the source of these doubts, Mr. Babka, through the Vice-President? Well, your power view of the world. That's what we're fundamentally distinguished about. I can't explain it any other way. You see in this bill a kind of clear desire to control television, to elect your CEO. But we here, my colleague, are putting - I say this to Mr Juchelek - a proposal completely opposite, which makes it difficult for us to choose the Director General. I don't have... I'm actually looking for an explanation for your point of view here. I don't understand why, if we want to make it harder on the choice of the CEO, the influence on the public media, why you actually see the world differently. I can think of nothing more than a certain power perspective that applies to the political movement, which you are members of and for which you have been elected here. I have no other argument. I don't want to bring in something of principle - for this will certainly be an extraordinary meeting and so on, where we will meet completely fundamentally politically about the view of the direction of our country - but here I am really trying to honestly look for the sources of what the difference is between you and us in view of this thing. I just can't go into the world in which you live, where political austerity is supposed to affect public media.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u63	Thank you. We have three factual points. First Mr Juchelka, then Mr Babka and then Mr králíček will be prepared. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u64	Thank you. The Minister is running out of arguments, he's running out of factual arguments, which is why he's talking about power influences, Antibabiš and all these matters, because he just doesn't have the arguments to defend this law anymore, and I don't really blame him. So if we're talking about the power principle. This means that since 1991, when do we have a draft law on Czech Television, so far it's all been wrong? The proposal that we have here for 33 years to choose for advice, the choice of CEOs, the responsibility of all councillors was wrong, was it power? Because I think that during the previous government coalition, when the government of Andrej Babiš ruled, we did not change a comma as part of the amendment to the Czech Television and Czech Radio Act. We are still following the law that arose here after the Velvet Revolution of 1989, from the early Members of the Free Chamber of Deputies. That's why you want to grab the Czech Television and the Czech Radio in power now, which is why you're changing it so quickly. That's why I say let's make a deal on 1. 1. 2024. Why can't we make a deal like this? What's the big rush? Well, I'll answer you because you need to elect the CEO of Czech Television. Well, that's obvious, isn't it? This is an assignment for you, Minister of Culture. This is the answer, factual, normal, real, not the power, influential, like you're trying to stir things up in some other way. This is the fact. You want to control public service media, you want to control private media through a government media agent. Even if you talk a thousand times about the influence and the power that the last government just didn't have because it didn't change a word in the law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u65	Thank you. I'll ask Mr. Babka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u66	Thank you for the floor. Minister, please - and I repeat this here several times - you cannot say that you are making it difficult for the Director General to choose, that you are making it difficult for her at a time when the smart ten out of the 15 people who are on the board must now agree on one name for the CEO to be elected. I mean, you can't argue that you're making the choice difficult when you add three new councilmen -- there'll be 18 smart heads -- but you're giving away the two-thirds of the law, which means you're leaving a kvorum for the president of the ten. You can't argue that you're making that choice difficult when you're adding three new people in there, and at the same time you're removing two-thirds of the councilmen's election. That doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u67	Thank you, and another of the applicants is Mr. králíček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u68	I have to respond to the Minister. I'd like to ask him: what kind of power influence are you talking about? When I remember the last term, when the councillors always voted, both on Czech Television and on Czech Radio, your candidate was elected as a opposition, your candidates were there. What have you done to this term of office? You want to afford your own people there to control Czech TV, your government agent is handing out 150 million to related media without any key, without any control. And why, Minister, won't you answer the simple question of my colleague Juchelka? So why don't you make this law after the election of the CEO of Czech Television? Then why isn't it in the fall? Answer that. Answer us, it's not your concern, the influential one, but answer me. Let's not do this until the end of the year when the CEO is elected.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u69	Thank you, and in fact, Minister Baxa was here a moment ago - not in the end. In that case, we can move on to the next person who is duly enrolled in the debate, which is Mr Hendrych. Let me read the apologies again. Mr Roman Bělor from 12 to 13.45, Mrs Marie Jílková takes back her apology, Mrs Opltová from 10 to 11.30 for working reasons, Mr Richter, for all working days, for working reasons, Mrs Válková within 10 hours for work reasons, Minister Šalomoun from 11.30 to 14 for work reasons, and Minister Válek from 9.30 for working reasons. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u70	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I am here to represent the absentee and for health reasons excused by Mr Lubomír Brož, who has put an amendment in the system under number 1746, and I will already address this proposal in this general debate. I apologize in advance for reading, which I therefore hate to do and it is basically the first time, I prefer to speak from notes or from my head, but by being here on the stand, I will allow myself to read a brief explanation: Annex V.Part 2.41 (d) The Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 1 the word 'one third of the members are elected every two years' is deleted. In the incriminating section 4 paragraph 1 of the Czech Television Act and the Czech Radio Act is enshrined in the term of office of the council, which in both cases is six years. At the same time, it is stipulated that one third of the members are elected every two years, but in practice this rule is not respected because the term of office of the members of the Board ends at different moments. This is due to the various moments of taking up office and their termination, i.e. the removal of a member, the resignation of a member and so on, before the specified six years have elapsed. The choice of new members also does not copy the six- or two-year cycles. It follows from the fact that, ultimately, members are elected as necessary at very different moments and their term of office then ends by analogy, not at two-year intervals, but at different dates. The law of the original objective pursued, i.e. that the members of the board be gradually changed, or that they change gradually, thereby maintaining a certain degree of continuity, is already effectively achieved when the term of office of the members of the board does not end at one time. If I sum up the proposed proposal, the amendment aims at leaving only a six-year term of office. According to the information I have, the Legislative Council of the Government, which also considers this provision to be obsolete and perhaps a little confusing in view of the interpretation of other provisions and so on, is in fact positive. So in that sense, I think there is support. I will formally sign up for this amendment in a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u71	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, and we have two factual points here. Mr králíček is the first Member to prepare Mr Juchelka. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u72	I just want to respond briefly to the Minister. Minister, the fact that you haven't answered any of our questions is a clear answer to what your power interests are.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u73	I would like another one of the entries with a factual remark - Mr Juchelka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u74	Maybe I'll answer Mr. Králíček, through you. Let us not say at this time that this is a law on Czech Television and Czech Radio, but let us start by saying that it is a law on the election of the CEO of Czech Television. That'll be more true.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u75	With a factual remark, none of the Members are making any further comments, so I would like another duly signed up, and this is Mr Lacina. We are still in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u76	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Have a good morning, everyone. I hope it's still in the morning, after the shrinking of factual remarks. I will allow myself to take this issue a little bit more wide, and I would like to talk about the quality of parliamentary democracy in our country and perhaps in some other countries, because you know that the quality depends very significantly on whether the power of legislative, executive and judicial is sufficiently separate, and, of course, whether free, independent media, whether public services or private media, is also very important. The fact that we have the independent power of court, I hope that our ANO colleagues appreciated this week, because of course it concerns one of their colleagues, whose name I will not say, because he is not here. He's practically never here, so that name is practically unspeakable. But I don't want to run away from the core. We follow developments in Poland and Hungary at the same time, these are countries that are both territorially and very close to us because they went to democracy between 1989 and 1990, and you can see that, for example, in Poland, very hard intervention was given too much justice, in Hungary, I even think we are in a situation where the slide between high-quality parliamentary democracy and authoritarian regime can sometimes be very short, also because Hungary does not have a high-quality and robust system of democratic institutions built by our predecessors in the early 1990s. Thank zaplaťpánbůh that colleagues who once wrote the Constitution of the Czech Republic wrote a very good text, which has really few minor flaws, and that they built into it such important institutions as the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic as an important insurance policy for our democratic development, the Constitutional Court, which in previous years profiled itself as a very confident and important institution, the Supreme Administrative Court. And in this system, although not described or incorporated in the Constitution, it also includes important public service media - Czech Radio and Czech Television, which have been operating in the dual broadcasting system since the early 1990s, and I think that at this point they are institutions of high quality, very confident and high-quality performance. The standard with which the Ministry of Culture comes, and as a translator, Minister Baxa - it is not really me or Senator Smoljak, although we are of course quite interested in this subject - so, in my opinion, it has one very important, perhaps a key point, and that is that it cancels the appeal of the entire Czech Television Council or the entire Czech Radio Council following the double approval of the annual reports, or one annual report which may not be approved twice. This is the basis for saying that the current government majority cannot come, do not approve twice the annual report, recall the entire Czech Radio Council or Czech Television, to choose, whether in public or in a secret choice, the appropriate number of councillors who within six months are able to smash management, whether Czech Television or Czech Radio. And by this logic, of course, we followed this logic when preparing or discussing with Minister Baxa, his ministry, when preparing a government statement, because if we manage to approve the standard we come up with, it will mean that no Parliament will be able to vote for most of the members of the Czech Television Council or the Czech Radio during its term of office, but only a smaller part of it. [[11.00 hours]] Let me remind you that the ambition to divide Parliament or the Chamber of Deputies, to be precise, with some other institution, or to transfer it to a completely different place in general, these ambitions have been here since the mid-1990s, but since the methods have always been more, this has never changed since the 1990s. She was always talked about in flames, dozens of seminars took place, and in the end, the ambition always crashed. I would remind my colleagues from the club YES that they too, some of them, were signed under an attempt to change this system in the parliamentary period 2013 to 2017. I hope I remember well that it was signed under the proposal, Mr Martin Komárek, then, but also the current Member of the Chamber of Deputies, Mrs Válková, who came up with the so-called Bavarian model at the time, means that the listed institutions supply members of the media councils. Even this experiment crashed because there was no consensus on what the listed institutions should be. I would like to remind you that the Senate also came with its idea in the period for us, for this House, the previous one. That's something we're working on calling Smoljakův's novel. She is not quite Smoljakův, but David Smoljak was the one who presented her most often to the public and where she was really ambitious for the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate to share the choice in ratio 1 to 1. This is indeed an autonomous amendment to the Ministry of Culture, which, in my opinion, addresses all the important things. I think that when we accept it, we will appreciate the effect in the distant future, because, of course, the next Chamber of Deputies will certainly look different, the composition of the Senate will also be different. But the fact that it divides the decision-making, or the choice, between more than one institution and that, figuratively speaking, the carp in the Chamber of Deputies unleashes their pond is something that is relatively very unique, and that is why I am very fond of this draft. I'm still looking at the notes, if I have anything substantial I'd like to mention here - yes, one last thing. At the same time, I would like to update or underline what the Minister of Culture Baxa may have already announced in his previous speech. The second absolutely necessary condition for the independence of the public service media is their sustainable financing. That is why I am very pleased that it has already started to work on a small working team that the Minister has called together and that this is also in the process, because, of course, the way the councillors are elected is only a certain part or segment of what we would like to strive for, and that is a strong, independent, confident public service media that will complement the strong institutional framework that we have in the Czech Republic. That is why we also have a dramatically higher degree of parliamentary democracy than, for example, the people in Poland and Hungary. I apologize for saying this from a higher point of view, but I felt the need to make this passage through the last thirty years of our society. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u77	Thank you. One factual point, at least one so far. Mr. Juchelka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u78	Thank you very much. I will follow the last sentence of my honourable colleague, Mr Lacina, through you. So, please, let's not change that at this point. If we have a greater degree of democracy than we do in Poland and Hungary in your own words, please do not change it, let us not do so, and let us not go their way, where through the Chamber of Deputies, Parliament, or Szej, they have tried through the law of the public service media or the public service media in some way to sever it. But let's leave it this way, if that's how you feel and feel about it, let's just move it forward and put it as part of that big novel. And let's not really get into this when you say that we have a higher proportion of democracy than in Poland and Hungary, because I think so, too, and I don't want to go the way of these two states. I was there in Poland just on Polish television, on Polish radio, I was there to see, I spoke to individual actors during the last parliamentary term, and unfortunately your government proposal will go exactly the same way as it went there, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u79	Thank you. Mr Lacina wants to respond to the facts.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u80	I will be very brief and I will also address you through the President. For me, it's really astonishing how one and the same process can be interpreted completely the other way around. We say we're going the way to strengthen, you say we're going the way to weaken. This is really interesting for me and to some extent actually incomprehensible, but we can continue this interpretation war until it is completely exhausted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u81	Thank you. There is no further factual point, so I would like to ask Mrs Maříková, as part of her contribution to the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u82	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, at a time when thanks to the five-calice government under the leadership of Petr Fiala, citizens solve existential problems, many of them wonder if they will pay for overpriced energy or food. Now I read on Prima CNN News: "We have lost our contribution to Laura's severely ill daughter, we can either drown or eat, the family is desperate. " This government, rather than addressing the existential problems of Czech citizens and Czech companies, deals with the amendment to the law to control public opinion and to delineate freedom of speech and speech. It makes it beautifully clear to citizens its power desires and what really interests her is that she has more than her interest in citizens, so she tries to control Czech Television and Czech Radio completely. Here we see what is the priority of this government. The very existence of Czech Television and Czech Radio is certainly socially essential and necessary. It serves to meet the cultural, social and social needs of society, provided that the news is balanced. The intelligence style is often biased nowadays. All we had to do was look at the election debate of the presidential candidates. What commercial televisions have allowed is one thing, but the fact that it has allowed the candidates for favorites and outsiders to split up public television is, I think, the highlight of everything. Even so, some of you are still defending it and defending it. The objective of public television is to provide objective information, at least standard behavior of editors, moderators and other employees of Czech Television and Czech Radio, their impartial and balanced approach in all possible issues of solutions in the context of human life. In the event of a change of law, the government coalition in the Czech Television Council and the Czech Radio Council will be able to place fully inclined candidates. The new director-general of Czech Television is said to be starting to talk in the galleries. [[new?]] The requirement that associations that may submit candidates exist for more than ten years is absolutely pointless. The change is that one third of the councillors on Czech Television, who will increase from 15 to 18, would vote for the senators next time. This has so far been the domain of the Chamber of Deputies. It will not be more democratic at all, the Senate does not prove to be a guarantee of democracy in the long run. If the Senate didn't exist, nothing would have happened. I mean, how many votes is a senator elected many times? The President's mandate is about 2.5 million citizens, and the Member's mandate is on average 50,000 citizens, but the senator can theoretically choose several hundred citizens. The number of members of the Radio Council will remain nine, they will be elected in proportion to six Chambers and three Senates. If this law is adopted, it will threaten the independence of the public service media. Different currents of opinion, not just one government recommended, are to be represented in the councils. If people of one permitted opinion are elected to the council, then there is no way we can talk about balance. [[11.10 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, if we allow this amendment of the law to be politicized by the public media, by true democracy and freedom of speech, not by the pseudo-democracy that is promoted by the ruling five-calices, it will turn into a non-free speech and totalitarianism, where nonprofit organizations and current political guarantees will decide who will be able to perform on Czech television and on Czech Radio and what the audience and listener will be able to hear and see without anyone asking the audience and listeners, even though they are the payers and consumers of this public service. Who else should be more entitled to comment on the composition of the Board of Czech Television and Czech Radio than they are? But no one cares about their opinion. This proposed amendment is evident that Czech Television and Czech Radio are intended to influence public opinion and not to expand their views and create space for their free opinion. This medium will be tasked only with one opinion current, one that will allow current government coalitions and non-profit organizations. Discussions of different views on public matters, which are an integral part of democracy, will disappear. If the viewer, the listener, pays the licence fees, has the right to an objective view, and not just the right one, what the current government coalition stands according to the pattern of comrades: Who is not with us is against us! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u83	Thank you, Madame. There is, in the end, one factual point from Mrs Nováková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u84	Thank you for the floor. I would like to respond to the previous Member's speech through you. There is one thing that I do not agree with at all, and that is that it shows that it does not recognise Parliament's two-chamber system. I have a different opinion, but we're entitled to that. On one point, I completely agree with her, and I believe that some media has really negatively affected the President's choice, because it has actually at some stage divided the favorites into those who have a chance and who do not. This was not a good demonstration of democracy, and also if she knew how I worked in the Committee on Media Affairs, Madame, she would know that I am constantly pointing out that complaints should be handled in the right way. It is precisely because I, too, am very, very critical in some matters that I believe that the increase in board members is positive, namely the increase in the Council members elected by the Senate. This is not a complete copy of the Chamber of Deputies. You know the senators, you know they feel different. They feel much more like they have a personal mandate. That means their self-esteem is distinctive. And that is why I believe that this amendment can also bring to the correctness of the media, and I do not think in a bad way right now, really in order for the media to carry out the service that we do, and we certainly agree, through the President, that we certainly agree, so I believe that this amendment can contribute to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u85	Thank you and we have another factual one, Mrs Berenika Peštová. Before the honourable Member arrives, I will read one apology: Mr Lukáš Vlček from 15.30 to 9am for work reasons. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u86	I would like to respond to Mrs Nováková. Maybe it's just that it's a mistake that senators think they're more than Members of Parliament, because if you look at the elections afterwards, and if you find out that such a senator gets into that Senate with some 2,000 or 3,000 votes, it's not that big of a hit parade to think what a person he is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u87	Thank you. I see another interest in a factual remark. Mrs Nováková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u88	Thank you. I, through Mr President, would like to invite a fellow Member for coffee, to be clear, we do not understand each other in one thing - when I speak of responsibility, about a person who is truly value-oriented, it is not a social evaluation or any education at all. I still feel like I look like an elitist, but I'm not at all. Through Mr President, I would like to be able to clarify this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u89	Thank you, Madame. There is no further factual fact here, so at this point I would like to ask Mr Hrnčíř, who is duly registered. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u90	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, fellow Members, allow me to briefly comment on the proposed government amendment to the Czech Television and Czech Radio Act. I think it is time for Czech TV to change from scratch, whether its funding, its reporting, its management, everything needs to be changed. However, none of the necessary adjustments in this government amendment are, unfortunately. However, what this amendment actually contains makes me quite nauseous. This is a fundamental change in the way the Czech Television, Czech Radio control councils are chosen. The government coalition wants an adjustment according to which a third of the Senate's members will vote in the future. Only the Chamber of Deputies has done so far. I would just like to remind you that the Czech Television Council is to oversee the Czech Television, and therefore it needs personalities representing as broad a part of the public as possible. The board should then be politically neutral. In direct conflict with this demand, the proposed amendment is just another step towards the complete political domination of Czech Television and Czech Radio by the ruling coalition, because while the Chamber of Deputies essentially represents the will of citizens, the Senate has no legitimacy in this. As a general rule, individual senators are elected by approximately 10 per cent of the electorate and thus represent an absolute minority of the public. Moreover, it is clear above the sun that the proposed increase in the number of members of the Czech Television Council has one goal, namely three more paid seats for loyal candidates of the government coalition, in order to ensure control of the election of the CEO of Czech Television, which will take place in the spring of this year. The proposed amendment will thus lead to a further departure from democracy towards the political dictatorship of the ruling coalition, and I cannot agree with that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u91	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. There is no real one, so another duly applied for is Mr Hrnčíř. Sorry, I didn't erase it, Mr. Zlínský, of course. I think of you, but at the same time I'm writing something else.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u92	Mr President, thank you for the floor... I mean, President, I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, I have already spoken on this subject at first reading. I've had a pretty long speech here about how public opinion is controlled, how some media manipulation is achieved. I will return to this again, use the current situation just before the presidential elections, and mention the debates on individual TVs, both on Czech Television and on Prima, as it fits the scheme that I mentioned here. I will also mention here that even in the time of the Internet and digital technologies and social networks, television as a medium is extremely important, because this medium has in its home every citizen of our Republic and uses it as a form of entertainment and relaxation, so it is the ideal way to talk to most of the population. And it is combined by the fact that some complexity, the perception of spoken words and images, affects a person far more than just a spoken word or text. [[11.20 hours]] The use of this media is particularly important in democratic societies where democratic free elections are taking place and this medium is already of great importance here, as I have mentioned here, that it can influence the most the views and ideas of a large part of the population. Based on these characteristics, I think the TV medium is currently, I would say, the first power with a decisive influence on social and political events both in our country and in the world. Of course, it is a bit weakened by the influence of the Internet and digital technologies and social networks, where ideas for the main thought narrative are still emerging controversial. I will then mention how the regulation of this media will probably develop, which still allows for some free discussion. So how does the media create public opinion? The first step is that those who influence public opinion on the basis of an analysis of the information available will create an accurate pattern of public opinion that will lead to their interests being enforced, such as the election of their president. The public opinion thus created is then distributed by all media means available to them, so that it is accepted as many people as possible, so that they think that they acted or voted not according to the intention of the public opinion makers, but according to their free decision. What kind of media manipulative media techniques do they use? So let's take a look at this through the last presidential debate on Czech TV and let's review these methods. First of all, the agenda setting, or agenda, when a thousand times repeated lie becomes the truth, was mentioned here by Mrs Maříková, who spoke before me. For example, it is this narrative: this presidential candidate is the best, because three dots. And it's better than the previous, because it's three dots. This means that, at one point, mainstream media prepares a so-called bite or bait, and repeats this information over and over again, so that the citizens contacted do not perceive negatively any other information relating to the person being pushed. Second, a method of media production of events. Media stories are deliberately created and staged to theatricalize to make the audience more impressive. The important thing is that the information provided has an interesting story and therefore the audience likes it and it doesn't matter how much it manipulates or affects the audience. Let's remember the glorious moment of silence for absent-minded politics. Third, a false trail method. The discussion is a distraction from the merit of the matter to the unrelated issue. It is therefore designed to divert attention from things you are not supposed to see or be forgotten as quickly as possible by giving viewers another subject that is catchy, easy to grasp and understanding by the general public. For example, unpleasant information regarding the supported entity is mentioned, but it has been depathelied and overlapped with its positive qualities and abilities, the opposite is being done in opponents. Method four, which is particularly interesting and effective, the method to destroy the mole. Ignoring or dehonesting the bearers of inappropriate opinions and, where appropriate, their ideas in order to become untrustworthy to the general public. This is how we saw in the debate, remember, jumping into speech, giving more time to the strained exponents, the opponents are asked questions that are hard to answer, or whatever the opponent answers, so it is always wrong and the commentator emphasizes it, the commentator emphasizes that the opponent is wrong and cannot be right. The supported entity is spared these problems. Fifth, the labeling method. Terms we all know well. These terms are: the statement in question is false, incorrect, racist, homophobic, xenophobic, populist, disinformational, pro-Russian, pro-Chinese, scaring people, spreading the alarm message, spreading disinformation - and they are attended by the bearers of inappropriate opinions. Dear colleagues, doesn't the above description of public opinion creation seem somewhat familiar to you in the mirror of the television debates of the current presidential election campaign? So far, the idea group, which is mentally related to the mainstream media, is guaranteed to prevail in the struggle of ideas and thus in the political struggle that generates the conflict of these ideas. Yes, this law is intended to limit dependence on the Parliament of the Czech Republic, because political forces are still represented here, which can erode and disrupt the only right truth, in the Senate of the Czech Republic these forces are currently marginal. There can be no doubt that the salami method, they call it step by step, with the full support of the European Union, will continue to seek total control of the media space not only television broadcasting and radio the only right one, I dare say, progressive truth and ideology not only in the area of television and radio broadcasting, as mentioned, but also in the digital media area, through the fight against disinformation, false news and hate speech. Unfortunately, this trend is also recorded by the possibility of quite simply, technically, controlling the safety of information in quotation marks by means of an artificial intelligence system. I'd like to add a few more information on the disinformers. I think the fight against misinformation is a very dangerous thing to reduce the creativity and imagination of our population. I would mention by accident several disinformers: Mikuláš Koperník, dehonested by the Church, died in oblivion. Giordano Bruno, burned by the Church for heresy, defended heliocentrism in cosmological theory about the infinity of the universe. Ignác Filip Semmelweis, a famous youth fever fighter, dehonested by his colleagues, died in a psychiatric hospital. Professor Petr Drulák has been fired from his job. Professor Roman Prymula has not yet been punished. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u93	Thank you. And please another duly registered, and this is Mr. Oldřich Černý. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u94	Thank you for the floor. Hello. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me also comment on the amendment to the laws on Czech Television and Czech Radio. I do not agree with the proposed changes in the government's five-calice. I know I'm gonna say things that have fallen here more than once, and they're gonna fall. [[11.30 hours]] I do not agree with the politicisation of public media, when a third of the members of the Czech Television Council and Czech Radio are to vote for the Senate, which has very little public confidence. Czech citizens do not trust the Senate, and in every Senate election they prove that they simply do not vote. And even in the last few, it was no different. And you want to give control over parts of these public media councils to an institution that doesn't care about the vast majority of our citizens at all? Thus, a third of the councillors, according to this bill, should be elected by those who have chosen only a very small part of the citizens. I therefore fundamentally disagree with this proposal. At the same time, I am also amazed at the government proposal to increase the number of members of the Czech Television Council from fifteen to eighteen. Why? Why? I mean, it's gonna be more unnecessary expenses and extra money. Is 15 people not enough to stand up for the work of the Czech Television Council? Do you have any new agenda that this council will be carrying out? It is obvious that you want to gain an immediate majority on the board so that you can politically influence how Czech television works so that you can control news and publicity. I am afraid the intention is to destroy the independence of public Czech television. All we needed was that public charade in the presidential debate on Czech Television, and this is a premonition that it's gonna get worse. By electing these three new members of the Czech Television Council, who, of course, will come out of the ranks of your government five-wheeler, we will be in a situation where your representatives will have a majority on this council. Well, what's one of the most important points of the board meeting this year? That's been done a few times: the choice of the new CEO. The election will take place in a few months and it is clear that with the help of these new councillors you really want to watch this option. That is why you are in such a hurry to discuss this law. We heard it wasn't like that. Well, if that's not the case, if you really don't want to influence the choice of the new CEO of Czech Television, let's slow down a bit. We can discuss, for example, the ongoing annual reports on the activities of Czech Television and the annual reports on the management of Czech Television for 2018, 2019, 2020 and 2021, as well as many necessary laws regarding the current critical situation in the Czech Republic - energy, medicines, health care, social problems. I could go on for a long time, but I won't. For citizens, these are the priorities. Let's just close the past first, deal with the present, and then talk about what we're going to do in the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u95	Thank you. We have one factual point here, Mrs Voborská. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u96	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am the rapporteur of the ČT Council's reports, so I would just like to say that in all of them it is noted that Czech Television fulfils the Czech Television Act as it should be that it creates an indicative point for all members of society, supports the coherence of society and the integration of all individuals, groups and communities, that it creates and structured programming schemes and programmes that can be adopted by the general public, that it extends the audience's choice by offering program services that commercial broadcasters normally do not provide that it is aware that individual audience groups differ from one another by cultural, artistic sensations, genres and artistic directions that favour the obligation of Czech Television to satisfy as many audience groups as possible that Czech Television respects individual and group differences in the taste of television audiences, takes into account the pluralism of viewing expectations so that various programmes, including the solution of their arrangement, satisfy various audience groups. The transmission operator is legally obliged to compile a programme composition in order to provide a balanced offer in its broadcast to all residents taking into account their age, gender or social origin. All these reports are recommended for approval, so I would like to stand up for Czech Television, which I believe meets all expectations under the Czech Television Act. And I believe that if we were to extend the board to other members, we would certainly receive further information and perhaps the basis for approving the functioning of the Czech Television Council. And I think that if we really have a problem with something, that is the financing of Czech television, and that is something that we should get to, which is also dealt with by Mr.Juchelka at his round table, and which is something that we should be dealing with primarily, because I believe that the problem of the enlargement of the Czech Television Council is not the most pressing problem that is troubling us at the moment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u97	Thank you and we have two more factual points, Mr Juchelka and Mrs Peštová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u98	Thank you very much. I will just follow up on the Vice-President of the Election Committee, who mentioned the reports on activity and management here, and I would like to call on the House's leadership and the Organizing Committee to include, as quickly as possible, the report on the activities and management of both Czech Television and Czech Radio and so on, because we owe it to these institutions here, because I believe the reports have been there since 2017. Of course, it goes to blame for the last parliamentary term, but let us blow it out as quickly as possible, because, as the Vice-President of the Election Committee said, there will probably be no conflict to pass these reports through the Chamber of Deputies here, and no matter how much we owe these institutions that they still have unapproved reports in the air about both their activities and their management. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u99	Thank you. Another of the applicants is Mrs Peštová, then Mr Lacina. We are in the regime of factual remarks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u100	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm sorry, I'd like to respond to my previous speaker. Unfortunately, because you got off for the first time, I don't remember the name, so I'm sorry again. I'm a little shocked by the superlatives that all the Czech TV like... I wasn't the one who could take it all, how beautiful it all is. And I don't believe that once you fill it up with your people, it's gonna get even pinker. So I'm saying, I'm sorry, I think I'm gonna look at the log, 'cause I didn't get it all completely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u101	Thank you. I have now lost Mr Lacina here, so I am still asking if he is interested in the facts... but with the fact he is interested in speaking out Mrs Voborská. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u102	Thank you. My name is Milada Voborská, for your information. And all I'm saying is that news and publicity are just part of the work of Czech Television. And if we have reservations about their work, about the news, about publicity, we always have a chance, as my colleague Nováková has pointed out, of complaints about the ČT Council, and if something does not suit you, it is possible to complain and deal with these complaints. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u103	Thank you and we have two responses, Mrs Peštová, and then, with Mr Kobza's actual application.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u104	Thank you for the floor. I apologized, but thank you for stressing your name. Well, I don't see the balance there. And I think that even those complaints that go to the Czech Television Council are not or do not fall on fertile fields, because the Czech Television Council does not have much competence to deal with this. So what I'm saying is, I can see the imbalance there, the board is down, because it doesn't have competence, and now you're going to add it to the people who are going to be yours, or, respectively, who are going to be erudized over those who are or aren't there - I'm saying, I'm not going to mention that choice here. In any case, I see no benefit in this, because as I see it, who gives a complaint to the Czech Television Council is still unheard of, because the board will do nothing about it anyway.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u105	Thank you. Now, Mr Kobza, with the facts. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u106	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to respond to Mrs Voborská, because of her comments on the Czech TV programme, how amazing it is, so I would just like to confirm that we have 25 children under the age of five in the settlement where I live, where no child was born before. And I understand that if you can't watch Czech TV, then what are these people supposed to do after nights? [[Laughter.]] So I see the great contribution of Czech television to the population policy of our state. [[Fun in the hall.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u107	Thank you for the informative point of fact. Since there is no other factual fact, I would like to ask Mrs Iveta Štefanová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u108	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to comment here on the amendment to the Czech Television and Czech Radio Act, which will bring about a few changes, which I would like to recapitulate here. The amendment increases the number of members of the Czech Television Council from fifteen to eighteen members, the election and removal of members of the Czech Television Council by the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, with the House electing twelve and the Senate voting six members. The Czech Radio Council will have nine new members, the Chamber of Deputies elects six, the Senate elects three members. The members of the Council shall be accountable to the Chamber of Parliament which elected them. The applicant may be proposed by legal persons who have been in place for at least 10 years at the time of submission of the proposal. Members elected by the House and newly also by the Senate should be represented in the Board's leadership. If the President is elected from members elected by the House, the Vice-President shall be elected from members elected by the Senate and vice-versa. This amendment further suggests that the law states that the Chamber of Deputies may withdraw the Council if the Board repeatedly fails to fulfil its obligations laid down by law or if the Chamber of Deputies does not approve twice in a row an annual report on the activities of Czech Television and Czech Radio or an annual report on the management of Czech Television and Czech Radio. The SPD movement has long criticized the level of management and bias of public media broadcasting. We take the view that licence fees should be abolished. Czech Television and Czech Radio should be transformed into state contribution organizations whose management should be controlled by the Supreme Audit Office. Unfortunately, the current amendment to the law on the management of public media is not addressed. Last year, Czech television managed the budget of more than 7 billion crowns, which is a significant amount, and its management is not subject to any control. By increasing the number of members of the Czech Television Council from 15 to 18 and the Czech Radio Council from six to nine, there will only be an increase in the cost of the remuneration of these new members of the Council. The government is called budgetaryly responsible, but it does exactly the opposite. The submitted amendment to this law the government is only trying to completely control Czech Television and Czech Radio and I fundamentally disagree with this amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u109	Thank you. Another duly registered member is Mr Jiří Kobza. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u110	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, hello again. Let me also say a few words about this all wrong and certainly not the democratic proposal of the government, namely the Minister of Culture Baxa of the ODS, to change the way the members of the Czech Television Council and the Czech Radio Council are elected. Given that both channels, both media have actually become propagandist channels, the question of election of board members is becoming very important, and I think that the debate that we are having here is very well-founded and necessary, however much we are going against the hundred-eighths, but I think that our views should be heard here and should also be heard publicly, so that people know how individual MPs and individual MPs are going about it. The Minister said of his proposal that amendments to the Czech Television and Czech Radio Act strengthen the independence of public media. I must confess that this struck me at the moment when the director of Czech Television admitted to directing television according to recommendations from the European Union. So where's the independence? And the Senate's involvement in the elections of media councils is said to strengthen the resilience of public media to external political pressures. Hm. End of quote. I don't think that's true. How can the already very dubious independence of public media strengthen their further brutal policies? After all, the media is no longer objective, independent, or apolitical. They inform according to clear directives, inform only about carefully selected events and do not inform about other carefully selected events, so we will not know anything about some, but about others it pushes us downhill, still some heartbreaking scenes, which we then learn about how many times they come from a completely different territory, from completely different events. But we certainly can't consider them to be proof of any independence. How could this independence also be strengthened by the fact that a significant part of their members will currently vote for a politically monochrome Senate, which, while having virtually minimal public confidence, at least according to election results, and where even a tenth of eligible voters do not vote for winning Senate candidates? So what resistance is the Minister talking about? Perhaps resistance to objectivity, to the balance of public service broadcasting, is very likely. But what we're seeing today with our own eyes is something completely different. The number of members is to be increased from the current fifteen to the eighteenth, or three more paid seats. I think that this government, after agreeing to an unlimited number of deputies and quietly creating more and more places, will enter history under the name that it is the government of the newsfighters and traders, because these are the places that are paid out of citizens' money, from taxpayers' money, and at the time of unprecedented public debt growth, I do not consider government to be the most appropriate way to do so, only because of the way it is presented in public and public, which must have a lot to do to ensure that at the end of the month its own management meets in black numbers and does not remain somewhere in debt. And the situation seems to be even more challenging. We certainly cannot consider this decision to be responsible when it takes place in a time of social and economic crisis, at a time of enormous and missile expensiveness, when a large proportion of citizens, according to current surveys, are no longer basically coming out of their monthly incomes and are already drawing on their reserves if they are not exhausted. Minister, are you aware that 35 families at the end of the month will not spare anything? [[percentage?]] This government, which declared itself to be a government of budgetary responsibility - which I would like to see - establishes new smugglers for its nominees and clients. So I would like to ask the Minister how much this increase in the number of seats will cost citizens, where, or who he will take it to, and when, in all cases, when it comes to helping people, about managing the effects of increasing and growing energy, and so on, do you argue that there is no money in the budget? This reminds me of the 70 billion the state wants to save without damaging defenses, health care, and other state bodies. So I'd really like to know where you're going to get it or, like I told you, who. Six of these 18 members are to vote for the Senate, i.e. a full third, although voting in the Senate elections in their second round is barely a sixth. Such disproportion! Moreover, they are elected by the same people who also vote in the single and relevant elections, namely the elections to the Chamber of Deputies, and it is in these elections that the full explanation shows what is actually the distribution of opinions and preferences in society. It is logical, therefore, that the media public councils are elected by the Chamber of Deputies and only by the Parliament of Deputies. In my opinion, it is pointless for the Senate and the Senate voters to grant other unwarranted privileges, and in addition to seeking further artificial competences for the Senate, so that its supporters can defend the existence of the Senate even in the future. Although the Czech Radio Council will continue to have nine members in the future, three of them will again be selected by the senators, so that radio broadcasts will be under independent political control of the five-wheelers, the only right liberal democrats and proclaimers of the only correct truth. As an older man, I've seen it here before, it's such a déjà vu. [[11.50 hours]] And there is another totally anti-democratic and possibly unconstitutional issue. The government proposes that candidates for both the councils - both television and radio - should be allowed to design for the future only organisations, institutions and associations that have existed for at least ten years. According to the explanatory report, it's supposed to disable purpose-based associations. I have this feeling that they're making fun of us, because if you think of this as a purposeful association - for example, an organization that, without a crown of public subsidies, helps socially weak seniors and disabled people and so on, exists and works hard for, say, seven or eight years, they can't design. Tell that to those people in the eyes that it is a purposeful organization so that after nine years they can design or not propose a candidate for the ČT or Czech Radio Council. There is absolutely no factual argument. Who works nine and a half years, can't? Why ten years? Why not five or eight or fifteen? In order to control the public media in this way for the next six years, you are willing to do literally anything. You can see that you literally depend on them for life. It is the political and opinional unilateralness, the imbalance of the news and the publicity of the public media that keeps you in the saddle, and the main thing that also brought you to power is not the trust of citizens, and you know it! That is why you want to use such a sneaky, undemocratic and unconstitutional selection as regards the conditions for those proposing candidates to media councils. If the government bill passes, and it is assumed that it will pass, because the answer to everything is 108, it will no longer be possible to appeal the Council of Czech Television or the Council of Czech Radio as a whole, as it has been so far. The House and apparently the newly-prone Senate will only be able to vote on the possible appeals of the individual councillors, only those chosen by the Chamber. This means that only the Senate can call off candidates elected by the Senate again, and only the House can call off candidates elected by the House. So it's basically like a Senate position where only the Senate can cancel the Senate, so only the Senate can call off its people from the Czech Television Council and Czech Radio. Amazing! Perhaps we will soon see that you propose to divide the media councils themselves into their lower and upper chambers. Furthermore, the petitioners do not assume that this amendment, if passed, would become effective only after the next elections to the House or at least after the first Senate elections after the amendment has taken effect. No! Five-caliber wants everything now. Right now! I've got two little kids, same thing in pale blue. They also want everything now, preferably yesterday. So emerging new positions in the Czech Television Council, which will occupy the Senate, as well as three other places that will be released in the Czech Television Council first to usurp a third of this Council as soon as possible. At the Czech Radio Council, the places that will come to the Chamber of Deputies and which Senate are to be determined by lot again. By the way, it's not such a bad idea for a Senate choice. Perhaps it would be worth taking into consideration that we would draw for senators. It would save a lot of money for an election. It would certainly go much cheaper than the current situation. We would save the needed tens of millions of crowns and the legitimacy of the winning senators in the first and second draw of the draw would not be much lower than now, at least as far as the mandate they have is concerned, and it would certainly be a fairer way of establishing the Senate than it is today. Its winning composition would reflect a much more realistic distribution of political sentiments in the public than it would now be, when the second round of Senate elections is mostly attended by larger groups of candidates and possibly their party colleagues. But let's get back to the point. It is evident that the five-wheelers are trying, as long as they hold the reins of power, to control the next years of broadcasting public media at the cost of trampling down all the conceivable democratic principles. He wants to place politically obedient councillors and then through them choose the obedient director of Czech Television and Czech Radio. We can assume, as has already been said, that this will again be a public acclamation option, which will take place on personnel issues, which is one of the characteristic brands of totalitarian regimes. And as I'm saying, as an older person, I feel like I've already bathed in this river. It's been here before, and it hasn't been that long from my age, as well as political control of major and most influential media. So this is the true nature and true nature of our so-called liberal democracies, which we now have in the government. In order to maintain political pluralism and free competition of ideas and political forces, we must not allow totalitarian thinking to be put into practice. It is a fact that the only media that will be apolitical, independent, objective and will follow not the instructions that the European Union and its leadership have on what they can and cannot and in what direction they must not inform, the media that respect that we have the right to information, only such media should have an application in a democratic society. But the moment we have quite extensive censorship here, when the media feeds us the information we may have, and those we must not have are consistently keeping from us, then, of course, there is some freedom of speech, opinions, the right to information and possibly democracy in the right sense of the matter. And the situation in our society will reflect the same situation that we had in the 1980s, when the media barrier, censorship and media manipulation of public opinion was at a very high level, as well as the concern that we would not happen to get any information that might be undesirable. So, after shutting down unwanted news channels on satellites, I'm assuming that there's going to be a cancellation of Internet channels as it was, there's going to be a blocking of other sources. I have seen this before in my work in Iran, when there will be a total blockade of any disproportionate, unapproved opinions and information, and we will again seek secret information that will come from objective channels in some way. Maybe the jammers that were here might start working again. And both the two councils - Czech Radio and Czech Television - will play an important role in how we will actually be able to receive the information or will not be able to receive it. So, ladies and gentlemen, I think this matter is very serious, and I think we should not rush it. The idea that was here to get back to it after the presidential election that you overruled, five-calice colleagues, had a rational basis. I think it would be fair to citizens and to us as Members to actually bring these discussions to an end, we have considered all the circumstances and all the consequences that this proposal for this government amendment will have, and we have come to some solution that will be fair, fair, democratic and will serve the whole country, and, in particular, to be able to achieve objective, impartial, apolitical, supra-party information. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u111	děkovat you, Ambassador, and President Okamura is in favour of the debate. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u112	Ladies and gentlemen, at this meeting, we are now discussing a government proposal to amend the laws on Czech Television and Czech Radio, which the government of Petr Fiala and the government coalition of ODS, TOP 09, KDU-ČSL, STAN and Pirates wants to politically dominate the bodies of these public media so that only pro-government and Brussels views are broadcast in news and publicity, only people and politicians supporting Brusel and Washington and the government coalition have continued to be invited to television, while politically persecuted and persecuted by the opposition. Instead of addressing aid to citizens and companies with astronomical expensiveness, the governmentFialův five-wheeler here spends hours and hours of time in order to politically control public media by changing the law, which, of course, pays licence fees to voters of all political parties, not just government five-wheelers, who, as we now know from surveys, believe just over 20 percent of citizens. The government coalition now wants to change the way of voting for public media councils so that a third of their members will vote for the Senate in the future, or if the law starts to apply, it will be this year, so that a third of their members will vote for the Senate, while now the Chamber of Deputies will vote for them, because the government's five-calice, Petr Fiala, has a majority in the Senate and there is no opposition. So that is why they want to make - Prime Minister Petr Fiala and the whole five-calice - this purpose change and thus exploit the licence fees of voters of all parties in the Czech Republic. This is, of course, unacceptable to the SPD movement, as the Senate has minimal support and trust of citizens and individual senators are usually elected by 10 percent of the electorate and thus represent only a total minority of the public. [[12.00 hours]] From this point of view, the only body that crediblely represents the distribution of political forces in society, the House, because unlike the Senate in the House, electoral participation is, to the extent possible, about 60 per cent or over 60 per cent. From this point of view, we in the SPD think that the members of the Czech Television Council and the Czech Radio Council should simply vote for this constitutional body, namely the House, because it represents the broadest possible spectrum of views of citizens who pay licence fees. So here we are facing a repeatedly concentrated attempt by the Fialův Five Coalition Government for full submission and political domination of Czech Television, as citizens' confidence is falling, so you simply want to insure public broadcasting to broadcast your views, so that you can actually exploit the licence fees of all citizens to such a media massage of the public, so that you can push the citizens as far as possible, that only your opinions are correct, and vice versa, to bully opposition parties' policies in those public media. After all, I can give a very specific example. I haven't been invited to question Václav Moravec in eight years. That means, not that I refused an invitation, I didn't even have anything to refuse because I wasn't invited for eight years. And even when the Czech Television Council asked about this last spring, whether Czech Television, the Czech Television's leadership, will thus prove the invitation, because they may have claimed something in the sense that it is not true or something like that, it has not been demonstrated to the Council by the Czech Television's leadership so far, because of course, it has nothing to prove because I was not really invited, so there is indeed a flagrant abuse of licence fees, because the voters of the SPD, about 10 percent of Czech Television's dealers, are voters of the SPD, but on the main discussion programme Czech Television sees the presidents of other political parties, the competitors, the presidents as the most visible faces, but the SPD does not have adequate representation there. This means, of course, that is the government's five-calice, which is why I am talking about it, and, of course, in this trend, the government coalition wants to make it even harder to silence and essentially censor the opposition party's views as much as possible, and best that the party should also be dehonested and silenced in various ways. So we simply do not agree with this because there is an exchange of views and a democratic debate among democracy, so the SPD will in no way support this proposal. Of course, there are other moments in this proposal that are purposefully designed, for example, that the government is now proposing that the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate will elect new members of the Council from candidates proposed by different, such as non-profit organizations, but with the fact that there must be at least ten years before the emergence of the SPD, before the emergence of the opinion trend that is eurosceptic, before the emergence of this current of opinion, a strong outlook in the Czech Republic, which is not only eurosceptic, but also a trend, it is the opinion stream of a huge number of citizens who have conservative views, it is the opinion stream of citizens, for example, when I bring it to today's time, who do not want war in Ukraine, they want peace, and these are all, in fact, nonprofit organizations that arose before, in essence, citizens here, many citizens have seen and understood that the European Union does not actually defend the interests of the Czech Republic, that they are not patriotic views. That is, you purposefully put it there so that the new councillors could essentially design those nonprofit organizations that fully cooperate with the structures of the traditional parties, that is, before the emergence of new movements that subsequently came to the House, and they are exactly those nonprofit organizations that fully support the policy of the government's five-wheeler. So even this purposeful change, it is necessary to point out this, because I think that democratic law would be to apply as it is in the sense that councillors can design all registered organisations, and then, of course, it is up to the Chamber of Deputies and Members to choose which of these candidates we choose here. After all, Members may be sufficiently qualified to be able to choose accordingly. So this purposefully set filter is again made so that the minimum possible representatives representing the opposition votes can even participate in this election. That's why the deadline is so long that you get it so that nonprofit organizations can only suggest it to those that arose before the SPD, but also the other opposition party, before they even got to the House. So, as I said, we do not agree with this bill, because we advocate democracy, we encourage Czech Television to represent the views of all dealers, all the currents of opinion, or the main currents of opinion, so it is also said in the Czech Television Act.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u113	Thank you. I look around the hall because I don't have anyone registered for the general debate anymore, so I look again - I don't see anybody, so I'm ending the general debate. I'll ask the final words if there's any interest? Not interested. So I'm initiating a detailed debate. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. First with priority rights, I have President Fiala here, and then I'll give the floor to the Minister. So, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u114	Thank you for the floor, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, here I officially declare my proposal, which I have made in detail and justified in the general debate, on the proposal to reject this amendment to the Czech Television Act and to the Czech Radio Act at third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u115	Thank you. I give the floor to the Minister. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u116	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I am applying here to my amendment, which concerns the amendment to the effectiveness of this bill, which is listed under number 1747 in the House system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u117	Thank you. Another one for the detailed debate is Mr Juchelka. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u118	Thank you, too. I also apply from first reading to my proposal to reject this bill. In any case, I also apply to my amendment and Mr Kolovratník under number 1748. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u119	Thank you. Another enrollment is Mr Lacina. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u120	Thank you. I also allow myself to sign up for the amendment that you will find in the system under number 1749, which is our joint amendment with Mr Martin Kolovratník, whom I thank for his cooperation and for being the one who incorporated it into that written form, and that you can find it there. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u121	Thank you, too. Another Member is Mr Hendrych. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u122	Thank you for the floor. I am applying to Amendment 1746, which I have already presented in detail in the general debate. That's all, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u123	Thank you, too. Mr Babka is the last logged in for a detailed debate. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u124	Thank you for the floor. I mentioned here in the general debate that, in response to the Minister, I will read a new amendment which will relate to effectiveness and therefore to Part IV. Act, Effectiveness, Art. 6: "This law shall take effect on 1 January 2024. " Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-001-003.u125	Thank you, too. Since I no longer see anyone else enrolled in the detailed debate, I am ending the debate in detail. As part of the second reading, there were neither proposals to return the law to the guarantee committee, nor to shorten the deadline for third reading, nor to deal with the guarantee committee by law. There was a motion to reject the vote at third reading, so this concludes the second reading. I'm just gonna ask if there's any interest in final words? But since you're getting up, I don't think so. Thank you. I'm opening another point, and that's it.
