ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-24-ps2021-050-05-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening another meeting on the 50th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome to all of you. In order to record our participation, I have just checked you all out, and I would like you to sign up with ID cards, or I would like to know who is applying for a replacement card. I agree that the following Members asked to apologize for their absence from the hearing for personal Babiš, Bžoch Jaroslav for the whole day for family reasons, Decroix Eva for the whole day for work reasons, Dostálová Klára for the whole day for personal reasons, but cancels an apology, Fialová Eva from 9 to 16 hours for work reasons, Flek Josef for the whole day for health Skopeček, Šimon Libor until 14.30 for working reasons, Janulík Miloslav for the whole day for the whole day for foreign reasons, Kašník Pavel for the whole day for health reasons, Král Václav for the whole day for the whole Andrej for working reasons, Mašek Jiří for the whole day for working reasons, pokorný Jermanová Jaroslava for the Wenzl Milan for the whole day of the sitting for medical reasons, Potůčková Lucie for the whole day for personal reasons, Pražák David for the whole working day, for the whole working reasons, Quittová Petra for the whole day for health reasons, for the whole day, for the whole day of proceedings. From the members of the government apologize: Fiala Petr from the whole day of the meeting due to foreign travel, Balaš Vladimír within 17 hours for working reasons, Bek Mikuláš from the whole meeting day for working reasons, Blažek Pavel from the whole meeting day due to foreign travel, Lipavskýý Jan from the whole meeting day for working reasons, Nekula Zdeněk from the whole meeting day for working reasons and Šalomoun Michal from 17 hours for working reasons. Madam Members, I would now like to inform you of the proposals on which today's grémium has been agreed. Firstly, we propose to include a new item on the agenda, i.e. House document 1755, the draft rules on the management of membership clubs for 2023. Secondly, we propose the following procedure this week. Today discuss the points in this order: item 2, House press 238, investment companies and funds, second reading; item 15, House press 332 on railways, first reading; item 16, House press 347, abolition of obsoletal legislation, first reading; item 102, House press 21, report on implementation of the state budget of the Czech Republic for the first half; paragraph 131, House printing 324, report on the implementation of the state budget of the Czech Republic for the first half of 2022, and then continue with other points from the News block, proposals and other points, up to paragraph 130. Tomorrow's meeting day, Wednesday 25 January, will begin by discussing a new item - draft rules for the management of Members' clubs for 2023, House document 1755, if included, then proceed with the discussion of paragraphs 135, proposal to confirm the chair of the Committee of the Chamber of Deputies; paragraph 91, House press 163, surveying, third reading, and then continue to discuss the unnegotiated items included on Tuesday's meeting day. That's all on my side. An overview of the remaining points has been sent to you by e-mail. They are now on the agenda, on changes to the agenda, some Members and Members. First of all, I have an application here with Prime Minister Benda's priority right, but I don't see him present, so I'm moving his application to the end. And now, then, President Schillerová's enrollment on the agenda, followed by President Okamura. [[There's noise in the room.]] I beg you, colleagues, to be quiet. If you want to deal with anything, move your conversations to the lobby so that we can hear the proposals for changing the agenda and we know what we will then decide in the vote. So once again, I'm asking you to keep your voice down, let's just say the House, in all the corners of the hall, so the Prime Minister can step forward. I still feel like the noise is too much. Colleagues and colleagues, whether in the left or right side of the hall, whether you are club presidents or not, please keep your voice down so we can continue. Please, Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-24-ps2021-050-05-000-000.u2	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear colleagues, let me be the first item on today's day of this meeting with the title Confirmed... Minister of Labour and Social Affairs confirmed missing pension money. Now let me justify this point. On Sunday in Questions Václav Moravec, 22 January 2023, Mr Jurečka, who sits behind me, has confirmed the good news, I will start with the positive, good news that there will be an extraordinary valuation of pensions, so he confirmed what we have pointed out repeatedly and what the National Budget Board has also pointed out, so it is becoming a reality.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-24-ps2021-050-05-000-000.u3	I understand you, Madam President, and once again I ask colleagues and colleagues to go to the lobby if they have anything to deal with and let you out. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-24-ps2021-050-05-000-000.u4	Thank you, Madam President. The average increase in pension could be between 700 and 1,000 crowns, said Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka on the quoted series Questions Václav Moravec. When specifically the extraordinary valuation of pensions occurs, the MPSV will be clear in the middle of February, when the Czech Statistical Office will publish the level of January inflation, but according to the Minister it could be already in June. And here again in this place, I have done this several times in the Chamber of Deputies meeting, last week as part of the government's mistrust negotiations, again I ask: where is the 20 billion that the government - the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs - will need? I will quote the National Budgetary Council, which has said about the valuation, and I quote: "In view of the high amount, it cannot reasonably be assumed that it will be possible to cover it from savings in other state budget items. " [[14.10 hours]] So I'm asking when the Minister of Finance Stanjura will face this. It is totally unacceptable for him to create marketing Baťa deficits that do not fully correspond to real reality. And I understand that he doesn't have the nerve to pick up microphones last week, I understand that, and I wouldn't have the nerve to draw up budgets like that, but the truth and reality will catch up with him anyway. Here's 20 billion, and he's not gonna talk his way out of it, like he said at the 2022 cashier press conference that we're gonna see each other and that he's gonna figure out a way to deal with it. That's how you see yourself. We can see that the money isn't there and that it will be needed, confirmed by the Minister of Labour. And, of course, it's not just about this valorization of pensions, even though it's a very sensitive subject - and we're going to keep reminding and asking questions - but I'm reminiscing in this place again because I don't get answers from the finance minister. I repeat that the Minister of Finance is making an optical attempt to reduce the deficit in an unacceptable way, for example, and again I will quote the independent National Budgetary Council, 'a shift of imbalances into a balance of 30 billion national special-purpose funds'. That means, I will explain - there are contracts concluded at the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure, only there is missing coverage of 30 billion. And the minister, or the ministers, both of them, say, that's the loan, and we'll see, we don't know the parameters yet. And when's the loan? What's the interest? What are the parameters? Don't hide it, it's public money. Here again, I will quote what the independent National Budget Board has to say: "The extent of the state budget subsidy to the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure does not allow all its planned expenditure to be covered. The management of this fund in 2023 is thus assumed with a deficit of almost 31 billion." That's the kind of management that the finance minister doesn't have the nerve to do. Well, I'll keep going. Until now, he has not explained once - and I ask that question from the start of the state budget hearing for 2023 not only I, my colleague, the shadow environmental minister Richard Brabec, asks too - how it is possible that there is an extra 50 billion on the income side of the State Environmental Fund. We do not have national legislation, we do not have the notification by the European Commission, we do not have the notification by the European Investment Bank. He's quiet. And, of course, I will remind you of the energy crisis expenditure - I can't see Minister Síkela, I haven't seen him in a long time, we haven't seen him, my colleagues have asked me today where the Minister is - so I just want to say that we aren't really clear here either. The budget envisages compensation of 100 billion for subsidies for price ceilings. The government's regulation approved 200 billion with a fundamental reminder from the Energy Regulatory Authority that it should be 242. Well, let me tell you, my dear colleagues, I really wouldn't have the nerve to be in the finance minister's place. No wonder he doesn't have the nerve. Another point that I would like to include at the meeting of today's House as item number 2 of today's meeting is the abolition of 10% of the VAT rate, the second reduced rate, which has already been announced in the media several times by the Minister of Finance, even though he said that five koalice had not yet discussed this. I'll let you know which items it concerns. I know this precisely because it was reassigned by our government, or by the government, in which we were and in which we had Ministry of Finance: medicines and vaccines, aqueous and sewers, heat from central heat plants, infant food and child food, mass transportation, books, newspapers, magazines, coloring books, maps including book lending, admission to cultural events, sports events, sports, sports facilities, ZOOs and so on, catering services and serving drinks including draft beer, accommodation services, hotels and pensions, home care for children, old, sick and disabled citizens, hairdressing and hairdressing services, repair of footwear and leather products, repair and treatment of clothing and textile products, repair of bicycles, cleaning services of indoor spaces carried out in households, cleaning and cleaning of waste water including other services related to these activities, electronic books and audiobooks. I believe I haven't forgotten anything. Now let's take a closer look at these items. Watery and guttery, at least 500 crowns a year. It is an analysis by the Ministry of Finance of 2020, which concerns the four-member family at the water price at the time, so of course the price is higher today. It's drug tax. According to a press release from the State Institute for Drug Control of 26. 5. In 2015, when it was introduced, at that time, the VAT on medicines for insurance companies and patients was reduced by 3 billion per year. This money will be missing, of course at those prices, the prices will be different today. So is the public health insurance payment gonna go up, or are the citizens gonna pay for it? And the Minister of Finance's argument that there are protective limits is limping on both legs. It's the argument of a man who is completely separated from reality. The protective limits apply only to prescription drugs. Free drugs for pain, temperature, cough, diarrhea, as well as birth control, i.e. those that people buy most often, do not enter the limit at all, so the drug budget will clearly increase significantly to households. Secondly, the protection limits themselves - there it is necessary to realise that the vast majority of insured people will not reach them at all. For example, VZP has 6 million clients and only 250,000 insured persons reach limits, i.e. every 24th insured person, so, on average, 25 people do not cost prescription drugs to one person, but 24 people do. Václav Krása, chairman of the National Council of Persons with Health Insurance, said on 13 January 2023, and I quote: "I do not understand how the government can talk about increasing drug VAT when the European trend is exactly the opposite." VAT on accommodation services. Citation from the opinion of the Association of Hotels and Restaurants of 11 January 2023: "The current government coalition declared before parliamentary elections that it would not increase taxes, and this promise was repeatedly publicly repeated. Any increase in VAT is logically already directly reflected in the prices of final consumers. For customers, this would mean an additional price increase at a time of high inflation. This step would further reduce their competitiveness by increasing the final price for consumers, in a situation where tourism has not yet been able to recover from the downturns caused by the reduction in traffic during the pandemic and is facing an increase in energy prices and all inputs." [[14.20 hours]] Václav Stárek, President of the Association of Hotels and Restaurants, said: "The role of tourism in creating employment and developing small businesses is often underestimated and underestimated in the formulation and implementation of legislation. This also applies to the formation of tax systems. If we are part of the European Union, then we should also try to reconcile the conditions in this area and not expose entrepreneurs to further economic shock in our services. We understand the government's intention to simplify the VAT structure and move to one reduced rate, but moving to the basic rate for any service that has been at the lowest reduced rate so far would mean an increase of at least 11 percent. All of this, in a situation where we have the highest contributions for employees and currently also one of the highest inflations in the EU, would be liquidation for many entrepreneurs. We should not be an island in the EU with the highest tax burden on entrepreneurs, but instead try to remain competitive in the European market." End of quote. VAT on books, the Association of Czech Book Buyers and Publishers, a statement from 11 January 2023: "The Union of Czech Book Buyers and Publishers is disturbed by the intention to increase the lowest VAT rate and thus increase VAT to books. The Czech Republic would go in a different direction than Europe. The European Union has recently made it possible for all Member States to introduce up to a zero rate of VAT on books and, in recent years, VAT on books in Europe has been falling in the long term. Bulgaria's last rate has been reduced. With the newly planned VAT rate, the Czech book market would thus be subject to the highest tax throughout the EU, with the exception of Denmark, which, however, invests in full in the purchase of libraries and support programmes. The subsequent reduction in the availability of books would be reflected in lower reading literacy in children, in lower availability of educational and professional books and in lower offer of book titles in general. This would also result in a reduction in the competitiveness of our economy. Overall, this step would degrade us on a country that does not appreciate education and culture. However, we believe that this was an unfortunate consideration and that the government will give way to its intention under the weight of arguments. We are prepared to be a fair partner and expert guarantor in this discussion." End of quote. So allow me to pay VAT on these considerations. The ODS wants to simplify taxes by simply increasing them. I'm sure, Minister Stanjur, absent Minister Stanjur, that you don't want that kind of simplification. So try, and repeat, I said it here last week, try asking people, "Hello, Mr. Novák, next year you won't pay for a $3,650 ticket like this year, but $4,000. Yeah, and you're actually gonna pay for the $500 for the water. But don't worry, everything's fine, we've relieved you of a huge burden in the form of a third VAT rate." Are you kidding me? Are you kidding people? This means a false pre-election promise that you will consolidate without raising taxes, live. And we can recall your promises: July 14, 2021, iDNES: "The coalition of SPOLU, ODS, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09 has committed itself to not proposing tax increases if it participates in the government. The only exception is the digital tax, the condition is a solution at international level and so on, the former head of the ODS Members and the likely candidate of the SOPO coalition for the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura." So to say no, now there is such a modern word that households will not feel the change - I say that the coalition of SPOLU calculates very badly. If the goods move from 10% of the rate to 13 or 14 percent, we will see, it will be automatically increased. On the contrary, for goods for which VAT will be reduced from 15 to 13, 14 per cent, it will not be overrated because they retain the difference in strings. A classic example is food. We introduced the EET to collect taxes from everyone, honestly, not just from the honest ones, which are certainly the majority, and thus we could reduce them. We introduced the EET, we reduced taxes, and most people understood that. Therefore, there was such support for the EET and so much in the survey of people against its abolition. You canceled the EET, and because unfortunately not every taxpayer is honest - let's face it, that's why all the professional unions and chambers fought against this step of yours - so you don't collect taxes and you have to raise them. Simple as that. If you go west of our borders, you'll see that getting a receipt is perfectly normal. And the higher VAT, I'm going to repeat it to you again, which you're proposing, is actually a tax on the 90th logic of ODS. It's an EET cancellation tax. Now I've heard on the talk show, I'll follow up on the discussion show at the OVM, where the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs was on Sunday, that he's dropping his promise to the government to cut by 2 percentage points of social insurance paid by the employer. I have warned from the outset that it is a blackout of approximately 40 billion crowns, which you cannot logically afford. So you didn't know what you were promising at all, because I don't want to explicitly suspect that you were lying - you didn't know and now you have to humiliately admit that you won't be able to fulfill this promise because you're cutting off the state's revenue, and you have a lot of inflationary revenue from that inflation tax, thanks to the huge inflation that you haven't managed to contain in any way. You are unable to draw money out of the EU, 54 billion you could have had in your budget, but instead you are setting up a newsstand for new ministries and newsrooms for various of your friends. Yesterday, Eurostat came up with new numbers. The Czech Republic, as the only country of the European Union, is deepening its debt. These are figures - comparison of 2021 and 2022. Unbelievable. Unbelievable what you've done. At the end of 2021, the debt was 42 percent of GDP and you achieved an increase of 4.7 percentage points to 45,2 percent. You like nominal amounts, so it's some 460 billion, 469 maybe exactly. Those are your vows to consolidate, how you can handle it, how you cut it against Babišův's spending government. This is the result of your work. It's an incredible shame. And the grave silence on Twitter, it's really deafening to you since yesterday when those numbers were published. [[14.30 hours]] And let me ask for a third point. We can include him as a third item on today's day or as a first item on tomorrow's day, I'll just leave that to you. It's from another keg. And I would like from this point - I would like that point to be called Apology of Secretary of Defense Jana Černochová - and I would like to invite her from this place to apologize to all my colleagues, all members of the ANO Group of Members who represent about one and a half million voters to apologize for calling them slaves on Sunday's discussion programme. Those are such crazy words that I don't want to lead any controversy with them, Madam Secretary. It is not worth the controversy and it is not worthy of any politics, and certainly not of the Minister of such an important resort. So I challenge you, please have the courage, have the humility, have the decency, come here and apologize to all my colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-24-ps2021-050-05-000-000.u5	Before I give the floor to another logged in, just a few announcements. With replacement cards, Mr Staněk - number 27, Mr Bělobrádek - 33 votes. Mr Kettner Zdeněk apologizes from 15 to 16 o'clock for work reasons, Kobza Jiří from 16.15 for work reasons, and Mrs Potůčková takes back her apology today. The President, Mr Tomio Okamura, is now registered with priority rights, followed by President Radim Fiala. Please keep it down. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-24-ps2021-050-05-000-000.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose an extraordinary point at a meeting of the Chamber of Deputies called the Asocial Purple Government wants to make water, infant food, beer, books and other life needs more expensive for people. This is, of course, unacceptable to the SPD. Government officials of the Fialův Government, i.e. the ODS coalition, TOP 09, Pirates, STAN and KDU-ČSL are already publicly talking about abolishing the lowest VAT rate of 10 percent, where there are, for example, drinking water, draft beer, infant food, medicines, books, accommodation and catering services, and so on. The Fialův Government wants to move these items to a new higher VAT rate of 14 percent. This means that the Fialův Government wants to make these basic life needs more expensive to all citizens of the Czech Republic. And I'm not even ashamed to include beer, because you want to make it more expensive, so it's okay that I put it there, because I'm not ashamed that I also like to have a beer and that the citizens of the Czech Republic like beer is part of our life. But this is also drinking water, it's baby food, medicine and so on. The SPD is fundamentally refusing to raise taxes, plus raising taxes on basic life needs, and also in a situation where, for example, in the case of medicines, especially chronically ill people, wonder if some of the medicines, which, moreover, due to the inability of the Fialův Government, are lacking, whether to even pick up such medicines and start enjoying them because people have no money. And in this situation, it can increase VAT, thus increasing these items to citizens, really only a crazy person or an association. Moreover, the government plans to increase taxes only to Czech citizens who cannot resist this, while refusing to tax and limit the billion-dollar revenues of foreign companies exporting capital from the Czech Republic. As far as drugs are concerned, the government does not deal with the situation in the long run, and in addition, government officials here lie when they say it's a global problem. It is not a global problem, for example Nurofen goes to Czech citizens to buy in Poland, penicillin is driven from Slovakia. This means it is the total failure of Prime Minister Petr Fiala from ODS and Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek from TOP 09. Of course, the other sides of the government's five-calice are doing nothing about it, and they're just silent about it, or they're still supporting this government. So, moreover, the government is also talking about increasing the age of retirement, abolishing education, shortening the period of parental allowance, raising taxes to natural persons, i.e. all citizens of the Czech Republic. For example, the President of KDU-ČSL and Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka are openly discussing this. That, of course, is rejected by the SPD. For these reasons, we believe that the government should come before the House again, because in this context, the Fialův Government wants to change the government's programming statement, on the basis of which it has gained confidence in the House, of course, only the government's five-wheeler's trust. We voted against because we will certainly not vote for these programming points and we cannot, SPD, because it is contrary to our pre-election promises. But that's not what the government coalition is worried about, because you promised not to raise taxes, and you're about to raise taxes. Moreover, you promised not to indebt the Czech Republic. I will get to that at the second extraordinary point, because on the contrary, the Czech Republic, as the only country in the European Union, is increasing national debt. So I think that this serious information that you actually want... You want to load the Czech citizens with more, simply higher taxes, to scrape Czech citizens off their skin again. And on the other hand, you guys voted to raise politicians' salaries here. I proposed freezing, you rejected my proposal, the freeze of politicians' salaries, you rejected my proposal, the SPD proposal. You have voted here for an unlimited number of political deputy ministers so that your political exponents of the government coalition will have an unlimited number of trades for hundreds of thousands of crowns a month, cars with drivers, secretariats. The moment you want to pry on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and So I would really like to propose this point, and I'm already suggesting it here not for the first time, and it's a point called the Asocial Purple Government wants to make the people's medicine, water, infant food, books and other vital needs more expensive." I also put the beer there, and another vital life... or you put it in that list, I'm just reading it. I must say that I do not agree with the fact that Prime Minister Fiala here says publicly that you do not want to ask for confidence on the basis of the government's planned programme statement. I think that in such fundamental changes, when you completely fundamentally change your government's programming statement, and you want to change it, I think it is necessary that the government coalition here again asks the government for confidence to check that, because it seems that we all and the public are aware that all government Members agree to tax increases, which is so, all five sides agree. But maybe there's someone there who won't agree to it anymore, because your government's trust is just over 20 percent, and people don't want your government, so maybe someone's gonna be prying their conscience. And it would also be fair to ask for that trust again when you are changing the program so fundamentally, you want to change the government's programming statement. Of course, Prime Minister Petr Fiala of the ODS is afraid, so he announced in the media that you will not be asking for any trust, although you are actually flagrantly violating both the election and the post-election promises to your constituents. I am not surprised that you are afraid because, according to the survey, you are the worst government in modern history and government that has the lowest confidence even in the modern history of the Czech Republic. You do not solve expensive food at all, while the surrounding countries, for example, reduced VAT to basic food, for example, to zero, namely Poland, even in Germany, are cheaper food than in the Czech Republic, citizens go there to buy meat, Czech citizens... You don't do anything about it, so drugs, food, basic needs, expensive energy, overpriced energy. The Czech Republic, as we know, according to statistics from the end of last year, has the highest annual increase in energy prices from all over the European Union. That means it's a total failure of the Fialův Government, and the worst thing is if you at least pay for it yourself, but it applies to all citizens of the Czech Republic, including the voters of the SPD, and that, of course, doesn't leave us cold at all. So that is the first point I would like to place as the first point in today's House of Deputies meeting. [[14.40 hours]] Moreover, not only do you basically want to increase citizens' lives, but you still want to indebt the Czech Republic more and more, and you are borrowing, planning to borrow more than 100 billion from the European Commission, foreign banks and so on, so we are actually gradually getting into the so-called Greek scenario, where after a few years of your government is in danger of not being able to afford decent pensions, decent social security for citizens, or decent access to health care. As a second point today, as another extraordinary point on today's agenda of the Chamber of Deputies, I would like to propose a point called the Czech Republic is the only country in the European Union that has increased national debt due to the Fialův Government last year. Let me say this again: the Czech Republic is the only country in the European Union that increased national debt due to the Fialův Government last year. I'd like to propose it as point number 2 today, because the situation is really serious. The Fialův Government, as it throws tens of billions all over the place, maybe abroad, whether it be overpriced orders, foreign overpriced purchases, whether it be tens of billions to support Ukrajinec, while our citizens are in need - we say we are in favour of adequate humanitarian aid, but at the moment, as we know, according to international statistics, millions of Czech citizens are below the poverty line because of the Fialův Government, another million are at the poverty line, so it is not really steps to the extent that we can agree with. And yesterday, Eurostat, the European Union's statistical office, the European Union you loved, said that the Czech Republic was the only country in the European Union that increased its national debt last year. In absolute terms, the debt of the Czech Republic exceeded CZK 2.98 trillion in the third quarter, so the Fialův government is in the next parameter the worst country in all countries in the European Union - the worst government in all countries of the European Union. And as I said here last time, and according to other figures, for example, regarding the decline in real wages, which is about 9 percent, the real wages of Czech citizens, again it is the worst number from all countries of the European Union, so the Fialův Government is actually leading the Czech Republic, has already brought the Czech Republic to the bottom, to the very bottom of the European Union in many serious and fundamental parameters. Indeed, it is high time that you wrap it up and stop harming yourself. You are the government of the earth's pests. At the same time, I will just recapitulate that a year earlier, i.e. in the third quarter of 2021, the debt of the Czech Republic exceeded CZK 2.43 trillion, and now, after the year of the rule of the Fialův Government, it is already CZK 2.98 trillion, and the Czech Republic is the only country in the European Union that has increased debt year-on-year last year. The debt has been reduced throughout the European Union, reduced to 85.1 percent of GDP, and in the euro area debt has fallen to 93 percent of GDP, which is, of course, who knows the economy, is already an incredible housenumer. Of course, the Czech Republic is approaching these figures because of the Fialův Government, the ratio to GDP, but these are some scary numbers. So, on the one hand, the debt has fallen in the European Union, which is certainly a good trend, but the figure itself is completely monstrous, and I really do when I hear the arguments - but this is also how Andrej Babiš argued, which was also crazy, the argument, the Fialův government is now arguing - that the debt in the European Union is said to be higher than GDP. Well, to say that because they're even more indebted elsewhere, we can also get into more debt, that's an incredible argument, that's got to be completely rejected. That's basically, if the Czech household or the company were to run this kind of business, it's already in execution or insolvency, it's going to fail. Of course, when we look at these debt figures of the European Union and the eurozone - and notice that eurozone debt, where they have the euro, is higher than the average of the European Union, so you can see how it does not work with the euro at all - it is not the European Union. The European Union fully deserves to be renamed a debt union, and it is nothing more than a debt union. The European Union is not working, it is not working economically, and it is already in debt and debt, it is in debt. And, as I said, he is in debt astronomically and borrowing from foreign banks, borrowing from the European Union everywhere. And here, why I am talking about this, it is important here to deny the lie that is still parroted by European Union advocates, or the Fialův Government, but also by the ANO Andrej Babiš movement, that the European Union will lend us that it is European money. (a) they are not European, because by far all countries are not in the European Union in Europe, for example Switzerland, Norway and other countries are not there, but secondly, we do not borrow money from the European Commission or the European Union, because it borrows it for a) but the Czech Republic also guarantees the loans. This means it would be good if you stopped lying here, because the Czech Republic guarantees the loans themselves, which means citizens of the Czech Republic, for decades they are responsible for them. Newly and newly such loans were taken by Andrej Babiš in government, unacceptable loans, and then everyone here lied that they were loans from the European Union, while they were loans for the guarantee of the Czech Republic and it was all on debt because the European Union is simply not working and it is a really crazy project from this point of view. If it was in a normal life, it would be a long time ago for a family like this, for a project like this, or insolvency, and it would have ended a long time ago. By the way, even economists comment on the actions of the Fialův government. For example, I will quote economist Lukáš Kovanda: "The figures show that the Czech Republic is the worst impact within the whole European Union, the worst after the pandemic recovery of its public finances, and even the freshest developments do not offer much comfort or hope. The current government, however, does not have much to do with the recovery of public finances." So even economists judge the actions of the Fialův Government quite clearly and again I say, you are the worst government in modern Czech history. You also have the lowest trust of citizens in modern Czech history. Indeed, there is a need to develop, and we, as the SPD, will exert all political pressure through political methods so that your government will end as soon as possible. So these are my two proposals for special points for the SPD, and as I say, I suggest that we start the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-24-ps2021-050-05-000-000.u7	Yes, thank you. The next party is President Radim Fiala with priority rights, followed by Vice-President Dostálová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-24-ps2021-050-05-000-000.u8	Thank you for the floor. It doesn't happen very often, but I will comment on my previous speaker, my colleague, President Tomio Okamura. I think we have obviously seen that the European Union could rename itself a so-called debt union, that is indeed a society of indebted countries in the world, and it is just starting to become a huge problem for everyone. But I understand that this is an important matter for the European Union, because the more those countries are more indebted, the more they will hold hands and fear to let go, because they themselves would fall into some bankruptcy or financial problems that would be hard to get out of. But if they're in this debt union, she has rescue mechanisms where she just puts one zero on the computer -- it doesn't even print anymore, but it adds one zero because she's short of money. It issues bonds for the southern states of Europe at 2%, because with a higher interest rate, those countries would have gone bankrupt long ago, so it is simply a debt union. But let's go from the drugs that have been talked about here, which are not, let's go from expensive foods that have one of the highest price increases that go far beyond the inflation mentioned, which was 15, 16 percent year on year, and food prices are rising by up to 50 percent, let's go to the most interesting and important commodity, and that's energy. So, Madam President, I can have you - or Madam President, I would need a rear-view mirror to see you and talk into a microphone - so, Madam President, please write down that I want to place a point that will be called that the Government of Petr Fiala has failed to cope with the energy crisis and cannot cope with the energy crisis. [[14.50 hours]] In the Czech Republic, we have the highest prices of electricity from all Member States of the European Union after conversion into the so-called purchasing power parity, which means the local population income level. This results from the latest data of the Happy Index, which consists of consulting companies VaasaETT from Finland, E-control from Germany and the Hungarian energy regulator MEH, which compares energy prices for European countries. I deliberately quote those organizations and companies that conducted this survey so that you can't call this information misinformation and say that it's a lie and that it's all completely different. It's just not, it's true. While the Czech household came 1 kilowatt hour of electricity at the beginning of December 2022 - this means that I am talking about data that is less than two months old, it is not an old survey - so the Čech came 1 kilowatt hour at 68.2 eurocent, Italy at 53.7 eurocent and the Němec paid only 46.6 eurocent for it. Our consumers are forced to pay such high prices, even though we are fully self-sufficient as a state in the production of cheap electricity and although the Czech Republic represents this government, Petr Fiala's government, has a share of 70 percent in ČEZ, which is our largest electricity producer. The current situation has a strong negative impact on the social situation of Czech households and Czech companies. 1 kilowatt hour will produce Czech nuclear power plants for less than 1 kroner, reaching us in 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 kroner. And I'm asking the government, where's the money? What's the difference between one crown and some $1.50 profit? What's the difference in the 7 crowns? Who are we giving this to? We compensate businessmen, compensate dealers because the prices are from the stock market. It is very wrong, because, of course, by compensating it, the state budget pays for it, and despite windfall tax and various other taxes, the government will not be able to raise as much money as it compensates those traders, and the Czech state budget will simply pay for it within two or three years, because if we compensate something between 100 billion and 200 billion a year, then the state budget simply cannot hold it. And I'm asking, where in three years will the government take on pensions, where will it take on welfare benefits and other necessary mandatorial expenses? I mean, they're not going to be able to borrow money, they're going to borrow it at outrageous interest rates, like 7 percent, 8 percent, maybe even more. That means if we're paying less than 50 billion interest today, it could be 100 billion, 100 billion interest every year in the coming years! Do you know what a mountain of money is? We wouldn't even cross it! It is clearly the responsibility of this government, the government of Petr Fiala, which also has regulatory instruments, but does not use them to further piss off our citizens and companies and to secure additional billion-dollar revenues from the state budget through excessive prices. But we have called on the government to introduce the so-called social tariff. This means whether the nuclear power plant produces electricity for 1 crown, so that it adds some profit to it, to add distribution fees to it and sell it to Czech companies, Czech citizens, and not for 7 or 9 or for how much and not compensate anyone for it. That's the only way we can get out of this. In other words, the Czech Government - I do not know if this has the political courage to do so - but the Czech Government must take responsibility for the production of electricity, its distribution and pricing policy, and not that it will leave it on some European market that is fiction and which simply does not work and does not exist just because the Němec have managed to shut down their nuclear and coal power plants and electricity are scarce. So we can already watch the deindustrialization of the Czech Republic live now. Firms are getting into huge problems, they're being sold - there's a lot of them on the market, those companies that are being offered for sale today because they don't have any profits anymore. The government is arguing with some kind of research that says they don't let go of that much in those companies. Yeah, because agency employees are being fired, they're not on the main job, so they're getting rid of the big companies first, but still the increase in layoffs is and probably will be in the future. First of all. Secondly, those companies don't make any profits. When they do not generate profits, they cannot, on the one hand, invest in innovation, in other matters relating to employees, but also will not pay corporate tax because they will not have profits. This means that the Czech state budget will lose more funds, and of course the government will try to collect them somewhere else, and it is already mentioned: VAT from 10 to 13 to 14, personal income tax, progressive personal income tax, increased corporate tax, real estate tax and other taxes. I mean, it's publicly available in the Journals, just look at where Vice Prime Minister Marian Jurečka, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, and Minister of Finance Stanjura are talking about it. Each of them is saying something about not being such a public hit. So I'm clearly saying that the government should do a social tariff, not look left, right, it's our companies, it's our employees. And I'm gonna say one more thing about that. The globalized world we knew is over. It's over! This means that the Czech Republic will have to go back to producing some other things such as its own medicines, at least the most important ones, because we cannot stand in line in India and China for antibiotics or some of their ingredients. We're just gonna have to go back to a lot of things that, thanks to the globalized world, we've left because we're used to being here tomorrow or tomorrow. It's just the supply-customer chains have broken off, it's a big problem, and I think the globalized world, as we knew it, is ending. So, I guess that was all I had to say. Madam Speaker, do you have that written down?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-24-ps2021-050-05-000-000.u9	Petr Fiala's government can't handle the energy crisis was the name, and when do you want to include it?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-24-ps2021-050-05-000-000.u10	I'd put it on tonight as... Do you have a point yet?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-24-ps2021-050-05-000-000.u11	We have, we have a lot of proposals for first points, two and three.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-24-ps2021-050-05-000-000.u12	Well, I'll put it next after the points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-24-ps2021-050-05-000-000.u13	Yes, after the fixed points today. Okay. [[Member of Radim Fiala: Thank you.]] Vice-President Klára Dostálová is now registered with priority rights, then Vice-President Havlíček is reporting, all priority rights so far. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-24-ps2021-050-05-000-000.u14	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are witnessing the fact that we are once again trying to include in the House's meeting points for discussion which are bothering the citizens of this country, and if I could bet, I bet that neither of them will be included again. This means all the problems that are bothering us - you are addressing us in the parliamentary offices, in order to in some way support the government to solve the problems - so unfortunately, even today there will probably not be an assignment, but I will not be ahead of myself, perhaps I will be pleasantly surprised. [[15.00 hours]] It should be recalled that we have a few completely unflattering firsts in the European Union. We have the highest decline in real wages in the independent history of the Czech Republic, but even the highest decline in real wages from all OECD countries. We have the most expensive price of electricity and gas in purchasing power from all countries of the European Union, and we are exporters of the European Union. We make electricity for $500 a megawatt hour, but we all pay backups between $8,000 and $9,000 a month. We have one of the highest inflation rates in the long term from all countries of the European Union. Over 80 percent of households are feeling more expensive, 19 percent are even in major problems. And to make matters worse, after 30 years from the revolution, we've come to the point that we're short of drugs. But we have a shortage of drugs in the Czech Republic, when you go to your neighbors in Poland, to Germany, there are no such blackouts. So today we're in a time where we're not looking for tangerines, we're not standing in line for tangerines, but we're looking for underpult drugs for our children and our grandchildren. My proposal for today's point is towards the real estate market and the housing crisis. Many young families really turn to me that the situation is no longer unsustainable for them. We in the Czech Republic - and we have to remember this all the time - have 80 percent of the property housing and only 20 percent of the rental housing. Unfortunately, the property housing is, of course, bound by a mortgage. Young people who acquired ownership housing went to the interest rates offered to them, and we always moved somewhere from 2 to 4 percent. Of course, these young people, when they calculated their family budget, even though Mom stayed on maternity leave, they usually did. But the situation today is completely opposite. Indeed, young people cannot cope with the current situation in housing with high mortgage prices. And I ask, which is why I want to include this item at the meeting, what does the government do to support housing in the Czech Republic? How does he want to help young people, but even seniors or vulnerable groups, to achieve their own housing at all? We have read constantly that it is very important for young people to stand on their own feet as quickly as possible, to stand on their own, so that the so-called mamahouse simply does not work, that we give young people the green light into their lives, and the fact is that instead of all of us thinking about it and of course building it on those pillars, so that it can be built in the Czech Republic at all, which, of course, alpha omega is a faster, more efficient building law, the Law of the Year has won, but unfortunately, the current government coalition has abolished it and we will see and hopefully manage to approve some new, fast, dynamic building law at least this year. These are the narrow throats that, of course, make housing construction impossible and expensive. And just a few numbers to get a picture of yourself: housing prices according to the Czech Statistical Office increased by 16.6% year on year in the third quarter of 2022. There has also been an increase in the price index, or cost of property occupied by owners, by more than 17 percent. And the fact that real estate prices are rising is also due to the very low construction. Current figures also say that according to the Czech Banking Association for the whole year 2022, banks and construction savings banks provided mortgage loans amounting to 197 billion, which represents a year-on-year decline of around 60 percent, and in December 2022, the fall in mortgage loans was 82 percent. Moreover, the interest rate on newly granted mortgage loans is still increasing. And in this situation, when we talk about stopping the mortgage market, the current government supports raising interest as a cure for inflation. At the same time, the coalition in the pre-election rhetoric - and we all heard it - repeatedly spoke about the construction of affordable and social housing. We've all recorded at all the media shows: we're going to build 100,000 flats a year. And I'm asking, where are they? Where are the apartments? Where can I send the young families who turn to me in the MP's office that are desperately looking for apartments so that they can start a family and, of course, stand on their own two feet? It needs to be realized that the fourth period that this government has ahead of it is actually exhausted, and unfortunately I have to say that I do not see the imaginary light at the end of the tunnel. I have to ask, and that is why I want to place this item at today's meeting, why has the Ministry of Regional Development stopped the promotion of cooperative housing, where young people could at least touch on state support if they consist of a so-called cooperative share? Why is there no support for multigenerational homeowners to divide multigenerational houses into separate housing units? Today, seniors live alone in multi-generation apartments, but they don't have the money to make separate bathrooms and separate entrances, while it would be really small money, literally you could say that it would be a lot of music for little money, and at the same time it would be more independent apartment units on the market. I also ask - we all perceive the current situation of mortgages - why are not multigenerational mortgages addressed? Why is it that those young people will have a maturity period just longer with the guarantee of the state to reduce their payments to their own homes? Today you have a mortgage maturity of 20 to 25 years, so let's have 35 to 40, because, of course, your payment will fall, and again young people will be able to afford to go into their own housing. Why doesn't the project continue to build the flats? After all, the state has a really large number of projects, it can go into cooperative construction and so on, but unfortunately, the project that our government started is not continuing. So all I see is the failure to deal with the housing crisis, delaying the construction law, and creating an airlock. Therefore, I would like to include this point in order to actually talk about what we all Members of this country can do to accelerate housing construction in the Czech Republic, and I request that we include it as the first point on Wednesday 25 January. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-24-ps2021-050-05-000-000.u15	Thank you. Before Vice-President Havlíček gets here, I'll read the apologies. Mr Hofmann Jan apologizes from 16 to 18 o'clock for reasons of work and Minister Válek from 16 o'clock for reasons of work. The Vice-President shall be followed by Mr Novák. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-24-ps2021-050-05-000-000.u16	Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government, I would like to add a point entitled Impacts of Climate Action on Households and Businesses, in the end I will repeat once again the title of this point. And I will now explain why I believe that it is necessary to discuss this within a separate point, not within what the members of the government are recommending, and these are interpelations, because we have, in a better case, a few minutes to ask a question and you have to answer it. And as I will try to show you in the next few minutes, this really is not for a five-minute answer, but for a very serious debate, because I believe that, under the Presidency of the European Union in the climate-economic-energy area, you have worked with a mandate that you have not received. You are unable to provide complete information about what was actually negotiated there and what impact it will have. So, Minister of Industry absent, I haven't seen you since the beginning of this year either. You have agreed to non-emissions since 2027 or 2030, depending on whether they are public buildings or family buildings. This in itself will mean a 10% increase in the prices of new buildings. I'd like you to confirm or disprove this, but at the same time explain to us what doesn't seem to be mentioned. By 2050, which does not look bad, all older buildings must be without emission - according to what you have agreed within the framework of energy ministers for the European Union within our Presidency. But the devil is hidden in detail, Minister, and you certainly know, I hope you know that there is a so-called transition period. [[15.10 hours]] Now, please, let's all listen to what this is about. By 2033 all buildings for so-called energy efficiency must be in total, throughout the Czech Republic, on average all buildings for the so-called energy efficiency maximum D. In fact, it means that the vast majority of buildings, residential buildings, apartments, houses, but also public buildings will have to be reconstructed because the vast majority of them do not meet this requirement, that is, D as a D. How are we going to deal with this? Do you know that it will cost hundreds of thousands of crowns for ordinary residents, landlords, or even millions for those who have a family home of older dates? What will be done about those who will not be able to do so? How does the state approach this to average it? Will it be supported in any way? Do we realize that this will be in 2033, which means that if someone wants to do renovations, modernizations, they have to start thinking about it in the coming months, maybe units of years, start saving money, start preparing not only resources, but perhaps everything about his housing, to do this? Well, that's one thing. And, Minister of Industry and at the same time, Minister of the Environment, with what mandate did you leave for the European Union for the Presidency of our automotive industry, but do I mean at this time also within or from the point of view of those who use cars? Before the Presidency, you said you wouldn't let new cars end up on internal combustion engines since 2035. In doing so, you were the first to raise your hand and were in a group of countries that supported this. You didn't even have the courage to go to that smaller group of countries that at least formally opposed it. But what's important, where are the impacts on the car market, the car industry? What's that gonna mean... with our suppliers, subcontractors? Do you know that there are thousands of companies that employ tens of thousands of employees in this area, and if I add that up, it's even 500,000 direct and indirect workers in this field? What's gonna happen to it? Will the number go down? Will he grow up? Are they going to re-allocate production to other countries or not? And how does that affect consumers, users, car owners? You know very well that thanks to this measure, the price of cars and internal combustion engines will rise by 2035 because simply and simply someone has to pay new cars, electric cars, their development, and those carmakers will naturally pay them from the profit of the existing sale of cars to internal combustion engines. How much is it? How much are the prices going to go up? Why don't you explain how the crazy emission standard Euro 7 presented by the European Commission at the time of your Presidency will end? Why don't you say that there's a critical date from 2025 to 2034, that's until the final production of cars for internal combustion engines is finished, and that within this emission standard, it's going to cost manufacturers, especially small cars, cheap cars, tens of thousands of crowns? Why don't you say that with Fabia, Škoda Fabia, that could be up to 120,000 crowns since 2025, I mean 120,000 crowns on top, which would mean it's a car worth half a million? That is why Škoda officials make it clear that it is up to us to consider whether to even make these cars, because the question will be whether it will make sense to buy these cars at all. Why doesn't it matter? Why is it not discussed that it should be in 2028, 2029 and so on? After all, we all know that this is murderous - both for our car industry and, of course, for consumers. Or are you afraid to tell them? Why is it not discussed that emission allowances have also spread to households, especially those that heat up emissions fuels? It is already in 2027 and it is necessary to ask how much more will be paid. We mean the one or the ones who use the emission fuels. We've calculated it on the average flat that will be heated by gas to CZK 5,000. Isn't that right? Isn't that right? But this should be said by the Ministry of Industry and Trade, if colleagues from the Ministry of Industry and Trade are looking at us, so please tell the Minister that this needs to be communicated, and I am convinced that you must have these calculations, because people in particular want to see it, and those who are still heating up emissions today want to see it. Why don't we say that from 2024 - yes, that's in a year - it will, and now let's listen carefully, reduce the number of emission allowances on the market. When you left for the Presidency of the European Union, you said, Minister of Industry, that you would do everything you could to increase their number, which would mean that their price would fall, which would mean that it would have a positive impact on our industry and energy prices. You succumbed to the climate massage, thanks to which Frans Timmermans, the European Union's greatest green ideology and Vice-President of the European Commission, applauded you, resulting in a reduction in the amount of emission allowances - translated into Czech, will most likely increase their price. So it will be up to you that the industry will be worse off again, that it will be much harder to deal with American and Asian competition today, and that it will, of course, have an impact on energy prices again, there will be pressure to increase their prices. It's simple math. And why is there no more communication that, from 2027 to 2028 at the latest, emission allowances will be extended to those who use cars for internal combustion engines in terms of their operation, not in terms of purchasing these cars? We have already said here that the cars will be more expensive, but there will also be special fees for their emissions, probably through the purchase of the price of petrol and diesel. So far, we've calculated that it's between 3 and 6 crowns per liter, considering how much the emission allowance will eventually cost. Why isn't this communicating? Why don't people point that out? Or are you going to let them buy cars for emission fuels and then pay significantly, significantly more? Either you don't know or you don't want to say it - you don't want to say it so you don't scare people. Both are wrong, which is why I want there to be a separate point for us to make a fuss about so that you can settle your accounts with what you actually did within the European Union to say what mandate you did so with, because I say that you did not have a political mandate, and at the same time, to quantify the impact. You have the authority, you have the people, you have the space. We will also make these estimates, and we can have a fair discussion here. But the worst thing you can do is stick your head in the sand and say how well you worked in the Presidency of the European Union without telling our people, our companies and our households what you actually negotiated there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-24-ps2021-050-05-000-000.u17	I am not sure yet if you, Mr Vice-President, mentioned when you would like to include it, if you want to place it firmly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-24-ps2021-050-05-000-000.u18	Yes, I'm sorry, as the first item in today's meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-24-ps2021-050-05-000-000.u19	Thank you. Now they follow logins that no longer have priority rights. I therefore ask Mr Novák to step forward, and Mr Robert Stržínek follows. I'm alerting you to a five-minute time limit. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-24-ps2021-050-05-000-000.u20	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Colleagues, colleagues, members of the government, please include a new item under the title Information of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka on the effects of systemization on payment of social benefits for families and social services. It's been two weeks since I asked the minister here to solve an acute, literally critical situation in the payment of benefits. The situation was caused by so-called systemization at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Unfortunately, what happened after the systemization started, up until now and exactly the same, maybe even more than 14 days ago, still threatens the payouts of almost all the subsidies to the family policy and social services section. I assumed that the appeal I was giving here 14 days ago, when the point was no longer included, so that at least he would wake up the Minister and begin to act in such a way as to correct the damage caused by the Minister of Labour at the Ministry. Unfortunately, nothing has happened, nothing has happened to this day. The social services that are in the so-called trans-regional programme still live in uncertainty, they do not know whether they will receive support from the state for the work they do. These are money that is fixed in the state budget, so they can't go anywhere else. Unfortunately, nothing happened, nothing really happened in two weeks. I'll refresh your memory. This is a threat to the payment of almost all subsidies to the family policy and social services section. The systemization really broke the entire department itself. It is about the collapse of funding for over-regional social services, the collapse of funding for children's groups, the collapse of financing for the exercise of the agenda for social-law protection of children, the performance of social work as such. [[15.20 hours]] You will recall that I mentioned here that the Social Committee adopted a resolution to suspend the systemization until 30. 6. Unfortunately, the resolution has not been implemented, I do not know why. There clearly follows that there was no analysis before the systemization began, unfortunately. That is why I am trying again to put this issue on the agenda of this meeting, and to give us information on how this situation will be corrected, how we will ensure that the organisations that take care of the citizens, the citizens needed, are funded and secure, can pay their employees. At the proposed point, I would like to hear information on how and when the situation will be corrected. It's people in need. There are now 110 organisations in the programme of over-regional and national social services, which employ a circus of 10,000 people, and these take care of at least 50,000 users. If we ignore them, we leave them on the pavement. It really needs to be dealt with. For 2023 CZK 1.7 billion is reserved in the state budget specifically for these services. Why aren't we able to separate them? Children's groups are currently 1,500, with 20,000 children in them, so about the same number of families can be in crisis because of the failure to manage the labor resort. There will be existential problems, because children's groups will not receive a subsidy in time, they will not be able to finance and disappear. Then what happens to the job market? I am not talking about what would happen in the absence of a subsidy to carry out the social-law child protection agenda, because there are already the lives of specific children. Please, let's fix this situation. Come and inform us, Minister, how we are able to correct it as quickly as possible. And for the fact that, dear colleagues from the coalition, you will support this point, thank you very much in advance. I would like to include this point as the second point after already firmly classified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-24-ps2021-050-05-000-000.u21	Thank you. And you mean today, I presume, Mr. Ambassador? [[Member Novak: Yes, today.]] Thank you. Thank you for keeping time. Mr Stržínek is next, Mrs Adámková will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-24-ps2021-050-05-000-000.u22	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as a Member of the Zlín Region, I consider it an important debate on changing the financing of the regions. The Zlín Region, which I represent here in the Chamber of Deputies, receives the third lowest amount after conversion per capita compared to the other regions, namely CZK 7 177 per capita. Beyond our Zlín Region is just the region of Moravian-Silesian and South Moravian. For comparison, Region Vysočina receives CZK 11 434 per capita, Region Jihočeský CZK 10 604 per capita and year, i.e. tens of percent more than the region Zlínský. I consider it necessary to compare these proportions and help the regions, which are at the end of this ranking, namely the regions of South Moravia, Moravian-Silesian and Zlínský. The current setting of the budgetary determination of taxes hinders the development of these regions and it is necessary to reconsider the current distribution of funds, either by changing the coefficients or by changing the RUD itself. I therefore propose to include a fair distribution of taxes to individual regions at the Chamber of Deputies' meeting as the first point after the already firmly placed points today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-24-ps2021-050-05-000-000.u23	Thank you. Now, Mrs Věra Adámková, followed by Mr Vondráček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-24-ps2021-050-05-000-000.u24	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Madam Secretary, gentlemen, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I am asking you today to include two points which I believe are completely problem-free, extra-party, and political, because they concern health again. As always, let me say to my mantra that health is really the most important thing we have, and without that health, we won't even argue here, so let's grow health. The first thing I ask - it may seem to you that it is not related to health, but very closely related - is a point that I would call the Price of Food and Health Care in the Czech Republic. The point is that many diseases, as you well know in the end, even from your families, can either be treated by farms, but they also cannot be treated by farms, so I am thinking, for example, of celiacs. You know that there are quite a lot of people suffering from this, including children, and I have to say that insurance companies are, of course, trying to contribute to these people there in some way, but because of the way food prices are rising, unfortunately, some of these people are becoming unavailable. For your comparison, when I round, and round a lot, kilos of flattened flour, depending on where you buy, climbs around 25, 26 kroner, somewhere cheaper, of course, but the price of gluten-free flour is about 100 kroner. And if you realize that in that family, because it's a tied disease of course, it takes two or three members, it really is a lot. Those people also want to have pie, they also want to have pie like everyone else, and then really, the insurance contribution isn't enough. If you look at how much a gluten-free roll or gluten-free cake costs, these are really prices quite high. Another thing is that about 9 percent of our population has diabetes mellitus. Surely there is no family where you would not meet it, whether in closer or, say, more distant favors. Please note that these diabetics, of course, again, even when taking medication, the basis of everything is a very rational and varied diet and I hear daily in my ambulance that they are starting to have a problem with ensuring especially fresh vegetables, possibly meat. These people are simply starting to have a problem with the treatment of this disease, where the base includes dietary measures, so that there, of course, any increase in food costs leads to a deterioration in their health condition, to an increase in glucose, to a higher incidence of complications, which, unfortunately, can be very, very important. Another disease that we have very often is fat metabolism disorders. Of course, we would also find the mild ones here with many of us, the more serious ones then again lead to the fact that these people have to receive certain food, and the basis of everything at present is a rational diet, which means varied. We don't want any hunger strikes. And once again, these people are beginning to get into the impossibility of fulfilling the doctor's recommendations properly. I'm not even talking about any extraordinary diseases. So this is the first point, the price of food and health care in the Czech Republic. And the second point is again what I've been suggesting here once, and that's the problem that we have with the availability of examination and care by a clinical psychologist, especially at a child's age. At present, and we hear it very often again, it is not exceptional that people simply cannot get a clinical psychologist, it takes six or seven months, we are currently dealing with something like this, which is absolutely unbearable, because in the meantime either the situation will get so bad that unfortunately it will be difficult to help the child in this case - we will certainly help him, but it will be more difficult, it will be more expensive, it will be unnecessarily lengthy, so the second point would be the Information of the Ministry of Health on the availability of clinical psychology. Please, both points I would like to load first and second points after fixed points today, preferably. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-24-ps2021-050-05-000-000.u25	I also thank you for keeping time. Mr Vondráček will wait a little longer because Minister Válek has now signed up with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-24-ps2021-050-05-000-000.u26	I'm sorry, I'm excused from four o'clock because the Board of Providers is at the Ministry of Health. However, I would like to thank you for your assistance to Professor Adámková, Mrs Adámková. Of course, I have no idea whether or not these points will be included, but there will be a health committee at the Ministry of Health that will deal with these points. In the long term, we are dealing with the problem of diet and gluten-free diet and lactose intolerance, and I am glad that many members of the coalition and opposition have been actively involved. We need to thank you for that. [[15.30 hours]] I have created a working group consisting of representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, Labour and Social Affairs, Health and Education, and I believe that we will be able to present the first fruits and results of this group's work on the Health Committee. At the same time, I firmly believe that Members from all the political parties who are on the Board of Directors of the VZP and on other boards will encourage the maximum amount of money from the prevention fund, if possible, to be used primarily for children with celiac, lactose intolerance, but also others. We also have a meeting with representatives of clinical psychologists and other disciplines this week, and here I think this is a topic that we will have to discuss very intensively. I would just like to point out that we have succeeded in a completely groundbreaking matter. In cooperation with the Psychiatric Society and others, we have created an extension course or education at IPVZ, which is open to all experts, where they can increase their qualification in the field of clinical psychology so that the care improves significantly in a very short time and improves its availability. So I wanted to thank you once again, by your means, Madam President, for this very constructive and professional initiative.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-24-ps2021-050-05-000-000.u27	Thank you, Minister. Mr Radek Vondráček is now in office and Mr Nacher will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-24-ps2021-050-05-000-000.u28	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. It worked out again with Patrik that we're going after each other, and I assume we're going to follow up on each other in terms of content. I hope that I will not need even the whole five minutes, but I am speaking at the moment when I learned that there will be no questioning again, and again we will not be able to ask ministers what we would like to hear, and I therefore - first, to simplify this, Madam Vice-President, first of all, I propose a new point, which would be called 'No transparent procedure of government in the fight against misinformation'. And I would really like to be in a situation where we do not have an interpelation, where I do not want to somehow reduce the importance of abolishing obsolete laws, which have been here for 50 years or more and no one needs them, and that we have to deal with this right now - and I just have a very deep feeling that there are more important topics that the Czech society wants to talk about, and you do not allow us to discuss any of these points. And we spent two days here last week because of where your only concern was to push us out of the daylight so that God forbid there wouldn't be a threat to the presidential candidate's candidacy. I have a specific resolution prepared which could be the result of our point and which I will read to you here because I am not naive and I am afraid that once again the government machinery will vote that this point will not be included. This resolution would read: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to present to all its members all the materials on implemented and prepared measures in the area of combating misinformation, in particular its so-called action plan, thus allowing legitimate discussion in the Chamber of Deputies' plenary, taking into account possible threats or restrictions on freedom of expression and the right to information protected by Art. 17 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms." Judge for yourself - at least part of those who have listened - if we really want a lot. We have been learning about various efforts to limit freedom of speech, freedom of expression and the right to information for about a year. The year comes on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on. Now I read an article about how someone observed that it was actually going in several waves, and it was also summarized by someone that it is essentially about the government working on it for a long time and is convinced that the public expression of some opinions is, and I am very mild, problematic and undesirable. And it's like four points, four circles: criminalization of people knowingly spreading misinformation, restricting different websites, using and financing non-governmental nonprofits and financing so-called independent media. As a last piece of information, we learned that such an action plan represents at least the cost of CZK 150 million, where 100 million is to be invested for those independent media. But I'm asking, aren't they pro-government media? If you buy them for $100 million, then where's your independence? And who will decide if, in addition, KRIT's employees write and warn in their materials a little bit naively and uncoverably: Beware that media that are owned or under the influence of the ANO movement should not be caught on the subject. $50 million is due to nonprofits, NGOs. So here I'm asking if they're still non-governmental and non-profit, when all the professionals are there, they're getting a paycheck and they're being paid by the government. All of this is said here by the government coalition with incredible political ease, with the fact that the restriction of freedom of speech is not really a question of the legal issue, which is captured in the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, in the rich case law of the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights. In the last five seconds, I point out again that one day you will set up this bureaucratic propaganda machine and you will never cancel it again. [[Time!]] Thank you. Perhaps for additions, I should include there in the written proposal as the first one today and the alternative as the first one tomorrow. I didn't get to say that. Thank you for your kindness.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-24-ps2021-050-05-000-000.u29	Yes, thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Patrik Nacher will now appear and Mrs Hanzlíková will prepare herself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-24-ps2021-050-05-000-000.u30	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Dear Government, or Minister of Transport only from the government, and there Minister Šalomoun, I apologize, ladies and gentlemen, I will have a classic point that I have wanted to place here several times, and I think the presidential campaign has quite exposed that this is quite a fundamental issue, and that is government information about combating misinformation. That's what I wanted to include last time, that's what I was trying to interpel, for example, the Prime Minister. It turns out that on the one hand, there's misinformation, on the other hand, there's some way that he wants to work with them and he wants to fight them. However, I can't shake the impression that he does so selectively, that some misinformation is running in public space because it's convenient, and other misinformation is impersonating them, while I would say it's uncomfortable information, but it's pretending to be misinformation. And so I would like to know, and it would be fair for ministers to come forward here, such as the Home Secretary, what's going on with the plans, the money for the selected media, because sometimes I feel in the presidential campaign that they're rushing to praise one another and the dehonestation of the other. So I'm wondering if this is related in any way, if it's already some kind of selection process for the funds, so to say with exaggeration how it is with the money for the non-profit sector, what competence KRIT is supposed to have, and actually what kind of people are moving around it all, because when I read the information from Mr. Vrábel, who is dealing with his company here - now I found somewhere that he is no longer there - Semantic Visions, I also found that Mr. Vrábel has a contract and some contracts from the Office of the Government. I also found that he was in an association with one of the candidates, and that is why he is not impartial to me. I'm not saying he doesn't understand, but he's not impartial. So when I read that on the one hand, all the misinformation that's in the public space here is 100% from the one side, almost 100 percent from the one side, and all of us, if we're even a little bit objective, we have to admit that it's not like that. So I'm kind of wondering how much money we're going to put into this, what structure it's going to be, how it's going to be controlled, what kind of people or nonprofit organizations are going to verify it, how they're going to verify it. That's what I think are legitimate things that are now proving to be quite important at the time of the presidential campaign. [[15.40 hours]] And you know that when I was communicating on social networks, I defined myself against all the misinformation I had intercepted, which spread on those social networks, whether it was an imaginary text damaging Andrej Babiš, or it was a edited video of Petr Pavel's harming, so I just don't distinguish it, fall, fall. And here it clearly shows that it's just working here, but at the same time, it's clear here that the government is somewhere secretly preparing some strategies and things that are generally unknown. And it can indeed result in the threat of freedom of speech, the reduction of unpleasant opinions, unpleasant information, not misinformation. And the last request that has to do with it. If you guys don't reschedule, you're just making it seem like you want to keep it a secret. Therefore, you can't be surprised that this could really lead to misinformation about what's going on in those ministries or in the Office of the Government, and it could really be misinformation. But you can't be surprised, because if you don't provide the information, and where else than in the Chamber of Deputies, and it should be the interest of all parties across the political spectrum, so different chimeras will be created, for example, where the basis will be some leaks of information from individual resorts. So I think that if the effort is fair and honest, it should be of interest to the government and to the majority to include it here. So I'll do it again, it's government information on combating misinformation. I'd either put it first today, or, alternatively, tomorrow, I'd do it first. I thank you for your attention and for your support on this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-24-ps2021-050-05-000-000.u31	Thank you, Mr Member, and now Mrs Hanzlíková will come forward and prepare Mr Farhan. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-24-ps2021-050-05-000-000.u32	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to ask for a new point. This item has the title Threatened payment of subsidies in the field of social services, family policy and social law protection of children in connection with systemization from 1. 1. 2023. It's a point I've been trying to place here. In part, I will join my fellow Member, Mr Novák, who also spoke from a certain point of view about this issue, and I will ask for its inclusion mainly because I am still being approached by other and other organisations that provide over-regional social services or services in the field of family policy of seniors or the already mentioned socio-legal protection of children, and express enormous concerns precisely because of the delay in the deadline for payment of individual subsidies. But they also express concern overall about the MPSV situation in the family policy and social services section just after the systemization that took place from 1. 1. 2023. Unfortunately, these organizations are very active in trying to communicate with the Ministry in some way, but the communication is still going on in such a way that their fears have not diminished, but quite the opposite. And so it all comes from the systemization that canceled nine departments, completely illogically divided the competences of one department into several others and destroyed the team of workers who really managed their agenda on a professional level. It is really surprising for me that in this form of systemization it has passed and has been approved by the government, but above all, it has actually been implemented by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs despite all the reservations raised by the opponents at the meeting of the Committee on Social Policy 7. 12 2022 and, despite the resolution adopted at this meeting, which opposed this system and requested the Minister to suspend it until 30. 6. 2023. I must say that the current situation is really critical of over-regional and national social services, because they have had an extremely difficult year to deal with the increase in energy prices, fuel prices and other inputs. These are about 110 organisations that provide services to the most vulnerable groups - seniors, people with disabilities and others who are in adverse social situations. Unfortunately, in addition to this problem, there is a real risk of delays in payment and other subsidies, as I mentioned, from family policy, social work or children's groups. I must point out that in recent years, in essence since 2007, early payment has always been an absolute priority of the MPSV. It is therefore incomprehensible to me that the resolution of the Committee on Social Policy and the warnings of Members did not lead MPSV to reconsider the decision to implement this risk system. With regard to the impact on individual organisations, but above all on their endangered clients, it is such an important issue that I ask you to include a new point and please place it as a second point after the fixed points of today's programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-24-ps2021-050-05-000-000.u33	Thank you, Madame. Mr Farhan will now appear and prepare Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-24-ps2021-050-05-000-000.u34	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear members of the government, I would like to read here a new point concerning the lack of medicine in the Czech Republic, and allow me briefly to comment on it - why I would like it to be included in the House meeting. At present, the Czech health care industry is struggling with a large availability of ordinary medicines, and what position do the competent authorities have on this matter? I believe that the Ministry has simply overslept in this situation. The situation was not addressed with sufficient priority, with sufficient emphasis. As we learned here in the Chamber of Deputies last week, the minister here commended himself for getting some medications during the week. That's commendable, and I think he should be praised for that. On the other hand, what was the minister doing during the first signals in the autumn months of 2022? Why is he making excuses for the global problem today? Whether on television or from available sources, we have that these medicines are only available in Poland, Austria or Germany, where our fellow citizens can secure them. If the Minister is able to resolve the shortage within the week, why didn't he react earlier? Because... I will answer it, or I will try to answer it: because he underestimated this situation, he didn't pay attention to it, he simply overslept. At present, they are putting out the fire and trying to correct the series of errors that arose from its inactivity. This uncontrolled situation forces doctors to prescribe broad-spectrum antibiotics whose high use is not suitable for the disease, for example. Furthermore, there may be a later stretching of these broad-spectrum antibiotics even after the blackouts have ended. In a standard situation, the doctor would choose, for example, a narrow-spectrum antibiotic such as penicillin, where there is a lower risk of adverse events and in the future the development of bacterial resistance. Increased resistance to antibiotics leads to their lower efficacy in the future, for lighting, and this, of course, occurs with excessive use and prescription of these broad-spectrum antibiotics instead of narrow-spectrum antibiotics. In this situation, doctors are more or less forced to enter to address the current problems of the Minister of Health and the ministries that they have not caused themselves. Of course, these undesirable things do not manifest themselves immediately, but with a distance of time. Another example is, for example, when the patient does not receive the drug in the pharmacy and has to return to the doctor to change the prescription because of the availability of a particular medicine. There may also be a situation, for example, where the doctor is no longer available and does not change until the next day, which once again worsens the quality of the treatment and risks certain risks. [[15.50 hours]] I believe that these problems we have here today are due to the inaction of the Minister of Health, and therefore I propose a point which I would call the lack of medicines in the Czech Republic. Madam President, I would ask you to include this point as the last point of today or after the already fixed points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-24-ps2021-050-05-000-000.u35	Thank you for the suggestion. We will decide on the inclusion by vote. Now, Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová, and then Mr Síla will speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-24-ps2021-050-05-000-000.u36	Madam Vice-President, honourable members of the government, colleagues, colleagues, I would like to place an item entitled Government PR at the time of the presidential campaign for taxpayers' money. I'm sure most of you were here last week when we were discussing an emergency meeting of distrust to the government. During the meeting, when we were criticized for calling this meeting, as well as in the social media area, as well as in the subway areas, on public premises, we discovered photographs of our current ministers, which we have historically the most, 17 - you can see that one minister cannot even sit in those areas that are intended to do so, and he has to sit in the premises that are intended for the administration of the House - and where the ministers did not give any advice to citizens or any recommendations to these posters and banners in any way, but they are praising it. For this campaign, the government has paid CZK 30 million, of course from the state budget, and I would like to say that if KDU-ČSL had paid for it, if it had paid the TOP 09 out of its budget, I would not have criticized it, but Mrs Hanzlíková, for example, was here just a moment ago, missing funds in over-regional social services, and they would certainly be very happy to have the 30 million on their own things that they need to provide to old sick people in individual social facilities or people handicapped and others. So this campaign is happening, and I would like to call on the current government to comment on it, because I see it as a so-called double standard - even Patrik Nacher's name - because I would like to say here: you think that if we did this, I say, there's a roar on the village square, as they say, and you all remember this brochure that was supposed to help people go to cancer prevention. [[shows]] On the last page was the Prime Minister, it was before the election, and it was so hello that the brochure didn't come out until after the election. And I would expect the same thing from the current government at the moment, and above all, I would like to comment on the 30 million, how it is taken from the state budget. And I'll show you one of these - we've talked a lot about it here today, the Minister of Health, who asked him to arrive in the Czech Republic during January and February thanks to our negotiations with manufacturers and distributors, almost half a million packages of antibiotics in different groups. So the citizens of the Czech Republic, please don't get wasted, be afraid, I'm afraid my child will get sick, because the medications are about to arrive. So I really consider this very unfair, and I consider it particularly unfair for that reason, because if you look at the current results of the surveys, it is based on the fact that citizens of the Czech Republic, 70 percent of the citizens, are not satisfied with the work of this government, and that is clear fact, and last week this will appear in the media space on social networks. I call on the current government, make your point. I would like to place this point and give two options: either as the first point today or as the first point tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-24-ps2021-050-05-000-000.u37	Thank you, Madame. Mr Síla is now signed in, Mrs Šafránková will prepare herself. Before I give the honourable Member the floor, I shall read the apologies. Bauer Jan apologizes all day - working reasons, Špičák Julius all day - health reasons and Minister Baxa from 18 o'clock for working reasons. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-24-ps2021-050-05-000-000.u38	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to read a new item on the agenda of our meeting, which is a big problem for many people in our Republic. It is the territorial inaccessibility of dentists in the Czech Republic. Roman Šmucler, Chairman of the Stomatological Chamber, says that there are enough dentists and that the development of the dental field at the University of Ostrava is not necessary. I can think of one explanation for his statement, namely the exclusiveness of the field and the fact that demand far exceeds supply, so the cash direct payment system is preferred by dentists and, on the contrary, patients often have to do so with great disapproval. In the Czech Republic, all citizens who pay health insurance honestly have the right to free dental care. Unfortunately, those who are forced to go to a private clinic have no contracts with health insurance companies, and they have to pay for all their care. Not everyone can afford that luxury. The number of dental practitioners is distributed very irregularly for the Republic, with about 700 inhabitants per dentist in Prague and 1,600 to 1,700 inhabitants in the Ústecký or Moravian-Silesian Region. Unfortunately, doctors do not have a legal obligation to conclude contracts with health insurance companies. There is also no legal way to get dentists to take more patients, or to convince them to open their practices in the outskirts of regions, and not just in large cities. The regions do not have hundreds of millions to substitute the role of health insurance companies, while the regional authorities have no option but no obligation to address the availability of medical care. It's entirely up to health insurance companies. An exception is dental emergency service, which the region pays for, for example, only in the district of Ostrava every year 3.5 million crowns. The Catholic Office of the Moravian-Silesian Region and the City of Ostrava significantly supported the emergence of a new field of dental medicine at the local faculty. There's just not enough dentists to prove it by numbers. Last year 22 dentists completed their practice in the Moravian-Silesian Region and only 12 opened new practice. In addition, the number of patients in the care of older dentists and the number of young beginning dentists varies significantly. While older dentists still have over 2,000 cards, young people can handle less than a thousand. This fact is based on significant changes in modern care - technology is more sophisticated, procedures are more complex and time-consuming. I can give you the exact numbers. In the Moravian-Silesian Region there are 606 providers of health services in the field of dental medicine, including hospitals. Of which, 70 doctors over the age of 70, another 150 over the age of 60. These dentists will be quitting their practice in the foreseeable future. The Regional Authority of the Moravian-Silesian Region has 157,000 cards of patients who have found themselves without a dentist in recent years. The lack of dentists is simply an indisputable fact, which suffers patients not only in the region, but outside Prague, Olomouc and Plzeň virtually all regions. The need to address the availability of dental care is very urgent. [[16.00 hours]] The lack of dentists, and this applies to other medical specialists in the border areas of the Republic, has two causes. It is an absolute lack of doctors, dentists and other specialists first and secondly, it is an increase in the so-called involvement of patients, where health insurance companies, for example, pay dentists only the cheapest basic treatment. Graduates of medicine and nurses in the Czech Republic have lost more than a third in 30 years. It will take fifteen years for the state to be completed at the level of 1985, the President of the Association of Czech and Moravian Hospitals, Eduard Sohlich, Sohlich. This is the result of an attempt to commercialise the health of all right-wing governments since 1989, starting with Mr Klaus' government, when the voluntarist liquidation of a functioning health-care based on the existence of a first-to-third-type hospital system has taken place, without a plan to what will happen next. In the last parliamentary term, the ANO 2011 movement, the five-calice, has also been trying to do the same in secret. Since health care is a strong policy, the leadership of the ANO movement has learned from the failure of the ODS, which lost the election for a 30 Crown fee, and therefore Mr Babiš has chosen a more sophisticated method, optimizing the closure or closure of functioning hospitals. Optimization means a deterioration in the availability of healthcare so that people can learn to pay for this service. 30 years before the coup in 1989, the best treatment possible for all residents of the Czech Republic was practically free of charge. That's why people are now rebelling to pay for what they didn't have to pay for. When the generations that remember health care die out before 1989, and when people realize that they have no choice but to pay for health services, the withdrawal of dentistry from public health insurance will follow. As an example of a country where health care is virtually completely commercialized, the United States does not have 100 million people for dental care insurance and Medicaid, which is state insurance for poor and homeless people, only pays for tooth tearing. In the United States, 43 percent of people's personal bankruptcies are caused by health care payments. Few of us realize what a huge advantage it is to have general health insurance, which is solidarity. In essence, everyone is sure that he will be treated if necessary without having to study complex insurance plans that cover or cover everything. It is precisely this certainty that we are about to lose to, for example, the Američan or the Holanďan. If that happens, then it will be an almost irreversible step. Therefore, let us not let general health insurance be stolen and allow politicians to take irreversible steps. The current graduates of the dental faculty are trained to provide up-to-date modern treatments at the current level of science. Unfortunately, health insurance does not fully cover this quality treatment. Money comes first. Young dentists do not often want to work by obsolete methods at screwed-up prices of health insurance companies, and therefore often do not conclude contracts with them and work so-called cash. There's about a thousand dentists like that. This is why dentists look for areas where people are solvent to pay for quality care from their own pockets, which are rich cities where dentists, namely Prague, Brno, Olomouc. In border areas in the east of the Republic they could mostly provide only basal care and thus could not apply modern treatment methods that they learned at faculties. That is the second reason why there is a shortage not only of dentists in these poor areas. Thank you for your attention. I'd like to put this point first tomorrow.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-24-ps2021-050-05-000-000.u39	Yes, thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Šafránková is now registered. The MP is logged in three times in a row, so you'll be... [[Mrs Saffrank off the microphone: Once, but I have three points.]] Yes, you're proposing three points. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-24-ps2021-050-05-000-000.u40	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose that the agenda of this meeting be put in place for the discussion of paragraph 25, which is House press number 9, the amendment to the Social Services Act. This is a proposal to increase the care allowance for disabled citizens in the first and second levels of addiction, which last increased seven years ago. In December, here in the House, you, the Members of the Government, did not apply to your voting facilities, although you were present in the hall knowingly and intentionally blocked the possibility of discussing this law properly at first reading, even though you know well that the government amendment to the payment decree has again increased the prices of social services for disabled citizens since January, making them completely unavailable for many of them and will lead not only to a deterioration in the quality of their lives, but also to a deterioration in their health status. I propose to include this item as the second item in today's negotiations, or as the first item in tomorrow's Wednesday's agenda. For similar reasons, I would also like to propose that paragraph 76, which is the House press 266, amends the Act on State Social Support. This is a proposal to increase the parental contribution from CZK 300,000 to CZK 360,000 and introduce its automatic valorisation directly into the law. Families with the smallest children are one of the most endangered social groups, which is all the more true now, at a time of record annual inflation, which brings the real value of the parental contribution far below its 2020 level, when it was last raised, and the government is unable to submit a bill to increase it itself. I propose to include this item as the third item in today's negotiations, or as the second item in the Wednesday programme tomorrow. Finally, I propose to include an extraordinary point called Lack of Workers on OSPOD, an institution of social-law protection for children. This is an acute issue of the critical lack of social workers in the area of care for vulnerable children, especially within municipal and regional authorities. Even the Ombudsman's office, the Ombudsman, warns that the institutions of social-law protection for children are at the edge of their options. In particular, this is a catastrophic shortage of qualified workers and an overload of existing social workers in this field of public service, where, in some regions, they are responsible for twice the number of families than standards allowing good care and prevention, supervision of judicial supervision. It is a failure of the political leadership of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, which threatens the system of care for vulnerable children. And I propose that this item be included as the third item of the Wednesday programme tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-24-ps2021-050-05-000-000.u41	Thank you, Madame. Mr Brázdil is now signed in, and Mrs Štefanová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-24-ps2021-050-05-000-000.u42	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, allow me to propose a new point. I've already said it here once, and I haven't been heard, a point called Medical Rescue of the Czech Republic. This point, please, is presented by me, but everything is spoken for, arranged, intended by Minister Válek. Like now, the transformation is about to take place in one group of Czech Hygienic Services, so completely, I would say through the copy, it would be possible to solve just and complete the transformation of the Medical Rescue Service. Perhaps some of you remember that it started at individual arses, hospitals, then in the districts, then there was the health care rescue centers, which was partly managed by the Ministry. Then the regions actually created medical rescue services of fourteen regions and there is no step, a small step to the transformation to be completed exactly the same as the Police of the Czech Republic, such as the Fire Rescue Corps of the Czech Republic, to be the same with the health rescue service. [[16.10 hours]] You remember recently, of course, what it looked like during the covid. The coordination of 14 regions - you will certainly give me for real - will be completely different from that of firemen and cops when we are 14 times different. And 14 different times means that there's really 14 different paid people, otherwise dressed, otherwise equipped with ambulance vehicles. Although the law is one, though the regions do their own kind of folk creativity according to their own. How is a patient supposed to come to this, one of you, if something happens during a transport from Ostrava, perhaps in the Highlands, and there is a rescue service otherwise organized with another commuter time? How many times a doctor may arrive, i.e. in the rendez-vous car system or in a large vehicle or without a doctor. It just has a really big convention. And believe me, I'm not just speaking for myself with 30 years of practice, but for - and now I don't want to say all - but I'd say about 90 percent of the paramedics. Envy, and that's another thing, of course, works among people. They say to themselves: how is it that a person for the same job, often less work, takes other money in that county, and in another region it's different, and yet I get more exits? Please, all of this and many other things would be solved. There would be a medical rescue service in the Czech Republic, it would be coordinated from one place, it would be saved a lot, but a lot, a lot of money in that even the selection procedures that today are - you probably know what the fire department vehicle looks like, she's about the same, they have almost the same equipment, and so the firefighter doesn't care if he jumps into the vehicle of this or that region. But we don't have it that way. You've noticed that these vehicles are really from Volkswagens, various Mercedes, and so on, in other words, this selection of clothing, equipment, everything would be from one center. Yes, you say, "We don't want that, we don't want to centralize everything here anymore." - Oh, please, we only have one health, and they should be cared for, should be cared for as well. In such a tiny country of 14 counties, 14 different things. And I would like you to think about it, and to think about it with a little discussion, she won't be long, and maybe the Minister will say what he intends. We, a few paramedics, are going to have a proposal, and then we're going to have a legislative process. So, Madam President, please, if you would note the inclusion of a new point in the Health and Safety Service of the Czech Republic, a discussion on this subject. And I don't want to, I don't want to go anywhere tight. I don't want you to say it, so it's gonna get longer again. Just put it in. And that alone may not be until tomorrow, if the time has come, so feel free to put it in the last place. And maybe after consulting with the Minister, he'll say if he wants it there or onde, and maybe the coalition will meet him. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-24-ps2021-050-05-000-000.u43	Thank you, too. Mrs Štefanová is now signed in, Mr Zlínský will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-24-ps2021-050-05-000-000.u44	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to propose to include a new point at the House meeting, a point called the lack of medicines in the Czech Republic. For months, people have been struggling with a shortage of basic medicines, and they have to go around several pharmacies, often tens of miles apart. However, hospitals and other medical facilities have reported certain problems. The members of the SPD have included this issue in their interventions to the Minister of Health, but there are no interpelations this week, and I think it is such a serious subject that it is necessary to discuss it here at the House plenary at a proper meeting. That is why I want to place this issue as a separate point so that we can discuss it here, what the current situation is, how long it will last, and what will be next, so that the Minister of Health here can introduce to us what concrete steps he is taking in order not to repeat this situation, how the monitoring of supplies of pharmacies and warehouses and the monitoring of production and supplies is being addressed. If SÚKL reports that nothing is going on, everything is fine and only a few weeks later there is a blackout of basic drugs, it is not possible to do it this way or import drugs extra after several weeks are missing. Furthermore, the production of drugs in the Czech Republic and the production of various forms of pharmaceuticals from components directly in pharmacies need to be encouraged as much as possible. Even there, I wonder what steps the Ministry is taking and whether it is also addressing this page, i.e. supporting the independence of the Czech Republic in this respect. Therefore, I would like to include this point as item number 1 at today's meeting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-24-ps2021-050-05-000-000.u45	Thank you, Madame. Mr Zlínský is now in office, Mrs Pošarová will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-24-ps2021-050-05-000-000.u46	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I also have a proposal for the inclusion of a new item in the programme, and that item would be called a discussion on the proposal for a regulation of the European Union - a European space for health data. I already mentioned it here in my last speech. The Minister of Health Válek, who said something in the sense that this is a proposal, which is true that this is not yet a finished work, has also responded, but I would point out that this is a regulation of the European Union, so I think it is high time that we started discussing this in order to point out, where appropriate, the shortcomings of this regulation. My--what I'm going to say here-- the text is quite dense and difficult to understand-- there are a lot of complicated terms in it. I will try to explain some, but I am based on this regulation of the European Union, where the concepts are similarly used. European Health Area...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-24-ps2021-050-05-000-000.u47	Ambassador, I am so sorry to disturb you. I'd like the corner on the left to lower his conversations a little bit. You're disturbing the MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-24-ps2021-050-05-000-000.u48	So once again, the European Space for Health Data - and so I point out that this is important, it will apply to everyone - is to be the first area for European Data. There will be a lot of the disciplines involved, from energy to agriculture, but the first one triggers it or is to run it on health care. It is intended to share all health data within the Czech Republic, but also in a pan-European space, not only among health institutions, but also for the use of regulatory bodies of state, European and also for research teams in our country, Europe, but also in the world. Everything is intended to improve health care for patients and to develop new treatment methods based on the processing of this data by means of artificial intelligence in the alleged preservation of the safety of these data. The scope of data to be shared for regulatory and innovative processes is very wide. I'll mention what's going on here, so pay attention. This should cover not only data from health records, but also data with an impact on human health including social factors, environmental effects, behaviour of individuals and groups of inhabitants, genomic data on pathogens with an impact on human health, that is, that is, the composition of genes of individual pathogens. And most importantly, it's supposed to relate to genetic, genomic and proteomic data relating to people, people. So let me explain. Genetic data, it's actually a genetic code, it's the individual letters of the genetic code. Basically, think of it as if you had a foreign language and without individual spaces between words you would just see a change of letters. Genomic data - imagine it as if you've seen any words, between them gaps, these are the individual genes, but there's still the problem that we know, let's say, the words, but we don't often know the context. That's actually why artificial intelligence is to be used to give the context of many genes, as it manifests itself in some function of man or pathology to be found. So that's what he wanted to explain to you to find out how important this is. [[16.20 hours]] The genetic and genomic data of persons, groups of people and ultimately defined populations are so sensitive and intimate that they cannot in any way be provided to anyone for use without a clear explanation of what they should be used for and what they could be used for. It is therefore imperative to obtain consent to their provision, and now listen, not only from those concerned, but also from genetic relatives. I'm not having this conversation anymore. I will just say here that, for this reason, I propose this item for discussion of this honourable House, as I would like to hear the views of other Members and Ministers who are interested in this extremely important issue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-24-ps2021-050-05-000-000.u49	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'd just like to clarify the point that was the discussion on the draft regulation... if you could please use the microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-24-ps2021-050-05-000-000.u50	Discussion on the proposal for a regulation of the European Union on the European Area for Health Data.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-24-ps2021-050-05-000-000.u51	Yes, thank you, and are you suggesting we place it firmly? Interested?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-24-ps2021-050-05-000-000.u52	You can also give it to Mr Brázdil for his proposal, that is, to the end.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-24-ps2021-050-05-000-000.u53	Okay, well, you're suggesting we put this as the last item in the program. Mrs Pošarová will now appear, Mr Juchelka will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-24-ps2021-050-05-000-000.u54	Thank you for the floor. I propose to put a new item on the agenda of this meeting entitled Information of the Government and of the Minister of Industry and Trade on how specifically the extremely high price of electricity for Czech consumers arises. Ladies and gentlemen, we all seem to agree that electricity is not a common commodity, and it cannot be stored standardly in large quantities. Therefore, neither is physical energy sold on the commodity exchange itself, but vouchers for the subsequent supply of a certain amount of electricity that is further traded. An example is ČEZ, which sold most of its power electricity this year from 2020 to the end of 2022 on a bilateral basis abroad, at an average price of CZK 2.60 per kilowatt hour. At the same time, ČEZ Sales only buys the same electricity at a different price, several times higher. The final customers' invoice then shows the resulting price of over CZK 9 per kilowatt hour of power electricity, with the customer paying the price ceiling of CZK 6 and the difference paid by the supplier by the state of taxes to all of us. At the same time, the difference between how much kilowatt hour CEZ sells power electricity to customers under bilateral international agreements and how much CEZ sells it to Czech consumers is more than CZK 6 per kilowatt hour. It's a question of where and who the difference remains. Until 2001, including all electricity supply prices were regulated. Since 2002, the liberalisation resulting from our future membership of the European Union, which was fully completed on 1 January 2006. In light of recent developments and the enormous unjustified increase in electricity prices for Czech customers, I believe that we should go back to regulating electricity prices, to the fullest extent, including its commercial, yet unregulated component. For this reason, I propose to include this point as the third item in the House's agenda for today's meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-24-ps2021-050-05-000-000.u55	Thank you, Madame. Mr Juchelka is now signed in and Mr Kolovratník will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-24-ps2021-050-05-000-000.u56	Thank you very much, Madam President. I've got here, and I'll be shorter than my colleagues, or I'll make it in five minutes, quite simply. What Mr Novák has already said here, Mrs Hanzlíková, about the endangered payout of over-regional social services - we pointed out at the Committee on Social Policy at the beginning of December and, of course, it also passed through the resolution that Members of the Committee on Social Policy disagreed with the MPSV's systemization, stating that there was no rational justification for assessing the current performance of the agenda and the need for them to move, including the economic evaluation and impact on the state budget, and asked the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, who sits behind me to postpone the systemization to 1. 7. 2023. All Members voted in favour of this, including members of the Government Coalition. And what happened? Systemization has, of course, been carried out, the recommendations of the Committee on Social Policy have not been accepted, and at this point dozens of B organisations are responding, which are paid directly from the state budget, that due to this systemization they will not receive money before mid-May. What does that mean? This means that dozens of social service providers and hundreds of thousands of their clients are in danger. It means that 200,000 of these clients and maybe 1,800 employees are at risk of leaving the social services sector. We can always say that in recent years, that is to say, every year since 2014, the dates have been announced or have been announced to service providers before the end of the year, so that they know the social services on which they are, that is, October, November, or December at the most. But at this point, we have the end of January, and social services over-regionally do not know what will happen to them in the future. The methodology based on legal analysis is illegal, unacceptable and extremely dangerous, as some lawyers write. And then even some of these superregional social services might have to go under the regional network, which I don't think has been discussed with the authorities either. So I just want to open this point here, because it's really hundreds of thousands of clients, hundreds of employees in these social services, because, of course, clients are at risk. And we're not just talking about seniors, disabled and refugees. For example, we also talk about dying people, because there are hospices involved. We are really talking about the most vulnerable in the Czech Republic. For example, it is said that she should fall out of this program as one of the priorities of palliative care. So I'm asking, why aren't we just doing the systemization at this point in the course of this year, but why are we doing this rashly and putting all social service providers in great danger, not just in terms of their future? This means longer-term challenges, but also in terms of the short-term future, which means how they will be financed this year. They don't even get any guarantees from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to take a bridge loan, because they simply don't have this mandate here. So I think that my fellow Members, together with me, it is the third time that we are calling for this point to be opened, and I firmly believe that we will open it and that we can discuss what vision I have of the MPSV right here with these supraregional organisations, and why it is doing this here in haste, why it puts clients in danger and employees of social services as well, and I would like to include it as the first point today or as the second point tomorrow. The name is Threatening the payout of over-regional social services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-24-ps2021-050-05-000-000.u57	Very good, Mr. Ambassador, thank you for your clarification. Mr Kolovratník will now appear and prepare Mrs Dražilová. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-24-ps2021-050-05-000-000.u58	Hello, thank you for your word. Good afternoon, colleagues, today I come up with a proposal to include a new point and its firm inclusion. This point concerns the Department of Transport and I called it the Uncertain Budget of the Ministry of Transport and the threat of infrastructure construction. The situation, my friends, is and is becoming very serious, indeed very serious. I'll explain what's going on. Since the autumn months of last year, from the moment of discussion of both the state budget and the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure, we have heard nice new figures about how we have record amounts of money in transport, CZK 159.9 billion. It's a record amount. I, too, noted and acknowledged in my public speeches that if the amount was respected by the government coalition, this is a really big and good number that follows the trend and the pace that the government prepared and set for the ANO movement. But it has one big, big hook, and it has a hook under it, or above it, as you take it, number 30.7 billion crowns, 30.7 billion, i.e. practically a fifth, 20 percent of the total allocation. Since autumn months, both the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Transport have stated and explained that this amount will be secured - I quote - in the form of other financial instruments, namely the credit of the European Investment Bank, and following the upcoming amendment of the law also by means of bonds financed by the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure. I will remind you that in public speeches, the President of the National Budget Board, Mojmír Hampl, criticized the accounting trick here, and I will quote again for the record: "If the real expenditure on transport infrastructure were, as we think, properly part of the state budget, the deficit would be 30 billion higher," clearly the President of the National Budget Board. And in order to prove it on specific figures that I have a problem and that are simply not solved, and I believe that we need to discuss them here, they are specific indicators of the state budget and the follow-up budget of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure. In this document, the official, government and House approved document, Chapter 327 of the Ministry of Transport, we read on the line Grants for the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure, I will round it up, CZK 92.3 billion. So the state, each of you knows the simple sentence, has given - He gave in accounting, i.e. the state on one side counts 92.3 billion, but beware, the State Fund on the revenue page on its respective line calculates with the amount of 123.3 billion, i.e. exactly after rounding those CZK 30.7 billion there is missing. Why do I suggest we talk about this? I don't want to say the word I want to say, why I propose to talk about it and ask, I allow myself to ask the House to discuss this subject with both Minister Martin Kupka and Minister Zbyněk Stanjura, is the fact that the biggest investors, namely Railway Administration and Road and Motorway Directorate, have been instructed by the Ministry today and the SFDI to budget and, let's say, to spend the entire amount, all those after deduction of some smaller expenses of almost 150 billion. With the ŘSD, it's 65,5 billion, with the 70.4 Railway Administration. My friends, if this amount doesn't fall, if the government doesn't secure it and doesn't get it, I warn you that ŘSD would lose almost a third of its budget, it's CZK 21.1 billion, and the Railway Administration would lose CZK 9.5 billion when the directors of these organizations are already scheduled to use the funds. The government document said: "The structure and parameters of financing will be submitted to the government for approval." It is also true that Zbyněk Stanjura informed that when he knew the terms of the loan, that he would discuss it, that he would discuss it both in the government and with us, but I warn you, we have almost the end of January, no one knows the parameters of the loan, and state investors already have planned commitments, contracts and investments in this spirit. So I say and say that the financing of transport infrastructure is at risk. Therefore, Madam President, please and I propose that we include this new item called the Uncertain Budget of the Ministry of Transport and the Threat of Construction, and please place that item on Wednesday tomorrow as the first point at 9 a.m. I believe that if the ministers are ready, we can have him explained and resolved in 20 minutes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-24-ps2021-050-05-000-000.u59	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for keeping time. Mrs Dražilová will now appear, Mr Tureček will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-24-ps2021-050-05-000-000.u60	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Since we have learned that the House is not supposed to solve any of the fundamental problems that are bothering citizens this week, so allow me, too, to speak with a request for the inclusion of a point entitled Solution to the Consequences of Government Disbelief against Seniors. To begin with, I would like to mention a few figures. According to a recent study of the Invisible Project, we could read that almost 900,000 Čech are among the so-called invisible seniors, i.e. those who have trouble paying for their livelihood and at the same time fall under the state aid system. They deal with loneliness, income poverty, or even resign from their lives. To make matters worse, record inflation has led to the fact that more and more retirees will not succeed even with their pension. However, it is not just one study, of course there are more. For example, another says that 47 percent of pensioners suffer from excessive housing expenditure. Nearly 40 percent of seniors are trying to save where they can go with their finances. They live an undignified life and are reluctant to say for help. Fortunately, we have various social organisations that seek out these seniors, which help them, but, as we have heard from my colleagues who spoke before me, there is another problem, namely that dozens of organizations are at risk of being late. I could say a lot more of the same data and numbers here. It's a huge problem, because the situation of seniors is alarming, it's really getting worse, and you need to know, because you're definitely getting the same e-mails as I am. The government defends its inaction by always reminding all of us that it has validated pensions, so no one has anything to complain about. But I have to point out here that, in fact, it equals the price increase with a few months' delay and that the valorisation of several hundred crowns will by no means catch up on the cost of housing that is rising by thousands of crowns. Minister Jurečka has told us that there will be further valorisation, but we can hear with this that there is a slowing down of pension valorization. But it's not just about the money. It is wrong that this government and its Members are constantly suggesting by their statements that the seniors are actually something very expensive for our state. I just said it wasn't just about the money. We hear how overloaded the lines are to help the elderly, and we know very well that not everyone is using them, some even don't know about their existence. The seniors are desperate and worried about their future. And I would like to point out here that for most of the things that we have here, the seniors have just earned. In cultural and Western societies, it is customary to express thanks to these people, and I will mention here the sentence that we all know that an advanced state can be recognized by how it helps seniors, how it cares for their seniors, that they will not fall and be referred to as a problem. The government was suffocating before and after the elections to move us to the West, but the countries west of us are now doing their utmost in times of crisis and uncertainty to maintain social reconciliation. Yes, they do it at the expense of spending more. For example, Germany has thus supported the available public transport, which is why it helps seniors and families with children to achieve basic living standards, just as Nordic countries do. All of this is the exact opposite of what the Czech government is doing, which, on the contrary, is trying to save money on pensions and is not looking for ways to simplify their problems. The government is taking advantage of the fact that the seniors have no strong lobbyist group behind them that would force them to do it, and it relies on the fact that the seniors are willing to make the most of themselves. But not only do I disagree with this model of reasoning. Their situation is alarming, and that is why I would like the House to start dealing with this situation immediately and to open it as a new point of action. I would ask that this point be included as already firmly approved points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-24-ps2021-050-05-000-000.u61	Thank you, Madame. The second-to-last Member of Parliament of Tureček will now appear. Mrs Pastuchová is the last to be logged in so far. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-24-ps2021-050-05-000-000.u62	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Colleagues and colleagues, I will be able to contact you again with a request for the inclusion of the Information of the Government of the Czech Republic on the current disease situation in the Czech Republic in livestock farming and I am actually led to the event of the last two months when the disease situation has deteriorated especially in poultry farming, but also in pig farming. This, of course, has a very negative impact on the reduction of the competitiveness of Czech agriculture, the reduction of food self-sufficiency in the Czech Republic, and, last but not least, it is another pressure now to increase enormously food prices, when on average food prices rise by around 60 percent, unfortunately in poultry farming, for eggs it is about 92 percent, and in poultry meat it is 60 percent. Unfortunately, I regret to say that the Czech government, Petr Fiala's government, has been treating Czech agriculture since the very beginning of Macesian and has been able to do so with the so-called funds in the Cancer Fund, when it has radically reduced the funds by about 500 million for 2023. What more? Of course, the current disease situation carries with it considerable costs for the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture - the obligation follows from European legislation - and it is about compensation for breeders under preventive veterinary measures. I must stress that under this title, the Ministry of Agriculture has only CZK 50 million and only the costs of the destruction of poultry farming in Tachov region will require more than CZK 200 million, so in terms of this the government is missing approximately CZK 300 to 350 million to date, and the situation will be even worse. Of course, in this regard I must point out that in the commodity poultry - poultry meat, this also has a negative impact on the reduction of self-sufficiency of the Czech Republic. For example, eggs at 1. 1. 2023 The Czech Republic was self-sufficient of about 86 percent, but this number is dropping rapidly and over 70 percent is slowly approaching 60 to 65 percent in two months. So I would like to hear a clear signal from the government on how to address this situation and how to help breeders, but also citizens of the Czech Republic in terms of stabilizing food prices, and especially the stabilisation of prices in the poultry commodity - poultry meat, so I would like to ask the Government of the Czech Republic for information on the current disease situation in livestock farming in the Czech Republic and I would like to place this point firmly at tomorrow's meeting as a second point from 9 a.m. tomorrow. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-24-ps2021-050-05-000-000.u63	I'm just not sure, Mr. Ambassador, if it's going to be the second point since 9. In case there's a first point... [[A Member of the Turks points to the right of his seat.]] As a second point without putting time, would it go this way? [[A Member of the Turks agrees.]] Okay, thank you. And now we have the last Mrs. Jana Pastuchová registered. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-24-ps2021-050-05-000-000.u64	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. So I, like my other colleagues, who have said here that we do not understand much when the coalition government accused us of spending two days here in an extraordinary meeting, that we have other important points for the citizens that we should be dealing with, so it reduced this week by two days, two and a half days, as is its custom, because Wednesday is not working here. Now that we're all looking at the agenda for this meeting, let's say what the contents of this meeting are - nothing at all to help these citizens. Because there won't be interpelations - I've got a written interpelation that deals with health department clearances as confidential - I won't know either. As my first point, I wanted to propose, which was done by our president of our club after a unanimous agreement at our club, and that was to be the point of the Apology of the Secretary of Defense, which said that we are all slaves of Mr Babiš. I would just like to say that I am a Member of the Liberec Region, which has been elected by the citizens, therefore I am no slave of Mr Babiš. And I don't think a woman should express herself like that. [[Let's hear it for members of the YES.]] And now for my point. I'd like to get back to the subject we discussed last year. I also proposed it here last time, and by the fact that Minister Jurečka here praised what he had done, but the debate was not open, so we could not respond to it, we could not ask questions, so I will beg for a point again, namely the current situation at the Labour Offices. I think that in two minutes and thirty seconds I cannot read it all, but the point is that repeatedly, repeatedly, I would like to know the answer from the Minister, what is the specific situation at the Labour Offices now, because we have been bragging about how wages and rewards have increased during his work, as has been reflected in the Labour Offices since January. I'd like to ask him if he's succeeding in occupying vacant posts, and what I have information, that's not really the case. While the Minister admitted that he is aware that the situation is not 100%, he said that out of 1,700 clients in employment offices who are losing a month asking for some form of social assistance, 98 percent of these applicants are being paid by the State on time... [[Noise in the hall.]] Madam Vice-President, I would like to ask - I know that all the coalitions are going to the vote, until now they are not interested - so calm. [[President: Yes, I see it.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-24-ps2021-050-05-000-000.u65	Yes, I see it, so please all who are coming to keep the peace that has been here before, and please keep it down so that the Member can make her proposal. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-24-ps2021-050-05-000-000.u66	I'll just give you a reason, I've already told you the title, the Minister has already arrived after two hours since we've been here, and I'm asking: if the number of contributions has increased, does the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs take into account the crazy increase in the volume of work for employees of the employment offices. If, in 2021, the number of applications was 233 000 and 332 000 a year later, I think that is a question for discussion. I don't have much time, I think I suggested the same point last time. I know the members of the coalition didn't sit here, they didn't listen, just like the Minister did. The Minister has praised himself here, unfortunately, without the possibility of a debate. So please also include this item in the agenda at this meeting, because if you really look at the agenda of today's and tomorrow's meetings without the possibility of Thursday's interventions, so that we don't happen to run into a sensitive topic, so you don't solve this week, which is a proper Chamber of Deputies, which is proper - you cut it by two days, you don't solve anything for people there!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-24-ps2021-050-05-000-000.u67	Thank you, Madame. I'm asking if anyone else is applying to change the approved program of the 50th meeting? It's not like that. We would therefore now proceed to the vote on the proposals. First of all, we would vote on proposals from the Gremium. Before that, I'm gonna call in my coworkers and my coworkers from the lobby, and I'm gonna ask... [[Knocking on the desks.]] Yes, I've logged the logout application, so I'm going to check you all out, and I'm going to ask you to log in with your I.D. cards. [[Noise in the hall.]] I'm gonna go on and wait for the number of entries to settle. If there is no objection, we would vote on the proposals from the Gremium at once. I don't see any objection. We'll wait a little while longer for the number of applicants to settle. I'm voting on this proposal from the Gremium, and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 83, 167 Members and Members, in favour of 166, against 1. The motion was accepted. We will therefore now vote on the individual proposals as they have been said. The first proposal was the proposal by President Schillerová, who proposes to include a new item in the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs confirmed missing pension money. Isn't that right? I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 84, 171 Members and Members voted in favour of 77, against 90. The proposal was rejected, so we will no longer vote on its firm inclusion. The second proposal by President Schillerová was the inclusion of a new item, which is the abolition of 10% of the VAT rate. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 85, 171 Members and Members voted in favour of 79, against 87. The motion was denied. The third proposal by President Schillerová is a proposal for a new point, which reads: Apology of Secretary of Defense Jana Černochová. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 86, 172 Members of Parliament signed in for 78, against 91. The motion was denied. Another proposal is the proposal by President Okamura, proposing to include a new point in the Asocial Purple Government's desire to increase people's water, infant food, beer, medicines, books and other essential needs. [[The noise in the room doesn't stop.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Calm down, please! Who's against it? Voting number 87, 172 Members and Members voted in favour of 76, against 90. The motion was denied. President Okamura proposed to include a new point, which is: the Czech Republic is the only country in the European Union due to the Fialův Government, which reduced government debt last year. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? [[Call from the desks: Raised!]] I'm sorry for saying the father's wish. Yes, I'm sorry. I declare this vote (number 88) confusing, and I apologise once again to the President for my misfortune. So once again, I will read the title of this point: the Czech Republic is the only country in the European Union that increased national debt due to the Fialův Government last year. Initiating... Is that okay? . Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? [[Members call from the bench: Yes!]] Who's against it? Voting number 89, 173 Members and Members of Parliament voted in favour of 76, against 92. The motion was denied. President Radim Fiala proposes to include a new point, which is: Petr Fiala's government cannot handle the energy crisis. Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 90, 173 Members and Members signed in for 78, against 92. The motion was denied. Vice-President Dostálová proposes to include a new point, which reads: Housing support. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 91, 173 Members and Members signed in for 79, versus 87. The motion was denied. Vice-President Havlíček proposes a new point: the impact of climate measures on households and companies. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 92, 173 Members and Members voted in favour of 80, against 89. The motion was denied. Mr Novák proposes a new point: Information from the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka on the effects of systemization on the payment of social benefits for families and social services. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 93, 173 Members and Members voted in favour of 79, versus 88. The motion was denied. [[17,00 hours]] Mr Stržínek proposes to include a new point, which reads: Fair distribution of taxes to individual regions. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 94, 173 Members and Members of Parliament voted in favour of 78, versus 84. The motion was denied. Mrs Adámková proposes to include a new item in the Food and Health Care Prize in the Czech Republic. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 95, 173 Members and Members signed in for 78, versus 88. The motion was denied. The next item proposed by Mrs Adámková is the item entitled Information by the Minister for Health on the Security of Clinical Psychology. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 96, 173 Members and Members of Parliament signed up, for 78, against 81. The motion was denied. Mr Vondráček proposes to include a new point, which reads: A non-discriminatory process of government in the fight against misinformation. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 97, 173 Members and Members of Parliament signed up, for 78, against 91. The motion was denied. Mr Nacher proposes to include a new point which reads: Government information on combating misinformation. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 98, 173 Members of Parliament signed up for 78, versus 86. The motion was denied. Mrs Hanzlíková proposes to include a new point, which reads: The threat of payment of subsidies in the field of social services, family policy and social law protection of children in connection with systemization from 1. 1. 2023. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 99, 173 Members and Members signed in, for 79, against 90. The motion was denied. Mr Farhan proposes a new point, which reads: Lack of medicines in the Czech Republic. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 100, 173 Members and Members signed in for 78, versus 83. The motion was denied. Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová proposes a new item of the Government's PR at the time of the presidential elections for taxpayers' money. Isn't that right, Madam? [[Yes.]] Yes, thank you. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Calm down, please. Voting number 101, 173 Members of Parliament signed up for 78, versus 94. The motion was denied. Mr Síla proposes to include a new point, which is: the lack of dentists. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 102, 173 Members of Parliament signed up for 78, versus 84. The motion was denied. Mrs Šafránková proposes that item 25, House press 9, which is an amendment to the Social Services Act, should be included - and there are two options on which we will vote separately. First, he wants to move this point as a second point to today's day. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 103, 173 Members of Parliament signed in, for 77, against 91. The motion was denied. In the second variant, the honourable Member proposes to include this point as item number 1 tomorrow, i.e. Wednesday. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 104, 174 Members and Members of Parliament signed up, for 80, against 90. The motion was denied. As the third point, Mrs Šafránková proposes item 76, House press 266, which is the amendment to the Act on State Social Support, to include as the third point on today, and then has another option. We will now vote on the first option. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 105, 174 Members and Members signed up, for 80, against 89. The motion was denied. The second option is to include item 76, House press 266, for tomorrow also as the third point, Madame, please? You're proposing a third point for tomorrow, yes. I'm putting this option to a vote. I ask, who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 106, 174 Members and Members signed in for 80, against 91. The motion was denied. [[17.10 hours]] Mrs Šafránková also proposes a new point, which reads: Lack of workers on the OSPOD. Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 107, 174 Members and Members of Parliament signed up, for 80, against 87. The motion was denied. Mr Brázdil proposes a new point, which reads: Health Rescue Service of the Czech Republic. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 108, 174 Members of Parliament signed up, for 79, against 92. The motion was denied. Mrs Štefanová proposes a new point, which reads: The lack of doctors in the Czech Republic. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 109, 174 Members of Parliament signed up for 78, versus 88. The motion was denied. Mr Zlínský proposes to include a new point, which is: a discussion on the proposal for a regulation of the European Union on the European space for health data. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 110, 174 Members and Members of Parliament signed in for 28, against 90. The motion was denied. Mrs Pošarová proposes to include a new point, which reads: Information of the Government and the Minister of Industry and Trade on how the electricity price for Czech consumers is particularly high. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? And I'll ask my colleagues to calm down and keep it down, thank you. Who's against it? Voting number 111, 174 Members of Parliament signed in for 76, versus 85. The motion was denied. Mr Juchelka proposes to include a new point, which reads: A threat to the payout of over-regional social services. Initiating and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 112, 174 Members of Parliament signed up, for 80, against 86. The motion was denied. Mr Kolovratník proposes to include a new item called the Uncertain Budget of the Ministry of Transport and a threat to the construction of infrastructure. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 113, 174 Members and Members signed in for 80, against 93. The motion was denied. Mrs Dražilová proposes to include a new item entitled The solution to the consequences of the government's disdain for the elderly. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 114, 174 Members and Members voted in favour of 80, against 89. The motion was denied. Mr Tureček proposes to include a new item entitled Information of the Government of the Czech Republic on the current disease situation in the Czech Republic in livestock farming. I intervene... I'm sorry, I'm not intervening, but I'm taking the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? [[Fun in the hall.]] Who's against it? Voting number 115, 174 Members of Parliament signed in, for 77, against 92. The motion was denied. And the last proposal was Mrs Pastuchová's proposal to include a new point entitled The current situation at the Labour Office. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 116 entered 174 Members and Members, for 78, against 89. The motion was denied. We have therefore dealt with all the proposals to amend the approved agenda and have now signed up with the priority right of Minister Černochová. And I'm handing over the meeting proceedings. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-24-ps2021-050-05-000-000.u68	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I call unaddressed to the diaper along with Wood Allen: "Just because you're paranoid doesn't mean they're not after you." Madam President of the club ANO Schillerová, dear colleague Jana Pastuchová, neither you nor I can be a slave - through Madam Vice-President. We cannot be slaves because we all receive wages in this House. And the fact that you guys put my words on each other, that's not my problem, that's your problem. [[Speech of disapproval in the ranks of members of YES 2011, banging on benches.]] I would like to mention here in the whole context of the debate that was going on between me and Mr Metnar that a heated election campaign was being addressed. The election campaign, which, unfortunately, was raised by your candidate, who was escalated by the ANO movement and escalated this ANO campaign in the sense that, for example, the esteemed Professor Nerudová came up with this e-mail. [[Speech of disapproval of members of the ANO 2011 movement.]] Let me read you this e-mail because it is clear from this e-mail that your supporters are able and willing to do everything for the ANO movement, as slaves, "Dear Professor Nerudová, we are the voters of the ANO movement, which we proudly claim, and we are most upset by what you took in your speech when you didn't go anywhere and you didn't take the loss, saying that the greatest evil is Mr Babiš...."... that the greatest evil is Mr Babiš and that he has puppets and now would like Lany and even Prague Castle. [[The majority of the members of this club are leaving the Chamber.]] If you don't apologize, a baseball bat will land on your forebite! And maybe your forebite will help you straighten out. If you apologize publicly, we'll call off the action, and if you don't, we'll find you after the President's election! You can count on it. Decent citizens angry at you. 16 January 2023." [[17.20 hours]] Dear colleague Schillerová, through the Vice-President, speaking of excuses, I would like to ask you to put in a word with Mr Babiš for his apology to the soldiers. Don't drag soldiers into his campaign, don't blame them for dragging our country into war, don't let those soldiers want a war like we don't want it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-24-ps2021-050-05-000-000.u69	Ladies and gentlemen, I am registering your application with priority rights, Madam President. Before we go any further, I will read one apology: today, during the whole day of the meeting, for reasons of work, Minister Jozef Síkela apologizes. We are still outside the debate and an open point, so it is only possible to speak with priority rights. And I will ask you, colleagues and colleagues, colleagues and colleagues, from the government benches for silence. And please, Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-24-ps2021-050-05-000-000.u70	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Well, what can I say? I condemn any threats against Professor Nerudová. I condemn any threats to Mrs. Monika Babišová. I condemn any threat to President . Andrej Babiš. I condemn any call for any violence, any attacks and disrespect for all of us. That should come from your mouth, Madam Secretary. This should be heard from the mouth of every policy of this Chamber of Deputies. [[A round of applause for members of the ANO movement.]] When you're calmed down, watch the tape of your performance. I don't think I've ever heard anything more awkward in my life. [[A round of applause for members of the ANO movement, screams.]] Let me, because I think we're gonna have to breathe this out, all my colleagues, so I'm taking a break from the ANO meeting in 19 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-24-ps2021-050-05-000-000.u71	I thank you, and just for the record, want to ask the club presidents, because there is a bill on the agenda of the next meeting, if the ANO movement has taken a break by 19.00, in which case I will interrupt the meeting, because it has not been voted to act and to vote in a Meritorne and a procedural vote after 19.00. I shall then adjourn the Chamber of Deputies until 9 a.m. tomorrow morning. Thank you.
