ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-18-ps2021-063-03-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening another meeting on the 63rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome to all of you. To record our participation, I've just checked you all out, and I'm going to ask you to sign up with your I.D. cards, or tell me who's asking for a replacement card. I hereby declare that the following Members requested to apologize for their absence from the hearing: Bačíková Jana from the whole day for health reasons, Berki Jan within 16 hours due to the foreign trip, slavík Jiří from the whole Zlínský for health Vladimír, ochodnický Martina from the whole day for medical reasons, Foldyna Jaroslav from the whole day for medical reasons, Heller Šimon from the whole day for working reasons, KaňkovskKaňkovský Vít until 15.30 for health reasons, Knechtová Lenka from 14 hours for working reasons, Kohoutek Tomáš from the whole day for foreign reasons, kolovratník Martin from the whole Šebelová for Šafránková Tureček, Krejza Karel from the Šimek David for reasons of procedure, Krutáková Jana from 16 to 19 hours for working reasons, Lacina Jan from the whole day for medical reasons, Müller Tomáš, from the whole day for working reasons, Ochnický Martin for the whole day for medical reasons, RatiborskRatiborský Michal for the whole day for the whole day of procedure, from 16 hours of work, from 16 hours of work for reasons of Šia's. Prime Minister Petr Fiala apologizes from the members of the government for the whole day due to foreign travel, ministers: Vladimír Balaš within 15 hours for working reasons, Baxa Martin from 15.15 to 16 hours and from 18 hours for working reasons, Bek Mikuláš from the whole day for working reasons, Hladík Petr from the whole day for working reasons and Šalomoun Michal from 14 to 16 hours for working reasons. Madam Members, I would now like to inform you of the proposals on which today's grémium has been agreed. First of all, I would like to inform you about the agreement from the Gremium, which concerns the 64th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. It will start tomorrow, i.e. on Wednesday 19 April at 15 o'clock, with a subsequent interruption and at 15.10 o'clock we will continue the interrupted 60th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, which is a meeting under the name Situation in the Czech Post. We also propose, first, to include new points in the approved agenda of the 63rd meeting: firstly, the Government's bill amending Act No. 325/1999 Coll., on Asylum, as amended, Act No. 326/1999 Coll., on the residence of foreigners in the territory of the Czech Republic and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended, and other related laws, House printing 387, in the block of Laws - third reading. The legal time limits have been fulfilled since Wednesday 19. 4. This House press can be discussed. Secondly, the draft timetable for the discussion of the Government's draft State Final Account of the Czech Republic for 2022 in the Chamber of Deputies and its bodies and for the proposal for its commandments to committees, including the commandments of its chapters and their relations with state funds, the House's document 2497, into the News block, proposals and other points. Thirdly, a proposal for changes in the composition of the House of Deputies bodies to the Election Points block. Secondly, we propose the following procedure in this week: as the first item today, discuss the new item on the draft timetable for the state final account, House document 2497 if it is included. Then discuss the points of the Act block - second reading, in the following order: paragraph 7 of the approved programme, House printing 323, on agricultural stock sheets; point 1 of the approved programme, House printing 227, on the right to information; point 3 of the approved programme, House printing 286, on the road; point 4 of the approved programme, House printing 297, on mining activities; point 5 of the approved programme, House printing 300, on the verification of arms and ammunition; point 6 of the approved programme, House printing 307, on local charges. Tomorrow, on Wednesday, 19 April, first discuss the points of the Law - third reading block, in order: first a new item, House printing 387, i.e. the Asylum Act, if it is included; then point 103 of the approved programme, House printing 289, on pedagogical workers; point 106 of the approved programme, House printing 346, on electronic communications; point 114 of the approved programme, House printing 352, on the protection of notifiers; Point 115 of the approved programme, House press 353, on the protection of notifiers - related; paragraph 108 of the approved programme, House press 283, on the protection of competition. In 13.45 then discuss electoral points, i.e. the newly included item proposal for changes in the composition of the bodies of the Chamber of Deputies, if included, and paragraph 121, the proposal for appointment of members of the Board of Auditors of the Grant Agency of the Czech Republic, second round. The 64th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies will be opened at 15 o'clock, and as I have already informed you, at about 15.10 we will then continue the suspended 60th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. On Thursday, 20 April, we would start negotiations on paragraph 145 of the approved programme, which are Answers to written interpelations, and immediately after it has been discussed, but at 11 o'clock at the latest, we would continue to discuss points from the Treaty block - first reading, namely points 94 to 101, i.e. by House prints 358, 381, 382, 389, 390, 391, 398 and 399. We would also, if necessary, continue points from the Report block, proposals and other points, from point 125 to point 137 inclusive, except for points 127 and 133. At 14.30, the Oral Interpelration point will begin, i.e. paragraph 146. On Friday, April 21, we would discuss points from the Act block - third reading in the order: paragraph 116 of the approved programme, House printing 368, draft law amending certain laws in the field of defence; paragraph 117 of the approved programme, House printing 369, law on the financing of defence, and other points from the Act block - third reading, which may not be discussed on Wednesday, 19 April and have legal deadlines. Then we would continue points from the Act block - first reading, namely point 20 of the approved programme, House printing 383, criminal record; item 22 of the approved programme, House printing 385, value added tax; item 15 of the approved programme, House printing 367, radioactive waste storage. [[14.10 hours]] This is from the proposal from the Gremium and from my side all. An overview of the remaining points has been sent to you by e-mail. [[Noise in the hall.]] And so now it is possible to speak on the agenda of the meeting with proposals for any changes to it. First of all, Prime Minister Benda and I, colleagues, are asking you to lower your voice, move your conversations to the lobby. This applies entirely to the entire O.R. so that we can hear the proposals made by the President. Once again, I'm asking you to keep your voice down. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-18-ps2021-063-03-000-000.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, after today's agreement, I will only make about four changes, which - it was generally consensual - but which are merely coalition. That is, the first proposal is that two more points be included tomorrow for the fixed points in third readings, namely paragraph 102, the Government Bill on Czech Television and Czech Radio, the House Print 263, the third reading, and the second point 105, the Government Bill amending the Act on Association in Political Parties, the House Print 312. You include them as the fixed third reading, with the possibility that they will continue on Friday if they fail to do so. That's two suggestions for third reading. The third proposal concerns tomorrow again, namely that point 139, House document 1927, the proposal for the removal of Daniel Köppl from the post of member of the Radio and Television Broadcasting Council, with this point being terminated at the latest in the 13.45, where the Grémium has already proposed to include the two electoral points - the institutions and the Grant Agency. And last point: on Thursday, after the Treaty points included in the first reading block, I propose that one more contract be included in the second reading, namely paragraph 92, the Government's proposal by which the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic is submitted to express its consent simply, Kosovo, House Press 65. These are the four proposals I dare to make on behalf of the coalition. I will ask the House to support them with its vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-18-ps2021-063-03-000-000.u3	Thank you for the proposals. The next President-in-Office is Alena Schillerová with priority rights, followed by President Okamura. One more time, please, keep it down. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-18-ps2021-063-03-000-000.u4	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I would just like to clarify before I go to the point that I am going to ask for today, so I would just like to clarify that we have agreed on the Gremium, but I think it is clear that the 60th meeting will be opened, an extraordinary one called Czech Post, and that it will simply support the five-wheelers' programme so that other Members can also perform rather than those with priority rights. I'm just specifying. I think that's how it was agreed, and I just believe the word "five-calice" is true. And now, allow me to step up and ask for a new item called Missing revenue in the state budget or budget harakiri. I call for the first item in today's negotiations, because it is indeed very, very crucial. Unfortunately, although I do not like to say again that the fears and concerns relating to the reality of the State budget for 2023, which I have repeatedly presented from this place, have been confirmed...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-18-ps2021-063-03-000-000.u5	I'm sorry, I'm sorry, but one more time: colleagues and colleagues, I beg you to lower the noise level in the room. If there's anything you need to figure out, move to the lobby.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-18-ps2021-063-03-000-000.u6	Thank you, Madam President. They have been repeatedly confirmed, and the budgetary procedure for which the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura is fully responsible is the culmination of Swedishism and budget harakiri. The forecast of tax revenue for the Committee on Budgetary Forecasts, in which the updates of the estimates of revenue from unexpected profits for the energy and banking sector, i.e. windfall tax, and the estimates of excess income payments are even more pessimistic scenarios than many expected, and we did not expect much. Deficiencies of up to three fifths of expected revenue - according to current figures, the total collection of tax for the period from the end of 2022 and the whole year should be in 2023, the collection of tax on unexpected profits of 28 billion and the levy on excessive income for the period from the end of 2022 and the whole year 2023 amounting to CZK 12,5 billion. This year's approved budget envisages a total collection of CZK 100 billion - CZK 100 billion - which was to be composed of the tax on unexpected profits, where the government is counting on 85 billion revenue in the budget, and the remaining 15 billion - I do not see any minister here - should have been collected in the context of over-income contributions. [[President Schiller looks at government benches]] [[Minister Černochová outside the microphone warns that she is present.]] I mean Minister Stanjur or Minister Síkel, to whom I have always spoken. It doesn't concern you, Madam Secretary, thank God, I'm going to spare you today. The result is that Minister Stanjura made a shoe in the budget for almost 60 billion crowns. This draped state budget is potěmkinový's village and a permanent political legacy to heaven calling for the unwillingness of Minister Stanjura to communicate, discuss, play fair and behave in the boundaries that have worked here since Eduard Janota and which each minister of finance has respected regardless of political affiliation until the moment of the entrée Zbyněk Stanjura to the Office of the Ministry of Finance, which has made our most important law of the year a tearing calendar. In October 2022, as part of the first reading of the state budget, I pointed out that I doubt that the sum of CZK 100 billion would be collected in 2023, and I repeated that the expected failure would be the political responsibility of the five-wheeler and the political responsibility of the Minister of Finance. I therefore expect the Minister of Finance to bring about this political responsibility. I merely recall that this completely new tax has been adopted as a Member's proposal to Mr Zbyněk Stanjura as an addition to the tax package. At the first reading of the state budget, the Committee on Budget Forecasts, i.e. independent institutions, made it clear that the inclusion of revenue from unexpected profits and the introduction of a ceiling on market revenues from electricity generation of CZK 100 billion in revenue from the state budget had no support in legislation, which was contrary to the normal process of preparing the state budget. At that time, the members of the committee clearly agreed that the risks arising from such a situation should be pointed out and that derogations from budgetary rules should be avoided becoming a new standard. The Committee further noted that it did not have sufficient information to assess those extraordinary revenue from the budget in terms of the likelihood of achieving it. It's all traceable in the tapestry. The reason why the committee did not have this information was already clear, and it was the unwillingness of Minister Stanjura to communicate in any way or to present any figures, scenarios of development or possibility of achieving predicted revenue. As a result of this non-standard legislative budgetary procedure, we had no specific calculation. There was no RIA, no economic impact analysis, no commentary procedure. [[14.20 hours]] The absence of discussion was essential. It was juggling with numbers on a completely random principle and the result is absolutely trivial: the absence of three fifths of estimated revenue. And I'm still very mild here, because I'm also counting the levy on excessive income under the Energy Act. If we were just talking about a windfall tax, Minister Stanjura will only collect one third, one third of his expected revenue. I must point out to the entire budgeting process in connection with the adoption of the tax on unexpected profits that the Minister of Finance has completely withdrawn from the recovery of the municipality and the region. I must remind here the fall on the Prague Stock Exchange, which created five koalice and government Members with its amateur inability to agree on the basic parameters of this tax. Moreover, we have discussed this law in a legislative emergency, while the legal conditions of the legislative emergency have not been met. Unfortunately, we have come into a potential collision with the Czech Constitution, but also with the law of the European Union, with the tax on unexpected profits and taxes on excessive income. Many experts pointed out the possibility of double taxation. These taxes had an impact on one sector and could potentially have had a so-called throbbing effect on the sector.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-18-ps2021-063-03-000-000.u7	I'm sorry, but I'm going to interrupt you, Madam President, to keep our colleagues and colleagues in the room quiet.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-18-ps2021-063-03-000-000.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Last year I drew attention to Minister Stanjura's budgetary offences, talking about the state budget being a law on the future of this country, and that future was built on water. The $60 billion missing isn't change. It is almost twice the total state budget deficits that the YES movement had at the Ministry of Finance before the pandemic arrived in five years. But these 60 billion crowns are not a unique error associated with the budget for 2023. Because of the Baťa deficit number 295 billion, Minister Stanjura cheats and optically reduces the deficit in other areas. Despite the fact that I warned the government of five coalitions that there were 15 billion missing after the adoption of the disgraceful Act on the slowdown in the valorisation of pensions, there are still CZK 15 billion missing to valorize pensions. The government didn't hear us, so there was just this situation that we're in right now. Moreover, five-calice optically shifts part of the state budget deficit into state funds and transfers 30 billion to SFDI, which has no economic logic, but this is not seen in the state budget deficit, and that is the point. PR is for this government, this finance minister, because this is crucial to him. To this we can add another CZK 50 billion in connection with the Modernisation Fund of the environment, which is not included either by domestic legislation or by European legislation. Zbyněk Stanjura also draws attention to this problem by the chairman of the budget committee for the STAN movement Mr Bernard, I have heard his comments in the media. And another CZK 7 billion is taken by the government of Petr Fiala from health insurance companies, which must heal from reserves. Take a look at their management results for 2022 and you can also look at the outlook for 2023. Those reserves were accumulated by health insurance companies during our reign. So I could keep going. I only took the most important amounts. We're almost a brother at 160 billion. Inventions of fictional and fictional calculations and illusionistic efforts to reduce the state budget, which we all will pay. We will pay for this through a deterioration of the reputation of the Czech Republic, which will significantly cost us debt service. This optical reduction may still affect a certain part of the electorate, who still believes fairy tales from Zbyněk Stanjura's workshop. Unfortunately, the true hard figures will not escape me, or the rating agencies, or the attention of our creditors. Every other day of incompetent leadership of the most important resort makes our reputation worse in international markets. It is high time the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura paid for these mistakes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-18-ps2021-063-03-000-000.u9	Thank you for the proposal. So now President Okamura is in line, which I already see, so he has the floor. I ask you, colleagues, once again to be quiet. Following the President, Mrs Balaštíková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-18-ps2021-063-03-000-000.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose, on behalf of the SPD movement, as the first special item at the meeting of today's Chamber of Deputies, a point called the Government's Five-Bales, to break down public finances and lead our country to bankruptcy. I would now like to justify this proposal. The measure of the Fialův Government led to an increase in the price of electricity and the increase in debt. The consolidation of public finances is failing. The five-police government budget for this year, with the astronomical deficit of 295 billion crowns, is becoming increasingly unrealistic and will certainly be exceeded. The tax on extraordinary profits, the so-called windfall tax, relating to companies operating in the fields of energy and petrochemicals, as well as the largest banks that the government coalition put into the rule of law last year, will by far not bring into the state budget the funds initially envisaged by the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Finance itself admitted that instead of CZK 100 billion this year, the revenue from this tax will be at a maximum of CZK 40 billion. This fully fulfilled the SPD forecast, which did not support the introduction of this tax in the House, and we accurately predicted that the calculation of the annual revenue from this tax was completely irresponsible and unrealistically exaggerated in the state budget proposal. The introduction of this tax also led to an increase in electricity prices for consumers and a higher amount of compensation paid from the state budget to energy suppliers. It is also very likely that, following the introduction of this exceptional tax, the companies concerned, in various ways, are reducing their factual profit, the so-called tax optimization. They will also try to project increased costs into their prices. For these reasons too, the state budget is in the record deficit of CZK 166.2 billion after the first quarter and its total annual deficit will certainly be much higher than the planned CZK 295 billion. This is an extraordinary failure of the entire government five-wheeler and, first of all, Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura of ODS, who should resign immediately. The government of Petr Fiala from ODS is unable to manage and consolidate public finances. It does nothing against the appallingly growing budget deficit and government debt and should therefore end. So, for all these reasons, I propose to include as item number 1 at today's House meeting a point called the Government Five-callice is destroying public finances and leading our country to bankruptcy so that we can discuss this very serious situation here in the House and with the opposition and, of course, we can present our opposition proposals, which the SPD is presenting all year round. [[14.30 hours]] As the second item in today's House of Deputies meeting, I propose an extraordinary point called the Purple Government does not address the cost. Gas prices increased by 60 percent year on year, electricity prices by 29,6 percent, solid fuel prices by 53.7 % and heat and hot water prices by 44.6 percent. This is the real business card of the Fialův Government and its inactivity. [[Noise in the hall.]] Current...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-18-ps2021-063-03-000-000.u11	I am so sorry, Mr President, but in the left side of the hall, I will ask for a silence. And I'm really going to ask you to move into the lobby, or I'm going to have to appoint individual Members who don't keep the peace here in the hall. I really can't do that anymore. Please, Mr. Chairman, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-18-ps2021-063-03-000-000.u12	The current annual inflation rate is 15 percent high, government officials are quite incomprehensiblely cheering over it, and they even consider it their success, and the situation in Europe is completely different, when average inflation in Europe is below 10 percent - France, Germany below 10 percent, Switzerland inflation 3%, where they have showered energy directly with producers, as proposed by the SPD a year ago. The Fialův government bailed, so, of course, high inflation is because of the incompetent and inactive Fialův government, and there is certainly no room for cheering at all. Moreover, as I said, prices of natural gas, electricity prices - year-on-year comparison - of solid fuels, heat prices, hot water, and so on. Food prices also rose dramatically. Prices of rice and flour rose by 32 percent year on year in the Czech Republic, pig meat by 34 percent, milk by 45 percent, eggs by 75 percent and sugar even increased by 97 percent. This is the real business card of the Fialův Government and its inactivity, I must say in quotation marks, in the fight against inflation and price increases. Our recipes are long-term clear. It is about setting low price ceilings directly for electricity producers, reducing the rate of value added tax on energy, water, medicines and basic foods to zero. It works in Europe. Only the government of Petr Fiala from ODS and its advisors send even public citizens to buy in Poland and the government does nothing against the price increase. On the contrary, the government is still planning a significant increase in value added tax for many types of goods and services of daily needs, which will only lead to further increases, further increases in inflation and a deterioration in the social and existential situation of our citizens. Of course, the SPD does not agree with this, because today's expensive is a problem for millions of citizens of the Czech Republic, citizens have to go to Poland to buy cheap food, but even in Germany they are cheaper, citizens also evaluate higher quality, but there are three times higher incomes! So the Fialův government has made us a country that's expensive, overpriced, people don't have money, and the government refuses to deal with it at all. I really consider it an incredible statement by Prime Minister Fiala Štěpán Křeček, who said that citizens should go shopping for food to Poland because it is cheaper there, and that it is worth it to the Pražák people as well. [[♪ to ♪]] And there's only one thing I can say. A government that resigned from solving the problems of citizens and its country is completely useless. A government like that is completely useless! You guys should really leave and let somebody else do it. So I'd like to put a point number two, an extraordinary point at this House meeting, a point called the Fialův Government doesn't solve the price, because I think it's necessary for citizens to hear the public debate. We will repeat the proposals for the SPD solution, which shows that other countries are gradually adopting them. By the way, the reduction in VAT to zero on food more than a year ago, the Polák did it, now the Portugalec did it, so there's no problem in Europe. The Fialův government simply does not want to make food cheaper for its citizens, so the Fialův government still paralyzes cheap VAT. That means it's a truly incredibly antisocial, incompetent and harmful government, and I think we should discuss this publicly. I suspect that the extraordinary points I'm proposing here will once again be rejected by Fialův's five-calice government, because not only do you have no solution, you're afraid of a solution being publicly discussed here by the opposition, and citizens have become your hostages. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-18-ps2021-063-03-000-000.u13	The next is therefore Mrs Balaštíková, followed by Mrs Adámková with several applications, so this is now with a five-minute limit. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-18-ps2021-063-03-000-000.u14	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to include a new point in today's Chamber of Deputies meeting on the issue of grain from the eastern bloc, which has been addressed to third countries. Unfortunately, the basic conditions of the original agreement have not been complied with and part of it has been removed from the territory of the European Union. The goods were to be sealed and unloaded only in ports where they were to be transported to Africa. Unfortunately, this has not happened and the goods are still on the European market, in addition, there have been seizures in Slovakia and Poland where it has been shown that illegal residues are present in these cereals, which may harm the health of citizens. Countries Vé tývky - Hungary, Slovakia and Poland - issued a ban on imports of this grain. We were expecting our Minister of Agriculture to try to initiate negotiations. Four alone, or at least join these countries. We are pleased that checks are underway on this forbidden grain, so far no issues have been identified on our territory, but what is perhaps little known is that a large part of these cereals are not only originating from Ukraine, because Ukraine predicted that it will not be able to meet its obligations and therefore lack sufficient quantity of grain to cover the required orders, so it is the origin of goods from the Russian Federation. On the one hand, we are making an embargo and, on the other hand, we are having such cuts done in the agriculture and economy of the European Union. We make primary mistakes and do not protect the European market. This is what we want to discuss today, and we want to ask the Minister of Agriculture to join the V4 countries, and to take decisive steps to protect the European market, namely the health of citizens living in this territory, where this illicit contaminated grain is located. Unfortunately, the vices that are, Mrs Ursula von der Leyen is unable to deal with within the EU, and we therefore ask that you support the Vé 4 countries that are trying to remedy this issue. [[Steps?]] I ask you to include this item, Madam President, as the new points on today's agenda. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-18-ps2021-063-03-000-000.u15	I will, of course, then propose it in the vote, I cannot do it myself, but I have noted your proposal. Mrs Adámková will now speak with her proposals. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-18-ps2021-063-03-000-000.u16	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I come before you with a request for the inclusion of three very important points which he brought to me last week, which citizens ask me, whether they are from a small village or from a large city, and I consider it very important to talk about these points so that we can provide comprehensive information. I've got three points here - I'm saying I'm not gonna take 15 minutes, that's only because if someone wanted to consider this obstruction proposals, there's no way - and I'm gonna let you imagine them briefly. The first proposal I would like to place as the first point after the fixed points on Friday is evergreen. This is a transplant law, House press 162, which means the abolition of discrimination against voluntary bone marrow donors if they have a complication after this collection that requires incapacity for work. I'm gonna make a brief point here, so I'm saying it about seven, but I'm still hitting the wall. I feel like I could've broken through that wall, but I can't do it here. The problem is that voluntary bone marrow donors are really anonymous, they save - unfortunately fatal - diseases in these people, for whom we do not have any other treatment, and if there is a complication that requires incapacity for work - I warn you that these complications are very rare in the hands of experts, but unfortunately they have been - they have forgotten the previous law, and if they have this complication associated with incapacity for work, they do not receive a full salary as other voluntary organ donors, but receive a classic illness. This has already led to the fact that several donors have checked out after, unfortunately, you have not supported this point as an act to straighten this injustice out. Therefore, I ask very much and ask all health professionals in all clubs to really explain to their colleagues that leukemia does not choose either age or status, and we often have no treatment for it other than transplantation. So, please, as the first point after the fixed points, and just so you know, I really want to discuss this, so please, for Friday. I'm not pushing you at all today, not tomorrow, not Thursday, but it's a point that saves lives. Let's see how we turn out. [[14.40 hours]] The second point I would ask for inclusion is the availability of Czech Post services as an impact on the quality of life of Czech citizens. It may seem to you that this has nothing to do with health care. I'm not gonna take logistics here or anything like that, that's what they're experts on these things, but these are the things patients ask me - and I repeat, are they from a small village or a big city - since last week, and I haven't had an answer to that without consulting. I cannot personalize the law behind the House, how it will decide or how it will continue. The point is that many sick people - and may not be completely old, do not imagine that they are only 80+ people, but unfortunately the disease does not choose and affects young people - and these people also live in smaller towns, in smaller villages, and believe me that their financial situation is not enviable. They're long-term incompetent, then in some disability pension, they can't all set up the Internet, they don't all have a smart phone, so there's a situation that really doesn't go without communicating with the mail. The idea, you all know very well that the health administration, if it is to be for further negotiations - and this is very often a trial, negotiations at the offices of work, negotiations in other matters - must be completed, must have a stamp and a signature. Please nicely, they have no way to accept this message other than by mail, so their question to me is: Who will bring it to me? I can't get to the post office if they cancel ours. I don't know the answer, which is why I'm asking to be included so we can talk about it, I really don't know. Another thing that came yesterday and today, questions again. These are people who have reduced mobility, do not have pretty accounts, please, because they have told me that it makes no sense to establish it because they do not have an available ATM at their place of residence, do not reach there, of course they live alone, maybe they do not have a family and do not want to give access information to strangers. So I see it as a problem that - has not yet fallen here in this House - is a different point of view, in any case very important, because these people need these services and we need to think about how to replace them. So please place the first point after the fixed points today. I just want to open negotiations on this, so you can tell me the ideas. I assume the government already has the idea of replacing them with these services. I just don't know them, and that's why we can't say them in the field, of course. So I'm gonna ask for another five minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-18-ps2021-063-03-000-000.u17	Yes, another five minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-18-ps2021-063-03-000-000.u18	Thank you. And the third point where I would like to turn your attention is, of course, another thing that is very lively, very discussed, you are still resisting it here to discuss it - which I think is not good, because this discussion would, to a certain extent, also protect the Minister of Health, who is from the coalition - and that is the availability of the supply of drugs on the Czech market. I'm not going to talk about antibiotics at all, there's been a lot of talk about it here, but there are other medicines. So now we've found that unfortunately, not all the medicines suitable for treating diabetes are available. Please note that type I diabetes sometimes also needs parenteral medication, or not tablets. Some of them aren't available, and unfortunately from the information that goes on, I'm not gonna find out until the moment I want to prescribe them - that's too late. So I would really like to discuss here how the Ministry is already entering into negotiations or how it is negotiated with the State Institute for Drug Control, how we will learn about this information on time, not when the patient is sitting in my office, so we have to deal with this situation in some way, and I'm not going to see it until the moment I open the e-Recipe is too late. Of course we'll manage, but it's not particularly comfortable for the patient, so we're already calling from the pharmacy's office and we're trying to adjust the treatment, but believe me, the disease really doesn't care about anybody's political decision, and some treatment needs to be set up the most correct one. Not everyone could use anything the first pharmacy has. So it's very uncomfortable and please talk about it, that's all it is. And here I would like to say this, I said that as the first point, the český Post in quotation marks, so I would ask that as the second point, that I be in agreement with what I gave the President, and I would like those drugs here as the first point today after the fixed points. Thank you. You see, I've far from exhausted the limit that belongs to me. Thank you for pausing yourself over this, for possibly supporting the discussion, and I hope that we will contribute to improving the quality of our citizens' lives.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-18-ps2021-063-03-000-000.u19	Thank you. Madame, I will ask you, after all, if I understand this correctly: this point - drugs - as the first point and mail as the second point, on the contrary. Okay, thank you, all right. Now Mrs Pokorná Jermanová will speak with her proposal and prepare Mrs Oborná, who will follow. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-18-ps2021-063-03-000-000.u20	Thank you, Madam President. I'll perform with my traditional point with a slightly changed name, and then explain why. This point, which I would like to place at the meeting of this honourable House, is called the Government Strategy on the management of state property for the sale of Štiřín Castle and others. What makes me say that? It still leads me to lack of information about what will happen to the castle of Stiřín. I've performed here several times, and the same information keeps popping up in the media. Minister Lipavský gets rid of the castle Štiřín, puts it at the disposal of the government, if I sum it up, and what happens next, no one knows. We're guessing the government wants to sell the castle. But there are many and many question marks. I wonder why investments took place in Štiřín Castle last year for more than 20 million crowns before the castle was closed. I wonder why the services related to the maintenance of the golf course were received by an external company, although at the moment the employees are at home within notice period and are paid. I wonder how the government will dispose of this property. What method? By auction or what? What I'm interested in next, and they're slowly leaking the information, is what might be happening with the historical building of the Czech Post in Jindřišská? Are we selling the Budvar State Company? Are we going to sell other properties, cultural monuments that are non-profitable? Can we see, for example, that we will be selling Karlštejn in the finals, which we have now costly repaired? What's it gonna be? I therefore propose that you, Government, introduce this honourable House to what strategy you have on the management of the necessary state property, and how the sale will take place. I ask for this point to be the first point in today's negotiations, because I consider it very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-18-ps2021-063-03-000-000.u21	Thank you, too. I will now ask for a speech with Mrs Oborná's proposal and Mrs Maříková will prepare herself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-18-ps2021-063-03-000-000.u22	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to include a new item on the agenda of a meeting called Government measures to help affected farmers in the context of the overgrowth of the field vole, because it is a topic which is currently very difficult for Czech farmers, especially in South Moravia and in the Highlands. You have also noticed several television reports, so allow me to at least very briefly justify the inclusion of this new point at the House's meeting. According to the farmers, they are growing stronger in southern Moravia and the Highlands of the Calamity of the field vole. It is critical with the beginning of spring the number of 50 active Norwegians per hectare, but in some places there are currently up to 350 or more. Almost all the districts in the Highlands have exceeded five times the threshold of harm.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-18-ps2021-063-03-000-000.u23	I am very sorry, Madame, but colleagues, especially in the left side of the hall, but also here at the places where the Minister is, please keep it down. And please, you can continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-18-ps2021-063-03-000-000.u24	Even the Central Control and Testing Institute of Agriculture warned about this. At the same time, he mentioned that the danger of significant damage to Třebíčsko and Jihlava, Žďársko and Pelhřimovsko, which is practically in the entire Vysočina region. Some farmers already had to plough crops planted last year. Not only fields sown with cereals but also alfalfa, clover and other crops are affected. There is a real risk of a shortage of feed for livestock, with farmers reporting up to 18 000 Norwegians per hectare in the most affected areas. Many places are affected more than four years ago, when we dealt with this situation in the House with an amendment to the law. Although it is nice that farmers can use Stutox, it is completely illusionary to think that three to five granules could be poured into each burrow. With so many Norwegians, it's technically impossible without military deployment. [[14.50 hours]] Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura mentioned that in budgetary consolidation the government will reduce the amount of subsidies paid to agriculture by tens of billions of crowns, for example. Maybe it's a real plan for the government to respond to the damage caused by this pest. Maybe it's just the test balloon that's been released. In any case, I believe and believe that it would be at least polite for affected farmers to know what they are up to, whether this government intends to help them in any way, or throw them overboard in the name of savings at all costs. Therefore, I propose this point and please propose it as the first point after the fixed points. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-18-ps2021-063-03-000-000.u25	I'm gonna ask you, just to be safe, today after the fixed ones? Thank you. I will now ask for a speech with the proposal of Mrs Maříková and Mr Novák, we have another enrollment. And once again, colleagues, especially in the left side of the hall, please keep your voice down and allow our colleagues and colleagues to get off in a calm atmosphere. It is very unpleasant even for those who must perceive the design that sounds from the counter. Please, madam, you may step forward.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-18-ps2021-063-03-000-000.u26	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I would like to propose a point called Grains from Ukraine crushes the market in the European Union, and I would like to include it as firmly classified points. Farmers are asking that the government begin to address the situation regarding Ukrainian grain. Last year, as part of solidarity, grain, corn, and rape from war-stricken Ukraine were to be transported to the countries of North Africa, where there was to be a lack of food due to the outages of supplies from Ukraine. Finally, Russia began to supply grain to this area, and Ukrainian production remained in Europe, where cereals are now surplus. Thus, a large quantity of Ukrainian grain, which is cheaper than that produced in the European Union, has ended up in Central European countries without meeting strict qualitative parameters and without being grown with the environment required by the European Union's growers. Farmers are in a situation where the warehouses are full, the wheat trade has stopped and are afraid to sell the wheat to where to store the new crops. The Czech Republic exports wheat and a small part went to Poland, where imports from Ukraine are not now sold. The Czech Republic is practically a pure exporter of cereals. It is one of the commodities that at least partially balances the rising negative balance of agrarian foreign trade. Only last year wheat was exported from the Czech Republic for CZK 17.1 billion. The Czech Government is quite lax about this situation when Ukrainian grain is crushing the European market. Farmers want the government to reduce imports of Ukrainian grain or to use it in incinerators for energy purposes. Ukrainian grain is also duty-free. From 4 June 2022, the European Union has suspended import tariff quotas between the two regions for all agricultural and processed agricultural products imported into the European Union from Ukraine for a period of one year. Imports of wheat from Ukraine negatively affect the European market, claims the Agricultural Union of the Czech Republic. Farmers from Poland or Slovakia also draw attention to this. According to the Union, there are concerns that farmers should be able to sell their production from last year's harvest and have somewhere to store this year's harvest. According to the Ministry of Agriculture, 3.5 million tonnes of wheat were imported into the European Union by January this year. It was almost 4,000 tons to the Czech Republic. Farmers in Poland, Slovakia, Hungary and other countries complain about the import of grain from Ukraine. Poland, Hungary and Slovakia have banned imports of grain and other commodities from Ukraine in recent days. This is justified by the necessary protection of domestic farmers against cheap imports and the protection of consumer health. In Slovakia, pesticide residues appeared in one of the consignments, so the government banned the processing of Ukrainian grain. Minister of Agriculture Zdeněk Nekula said that unilateral orders for imports of Ukrainian grain are contrary to the conditions of the single market of the European Union. According to the head of the resort, the Czech Republic does not count on their introduction. And I would therefore like to know how the Ministry of Agriculture wants to address the situation and how it wants to protect our consumers, as grain may contain traces of pesticides and other prohibited substances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-18-ps2021-063-03-000-000.u27	Madam, thank you, just in case: did you think today?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-18-ps2021-063-03-000-000.u28	Yes, today for fixed points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-18-ps2021-063-03-000-000.u29	Thank you. Mr Fiala has now signed up with priority rights, so Mr Novák will wait. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-18-ps2021-063-03-000-000.u30	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, let me also be involved in this debate, because I would like to call for a discussion on a government proposal to amend certain rates or VAT rates, on the grounds that we are discussing pension reform today and daily, reducing pension valorisation. We are discussing that the most endangered group of residents are young families with children who have almost, as far as housing is concerned, a desperate idea or desperate opportunity to get their own apartment and housing and normally live. And in this situation, this government is going to come up with some things that are now at the 10% VAT rate that it wants to put up to 21% of the basic rate, which means that it is obviously going to make these things more expensive. What are some of these things that the government wants to move to make money from the citizens' pockets to the state budget? For example, it's electricity, it's natural gas, it's aqueous, it's coiled, it's firewood that drowns in the villages today, so it's things that make housing expensive for both our seniors and young families with children, just for all of us. And I think that if we are to talk about pension reform, about housing stability, about the stability of a life for young families with children, that is the worst thing we can do. I am asked by journalists how we will respond to this, to a change in rates. And I say to them: simply, the change in VAT rates is synonymous with tax increases in this government's submission. It is an increase in taxes, when this government hopes to draw CZK 24 billion out of taxpayers' pockets, all of us, into the state budget. It's nothing else, and it's gonna make some commodities more expensive, and especially important ones for us to live normally. So for these reasons, I would suggest, Madam President, that we put this point first on today's agenda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-18-ps2021-063-03-000-000.u31	And may I ask you for an exact formulation of the name?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-18-ps2021-063-03-000-000.u32	Talk about VAT changes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-18-ps2021-063-03-000-000.u33	Thank you. I will now ask Mr Novák to present his proposal and Mr Kettner will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-18-ps2021-063-03-000-000.u34	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Colleagues, colleagues, Prime Minister Fiala declared a fight against high food prices and traveled to Asia. However, the price problem remained, and unfortunately none of the government's solutions. Given the current state of inflation, and above all its impact on food prices in the Czech trade chains, I propose the inclusion of the section Information of Prime Minister Petr Fiala on the state of inflation and on the level of food prices. Prime Minister Fiala has embarked on a journey, and in order not to hear the dissenting screams of his own people in this country, he has chosen a very distant destination. To stay at home, he gave us this clear signal, and now I quote: "Inflation has been the lowest since last April and continues to decline. This is good news for all citizens of our country." So far, I haven't heard our citizens feel that way. I continue to quote: "You can see that our approach, the Fialův government, is paying off. Just as energy and fuel prices have been tamed, the same will gradually succeed with food prices and overall inflation. We must be patient and not make unreasonable decisions." Well, actually, I feel like you're not making any decisions, because we haven't heard from government officials yet how they're going to fight high inflation and the level of food prices. The whole message is that inflation has fallen month-on-month - and now stick with it, because that number is dizzy - by 0.1 percent. So congratulations, Prime Minister, but it's not enough for me. [[15.00 hours]] Am I to understand that we are no longer one of the countries with the highest inflation spiral? That the prices of food at which this race for life is most sensitive are falling? Has the Prime Minister recently taken a net at kramářův's Villa and jumped to Hradčanská to buy? Does he know how much butter, eggs, vegetables, fruit, bread costs now? How did the whole one-tenth of the month-on-month decline in inflation manifest itself here? I'll tell you nothing. Citizens of the Czech Republic deserve to live a dignified life and the state should not restrict them and decide on the means to remain in the family budgets and not as additional and unnecessary revenue from the state. Clearly, people cannot afford to buy quality food, which is a direct threat to their health. Is that the aim of this government? If I associate it with retirement reform, it may seem to me that the government is doing everything it can to keep people as young as possible. Congratulations, but not for me. The state is to act as a responsible and attentive caretaker so that it can help its people in times of crisis. I'm not lobbying here at low prices for exotic fruit and vegetables, but for potatoes, carrots, cauliflowers, garlic, sugar, butter, flour. In the Middle Ages, a crook would find himself in a basket of shame and bathe in the Vltava River. Today, trade chains have open doors with the rulers of this country, because they bring money, higher prices, higher VAT in quotation marks, or excise fuel taxes when people go shopping in Poland. That counts. I'm warning the Minister of Money Transactions that 21 percent of zero is still zero. That's why it's appropriate to hear a plan here about how basic food pricing changes, how people finally relax because they save their resources. It is therefore appropriate to request this information here today at this House meeting. I therefore ask for the inclusion of this point as the first one after the fixed points. And if the Prime Minister spends the entire session in Asia, I suggest that his appropriate representative speak with this report, perhaps the Minister of Agriculture Nekula himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-18-ps2021-063-03-000-000.u35	Ambassador, is that what you meant today? [[Yes.]] Today, thank you. Now, then, another will come forward with the proposal, Mr Kettner, followed by Mr Koten. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-18-ps2021-063-03-000-000.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Czech education has a lot of problems, and for me one of those essentials is completely activist, amateur, from above ordered inclusion. The inclusion, as ordered, is actually destroying special education, which the whole world envied, and thanks to which we had 100% literacy. And when educators pointed out that they wanted a regular educator to perform the activities of a special educator, what was to calm the educator was the assistants of the educator. We've always heard: there's no problem, there's enough money, you'll have as many assistants as you need. And now all of a sudden, there's a proposal being dealt with at the Ministry, called parametrization first. Since there was a lot of resistance against it, we tactically changed the name to cover it up a little bit, to institutionalize the teachers' assistants. If you look, the target is the only one - to save money. When calculations were made, small village schools reduced their teaching assistant by 73 percent. For schools with a large number of children with special educational needs, the decline will be 38%. The result will be the only one - the assistants will just leave the schools. But what's the problem? Those kids are gonna stay there. We'll sacrifice them as part of the investigation. And next thing I know, I can't imagine how it's gonna work. We have a kid who's just suffering from anger attacks. Today, the teacher's assistant takes this child, takes him out of class to some rest zone, the teacher continues teaching. If the assistant isn't there, what's the teacher gonna do? Is she gonna catch the cleaning lady? Or is he gonna call the janitor to watch the class, and he's gonna take the baby to the principal's office? Or is he going to put the director on the line? It's just something completely catastrophic. And for another, please, it is planned so that it will certainly not save administration and the work of pedagogical-psychological counseling and those other specialised counseling centers, because even if the assistant is assigned on the basis of the institution, it will still have to be supported by pedagogical-psychological counseling. So the only thing that's gonna happen is the teachers' assistants leave. And nice educators, care! For me, it's another one of the many double-crosses on education and educators. So I would like to include as the first item of today's meeting a point called Institutionalisation of Teacher's Assistants, to discuss it in plenary and not to bang other of the many nails into Czech education. [[Coffins]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-18-ps2021-063-03-000-000.u37	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Koten will now come forward with his proposal and prepare Mr Brázdil, who follows. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-18-ps2021-063-03-000-000.u38	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, Madam President, I would like to put a point on the agenda - because many citizens are writing to me - on the agenda of this meeting, preferably as the first item, I would like to include a point called Food Security in the Czech Republic. Since relatively heavily contaminated grain from Ukraine has appeared on the market, and the Minister of Agriculture Nekula has said that we will not resist European solidarity and we will not resist European standards for free movement of goods, so I think that this is a relatively explosive issue, because if these contaminated pesticides, prohibited pesticides at all in the territory of the European Union, are in huge doses, so if we contaminate our food chain here, whether they are livestock or whether they are humans, and they get flour produced from this grain on the market, we are having a rather big problem here. [[Cereals]] And I would not be afraid to say that the Minister of Agriculture is on the verge of a general threat here, because if someone here consciously wants to distribute and sell Ukrainian grain - while Ukraine is not part of the European Union, it is not a Union state - and even in this way contaminated, there is probably something wrong, because the Minister should act as a representative of the state in the interests of the citizens of the state of the Czech Republic, of the citizens who live here, not of any European Union or of the free market. And I think that the real sale of toxic food, and in order to make it impossible to control it on our territory, that's really beyond the threshold. So please place this point here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-18-ps2021-063-03-000-000.u39	Thank you for the suggestion. Mr Brázdil will now appear and Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová is the last one to be applied for. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-18-ps2021-063-03-000-000.u40	Thank you. Dear colleagues, colleagues, hello. I'd like to ask you to place a point, and I've already performed here repeatedly, I'm asking you again to place a point. Completion of the transformation of 14 ambulances under one state medical rescue service of the Czech Republic. I would like to put this as the last point in today's negotiations. [[15.10 hours]] I speak here for all the people of this state who may one day have problems and fail their vitals, but also for those people who come from abroad. I speak for all of them, and I think - and I know the problem - for 98 percent of the people who provide emergency pre-hospital care, i.e. in the ambulance. We would simply like - I would like you to help complete the transformation of 14 ambulances under one state form, as are the Police of the Czech Republic and the Fire Rescue Corps of the Czech Republic. They have their ministry, they have their state budget, they're managed from one place. The third component of the integrated rescue system is the medical rescue service. I told you repeatedly that it's the smallest file and it has the most exits to the number of paramedics. That's right, we need to help people, but they're 14 times different, otherwise created, otherwise equipped, but also otherwise funded and otherwise rewarded. I think those people deserve to be in the same position in the Kralovehradecký, Moravian-Silesian and other regions - by the way, so that the patient in our Republic gets the same care in the Highlands, South Moravia and so on. So, please, once again, it's not the law, it's just a discussion and it's the last point. I know I speak out of my mind to the Minister, because when I talk to him about it, he knows about this issue that it's not good, that it's 14 times different. So I want to ask you one last point, just to discuss if that's what we want, if that's what we need to do. I hope so. I'm speaking, as I said, for the patients, but also for the paramedics, and I'd be glad if you'd let me put this as the last item in today's meeting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-18-ps2021-063-03-000-000.u41	Thank you for the suggestion, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová will be the last to speak with the proposal. May I have your word, please?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-18-ps2021-063-03-000-000.u42	Madam President, honourable Members of the Government, colleagues, I would like to ask for paragraph 49 to be put forward. It is a point that affects the freezing of politicians' salaries, and it is a point that has been here since the end of 2021, or at the end of 2021, the government has dealt with it. I would like to point out that this law, submitted by Andrej Babiš, was already approved by this House in 2021 in this form, in which Andrej Babiš presented it, but since the elections to the Chamber of Deputies were made, the law came to the Senate, the Senate dropped it, and since the elections had already been made, the House could no longer deal with it. This means that this law could already have been in force from 1 January 2022. This government, which comes up with the fact that by valorizing pensions, it takes what they are legally entitled to from the elderly, now comes up with things like VAT increases and other steps. I will not talk at all about the fact that it is the government that has the most ministers, the most vice-premieres. The difference between the Minister and the Vice Prime Minister is also great. If I want to tell someone: come save money, we should start apart. First of all, the government should take that step. The government talks about bringing a proposal, but when will it bring it to us? Six months, or when? When will it be? So once again I appeal, let's put this point in order. It amazes me at all that she didn't come forward with the proposal on the Organizing Committee, where the government has a majority. If he talks about the fact that this bill cannot be dealt with in its own way, because the proposal is valid from 1 January 2022, we all know that it is extremely necessary for him to go through the first reading, and then there can be a possible comprehensive amendment in the committees, on which there would be agreement across all the membership clubs. So at this point, I would like to ask that this point be placed, or, respectively, referred to, from paragraph 49 as the third point of today's negotiations. I am really going to be very interested in how government Members will vote in the event of this item being put forward. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-18-ps2021-063-03-000-000.u43	Thank you for the suggestion. This was the last proposal, or the last application for the agenda. We will therefore vote on individual proposals. Before my colleagues and colleagues come back from the lobby, I'm gonna load up an apology. First, one apology canceled, by Mr Slavík. On the contrary, Mr Bašta Jaroslav apologizes for the whole day for health reasons, Benešík Ondřej until 6 pm due to foreign travel, Mr Hájek Jiří from 15.30 to 16.30 pm for working reasons, President Jan Jakob, from 17 pm for working reasons. Minister Lipavský Jan apologizes from the members of the government, starting at 15.30 hours for work reasons. First, then, we should vote on proposals from the Gremium. I want to ask if there's any interest in reading them again? It was quite extensive, but since there was a consensus, I believe that you are in agreement with that. Nobody's applying for me to read those Grémia proposals again, no one's making that request, so I'm not reading them. We will therefore proceed to the vote of the proposal from Gremium as a whole. I've logged interest in the check-out. I beg you all to sign up with your ID cards again. As soon as the number of applicants is settled, we will vote. I remind those who have arrived in the hall that we are voting on the proposals as they have been said, and there is a consensus on them from the Gremium. I am opening the vote on these proposals as a whole. I'm asking, who's up for grémia? Who's against it? Voting number 62, 153 entered, for all 153. The proposal was therefore accepted. Now, then, the proposals in order, as they were made. First of all, from President Benda, this was a proposal for a firm inclusion of paragraph 102, namely the House Press 263, and this is the law on Czech Television and Czech Radio. A solid assignment would be tomorrow for fixed points in the third reading block. So, as we have already approved the agreement from the Gremium, for these third reading proposals, this would be the first point. We all know what we're voting on. I am opening the vote on this proposal. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 63, 161 in attendance, for 81, versus 79. The motion was accepted. A motion from President Benda, item 105, House press 312. [[One of the members of the ANO Club is applying for the floor.]] To the vote, Mr. Ambassador? Before I finish this proposal, we have Mr Babka's vote here. [[Mr Babka's seat is with Mrs Babiš.]] Not the Member, but Mrs Babišová? That's right. Please, to the previous vote?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-18-ps2021-063-03-000-000.u44	I'd like to announce that I voted against, but I've got a pro on high school, so I'm questioning the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-18-ps2021-063-03-000-000.u45	You're questioning, okay. As the vote is called into question, we will first vote on it and then repeat the vote if necessary. I therefore initiate the vote on the questioning of the previous vote, that is the 63rd vote. Let me ask you, who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 64, 163 in attendance, for 161, against no one. The motion was accepted. We shall therefore repeat the vote. Let me remind you once again that this was a vote on the solid inclusion of the House press 263, the Czech Television and Czech Radio Act, tomorrow for the already firmly ranked points in the third reading block. Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 65, 166 in attendance, for 84, against 82. The motion was accepted. President Benda also proposed that item 105, namely the House Press 312, the Act on Association in Political Parties, should be included tomorrow as the fixed points in the third reading block, i.e. the House Press 263. Initiating vote. I said, who's in? I'm begging you to keep your voice down. Who's against it? Voting number 66, 166 in attendance, for 85, versus 63. The motion was accepted. Mr Benda also proposes that item 139, which is the House document 1927, the motion to appeal Mr Köppl, should be firmly placed, for tomorrow, Wednesday, 1 p.m. I am opening the vote on the solid inclusion of this item. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 67, 166 present, 86, anti 80. The motion was accepted. And the last proposal from President Benda was that we put the House press 65, point 92, simply the agreement with Kosovo on double taxation, firmly on Thursday after the already fixed points of the contract block. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 68, 166 present for 148, versus 18. The motion was accepted. We shall now proceed to the next petitioner, President Schillerová. It proposes a new item under the title Missing revenue from the state budget or budget harakiri. So first of all, we are voting on the inclusion of this new point. I said, who's up for a new point? Who's against it? Voting number 69, 167 in attendance, for 79, against 82. The motion was not accepted. President Okamura is proposing a new item under the name Government Five-callice to dismantle public finances and lead our country to bankruptcy. We are therefore voting on the inclusion of a new point. I have begun the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 70, 168 in attendance, for 79, against 87. The motion was not accepted. President Okamura also proposes a new point under the name of the Fialův Government that does not address the cost. We also vote on the inclusion of this item first. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 71, 169 in attendance, for 80, against 86. The motion was not accepted. Mrs Balaštíková proposes a new point under the name Cereals from Russia and Ukraine. We vote first on the inclusion of this item. I said, who's up for a new point? Who's against it? Voting number 72, 170 in attendance, for 80, versus 65. The motion was not accepted. Are you applying to the vote, Mr. Ambassador? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-18-ps2021-063-03-000-000.u46	Thank you. I just want to say that at the 70th vote, I voted in favour, and I'm against high school. I'm not questioning the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-18-ps2021-063-03-000-000.u47	Thank you, just for the record. We will therefore proceed to Mrs Adámková's proposals. As the first proposal she made, it is a solid inclusion of the point under point 61 in the programme, it is the House Press 162, the transplant law. The honourable Member proposes that this be the first point after the already fixed points on Friday 21. 4. I am opening the vote on the solid inclusion of this item. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 73, 170 Members and Members of Parliament, for 81, versus 83 are entered. The motion was not accepted. Mrs Adámková also proposes a new point under the title Availability of services of Czech Post, an impact on the quality of life of Czech citizens. Initiating vote on this new item. I said, who's up for a new point? Who's against it? Voting number 74, 170 in attendance, for 81, against 70. The motion was denied. The last proposal by Mrs Adámková is also a new point, namely the availability of the supply of drugs on the Czech market. Initiating vote on a new item. I said, who's up for inclusion? Who's against it? Voting number 75, 170 Members of Parliament signed in for 79, versus 74. The motion was not accepted. Madame Pokorná Jermanová also proposes a new point under the name Government strategy on the management of state property, sale of Štiřín Castle and others. I am opening the vote on the inclusion of this item in the programme. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 76, 170 in attendance, for 81, against 79. The motion was not accepted. Mrs Oborná proposes a new point under the title Government measures to help affected farmers in the context of an overgrowth of field vole. I am opening the vote on the inclusion of this new item. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 77, 170 in attendance, for 80, against 71. The motion was not accepted. Mrs Maříková also proposes a new point under the name Grains from Ukraine crushing the EU market. Initiating vote on the inclusion of this item. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 78, 170 Members of Parliament, in favour of 80, against 83. The motion was not accepted. [[15.30 hours]] President Radim Fiala proposes a new item on the agenda, under the heading of the debate on VAT changes. Initiating vote on the inclusion of a new item. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 79, 170 present, for 80, against 80. The motion was not accepted. Mr Novák also proposes to include a new item under the title Information of Prime Minister Fiala on the state of inflation and on the level of food prices. Initiating vote on the inclusion of a new item. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 80, 170 in attendance, for 79, against 81. The motion was denied. Mr Kettner has proposed a new point, under the name Institutionalisation of teaching assistants. I hereby initiate the vote on the inclusion of this item on the agenda of the meeting. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 81, 170 in attendance, for 79, against 83. The motion was denied. Mr Brázdil proposes a new point, under the title of Unification of ambulances in one medical rescue service of the Czech Republic. Initiating vote on this new point. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 82, 170 in attendance, for 81, against 79. The motion was not accepted. And Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová made the final proposal. It proposes that we place paragraph 49, that is, the House press 54, the Act on the salaries of officials of state power, firmly, and that is the third point today. I am opening the vote on this proposal. I'm asking, who's in favour of putting this point firmly? Voting number 83, 170 in attendance, for 81, versus 76. The motion was not accepted. We have dealt with all the proposals that fell to change the agenda if no one objects and I really haven't overlooked any of their proposals - no, so we have all the proposals settled. I'll hand over the meeting proceedings... Okay, well, I'll start the individual points as we have the agenda now approved. And we're gonna start discussing a point.
