ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-006-017.u1	17. Government bill amending Act No. 256/2004 Coll., on Capital Market Business, as amended, and Act No. 277/2009 Coll., on Insurance, as amended /German press 405 - first reading Under the authority of the Government, he will re-submit the proposal, I have written here, Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura. [[The President shall remain silent and look around.]] Since the Minister of Finance is not present, and apparently none of the other ministers are going to accept and are not in charge of submitting this point, I will ask for a three-minute recess for the Minister to attend the press meeting. Thank you for understanding. [[The hearing shall be suspended from 17.15 to 1717 hours.]] Madam, ladies and gentlemen, the time for a final break has run out, and I will now ask the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura, on behalf of the Government, to present the bill. I beg you, Minister, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-006-017.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I apologize for the short delay that I have caused, and I will try to be shorter in my introductory words, because this bill is, in my opinion, non-conflict, politically non-conflict, it is a fully transposition regulation, it implements the European Union Regulation on a pilot scheme for market infrastructures based on the technology of the distributed register. I think that this sentence makes it very clear to all of us what is going on within this bill, because the definition of an investment instrument is regulated to include investment instruments issued using the technology of the distributed register, so that the definition of an investment instrument is extended. The Regulation establishes the maximum value of registered or traded financial instruments under the pilot scheme. The law then empowers the Czech National Bank to set lower limit values if the market situation in the Czech Republic so requires. In addition to the CSD, the stock exchange and the securities trader shall be expanded under the pilot scheme. In the light of the new Communication issued by the European Commission, the amendment will also update the amounts of large insurance risks and the minimum capital requirements in the Insurance Act. The transposition period will expire on 23 September of this year, so I would like to ask you to release this press for second reading, and then in the debate I will propose a reduction in the negotiations between second and third reading so that we can do so by 23 September if possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-006-017.u3	I thank you, Minister, and I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading, Mr Michael Kohajda. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-006-017.u4	Mr President, Madam Minister, Ministers, fellow Members, allow me to present my report here to the Parliamentary Press 405, which is the Government's proposal for an amendment to the Capital Market Business Act. This proposal was submitted by the Government to the House on 22 March 2023, it was sent to us as a press on 405/0 on 22 March 2023, and it is certainly good to mention the deadline for the implementation of the regulations, which is 23 September of this year, i.e. in a few months. The subject of the adjustment is to amend several provisions, in particular the Capital Market Business Act, with a view to implementing the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the Pilot Scheme for Market Infrastructure based on the technologies of the distributed register, the so-called DLT PILOT, which aims to link traditional financial services and the benefits of blockchain registration. Furthermore, the proposal contains amendments to the Insurance Act to change the definition of large insurance risks and the absolute lower limit for calculating the minimum capital requirement. The pilot scheme for market infrastructures based on the technology of the distributed registry should be made possible in three areas, namely the DLT MTF, that is to say the multilateral trading system, the DLT settlement system, that is to say the settlement system, and as the third area of the DLT trading settlement system, that is to say the trading settlement system. The proposed legislation aims to adapt the definitions of the financial instrument so that they also include explicitly instruments issued with the technology of the distributed register, further to adjust the competence of the Czech National Bank to issue measures of a general nature in relation to the pilot scheme for market infrastructures based on the technologies of the distributed registry and to link the domestic applicable legislation from the pilot scheme regulation for market infrastructures based on the technology of the distributed registry. The definition of large insurance risks and the determination of the absolute lower limit for the calculation of the minimum capital requirement can then be carried out only by this law, therefore it is included in the proposal and the amendment to the Insurance Act. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-006-017.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I open a general debate and ask who is applying for it? With priority rights, Mr. Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-006-017.u6	As I have announced, I suggest we shorten the deadline by 35 days to 25 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-006-017.u7	Thank you, I have noted your proposal. I'm asking if anyone else is joining the debate? This is not the case, in which case I am ending the general debate. And I ask, do you want to take the final words, the Minister or the rapporteur? It's not like that. We will therefore now consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. By her decision, the President of the Chamber of Deputies proposed to order the motion submitted for discussion to the Committee on Budgets as a committee of guarantee. I'm asking if anyone would like to order this press to another committee as a guarantee committee? I don't see a suggestion. We will take the vote. I am opening the vote and I am asking who agrees that the bill tabled should be ordered to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee committee? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who's against the proposal? Voting with order number 121, 152 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 116, against no one. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee committee. The President of the Chamber of Deputies has not proposed to order this proposal to the next committee, and I ask, does anyone else have a motion on the commandment to the next committee or committees? No one's checking in. Thank you. And I'm going to vote on one more proposal. In the general debate, there was a proposal to shorten the time limit for the hearing to 25 days. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of shortening the hearing period to 25 days? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting with order number 122, 151 Members and Members are registered, in favour of proposal 87, against no one. I'm saying that we've reduced the hearing deadline to 25 days. I thank you and end the discussion of this press. With the replacement card today will be voted by Member Žáček and it is card number 20. I'm opening another law, and that's it.
