ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-001-145.u1	145. Responses of members of the Government to written interpelations I'm opening this point. On the agenda of the 63rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, a total of eight responses were submitted to the interpelations that Members were not satisfied with and therefore asked to be included on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies. I draw all Members' attention to the provisions of § 112 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, which reads: "Unless an Interpelling Member is present at a meeting of the House, there shall be no debate on the response to its intervention, and the House shall not deliver an opinion on it or discuss it further." We will now proceed to discuss the answers to the written interpelations. Prime Minister Petr Fiala responded to Mr Martin Kolovratník's interpellation in the matter of plentiful and expensive government communication. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 363. The discussion of this reply was suspended on 9 and 23 February 2023 until the presence of the Prime Minister. Prime Minister Petr Fiala is duly excused on account of his foreign travel, which means that the reason for the interruption of this interpelation, i.e. until the Prime Minister's presence, remains, and I am terminating this interpelation. Secretary of Defense Jana Černochová responded to Mr Martin Kolovratník's interpellation on the hasty conclusions of missile intervention in the territory of the Republic of Poland. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press 364. The discussion of this reply was suspended on 9 and 23 February 2023 in the presence of the Minister of Defence. [[9.10 hours]] As Minister Černochová is duly excused, the reason for the interruption remains, and I am terminating the consultation. Prime Minister Petr Fiala responded to Ms Jana Pastuchová's interview on the lack of security clearance of Deputy Ministers at the Ministry of Health to the degree of "confidential." Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 388. The discussion of this reply was suspended until 23 February 2023 until the presence of the Prime Minister. In this case, too, we will not discuss this because the Prime Minister is duly excused, and therefore the reason for the interruption remains. That concludes the discussion of this interpelation. Prime Minister Petr Fiala responded to Mr Karel Tureček's interpellation on the risky reduction of funds in the Cancer Fund. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press 395. I am opening the debate and asking if anyone is taking part in the debate? As Mr Tureček is not present, we will not start the debate. Yes, yes, and this interpellation is failing due to the absence of Mr Turek. Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura responded to Mr Martin Kolovratník's interpelling on why the government will not help the people in the fight against expensive food. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 396. I am opening the debate and asking if anyone is taking part in the debate? Isn't that right? Mr Martin Kolovratník. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-001-145.u2	Thank you for the floor. Good morning, colleagues. I'm sorry that our written interpelation, that it just doesn't get to them. Of course, I understand that with the Prime Minister, who we know is on a foreign business trip this week, I fully respect that, but I will remind him and my colleague Jana Černochová of my interventions, and I have been prepared here on February 9th, then February 23rd. Today we are in the middle of April and unfortunately still - it was the previous points - are not discussed. I can promise, colleagues in the government, don't worry, I and my colleagues will persevere, we will be patient, and I believe it will reach us on those points. But now, to a point that has been opened, and I believe that today we can also discuss it. It's my interpelation, House press number 396 to the Minister of Finance Stanjura, whom I would like to thank publicly, appreciate that he's taken the time to come here for the interview. He himself knows from those previous periods in the role of the opposition that this is a place for us and a moment for mutual debate, for the exchange of views and for our requests for you in the government to answer our questions, which we often formulate on the basis of questions from citizens, our voters, sometimes your former voters, simply those who are interested in government policy and our state policy. My topic or this interpelation is called, it was a question to Minister Zbyněk Stanjura, why doesn't the government help the people in the fight against expensive food? It can be simplified or lightened by why the shadow minister of transport asks the Minister of Finance about food, partly also agricultural issues, but we know that everything is simply connected. This topic is linked to the economy, with macroeconomic indicators, with the overall economic situation of our country, and especially with how prices, how all prices affect our citizens. I have several numbers here at the beginning of my performance, which are logically no longer quite up to date, because I served the interpellation at the beginning of this year. I received an answer from the Minister on 31 January. At that time, I illustrated the annual increase in food prices, such as oil, +66 %, flour +64 %, butter +61 % and so on. It has something to do with what I mentioned a little while ago. We are going through the biggest, biggest decline in real wages not only within OECD countries, but even in the entire independent history of the Czech Republic, last year we had the most expensive energy in terms of purchasing power and so on. These are all the things you know from the media that have already resonated here in the House. And why am I asking that today? I asked in writing in winter, and today I want to talk to Zbyněk Stanjura about it. The strong topic is also known from the media and many of you personally, after all also the minister is from the border area, from Opavsko, and is adjacent to Poland, where Czech citizens go shopping in large numbers to neighbouring countries, in this case specifically to Poland. If I simplify the story, whether I delay it, it's a basic economic lesson, if not from primary school, then maybe from high school: if people go to spend it, they take the money abroad - and so here I'm talking about Poland - logically leave the money there, someone else makes it, and it's not just the Polish businessman, it's logically and neighbouring, in this case the Polish state, and it's not just VAT, which is either low or very low, virtually zero - that's what I want to ask - but, of course, it's in those subsequent taxes from the profits of the local traders, from the profits of the producers there and so on. In other words, the Czech Republic has - and, Minister, that is why I am directing you, it does not go into agriculture, in those debates, whether the profits are made by farmers or traders, it is the subject of Minister Nekula and our colleagues - my question is why you, as a government and you as Finance Minister, do not want to carry out at least in the short term - and I would like to stress this word, please, that you should see where I am going - not in the long term, but also in the short term, to reduce it to zero food prices or basic food prices. And I repeat, in the short term, in the limited time. Here I will remind you of one example that worked, which proved to have worked when our government ended and handed over control of the country to you, that is, in the autumn of 2021, so we still made it to November and December to give exactly VAT on energy. And you know that it worked in the short term, that it was anti-inflationary, and it's documented from long-term curves and long-term comparisons. You, Minister, answered me on January 31st. I'm not gonna read your whole reaction. It was correct, you refer not only to the harmonisation of tax rates within the European Union, but also to the fact that Poland has so long-term set it up that it has a reduced rate of 5% on food, i.e. without extraordinary intervention, that it is cheaper. And you're correct at the end of that answer - I respect that, it's your political decision, your political opinion, maybe I'll read it quickly here. On my question, if you are working with the possibility of abolishing or at least partially reducing value added tax on food, you have said and you write that the government is currently considering that instead of two reduced tax rates - 15 percent, which is most, and 10 percent, such as gluten-free foods - there could be only one reduced tax rate from next year and so on. This is a public debate we know about. We also know how you are experiencing it within the coalition, and we are expressing and expressing this, but again, please go to the debate - and I am repeating myself - my question only points to a short-term, even if it is a few months' reduction to zero in these very basic foods, so that our people do not go shopping in Poland. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-001-145.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Is the Minister reporting for the debate? Yes, it is. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-001-145.u4	Thank you for the floor, good morning. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Madam Vice-President, first about two general remarks, and then I will address the questions or content of the interpelation. I think that interpelation is the right discipline and that there are opportunities not only for the opposition, to ask questions or criticize the government, but also for the government to defend or explain their actions. This written interpelation is on the agenda for the first time as in the sense, so we didn't have to interrupt it once. I think that's a good thing, but I know that there are debates going on between the presidents of the parliamentary clubs, political parties and political movements, and I think that, in particular, oral intervention, we could make it more attractive than the format that is today. [[9.20 hours]] I am among those who do not like - and we have seen this in the past two parliamentary periods - questions from government Members that I have already described in opposition: How do you do this, Minister, that you are so good? The minister will answer what he's up to, you have an additional question: Yes, how do you do it that you're even better than I thought five minutes ago? I think we have somewhere to inspire ourselves that this could be a really interesting discipline, where both sides of this political struggle, in a good way, arguments, political programs, would have a chance to explain their positions and explain to their constituents how the political party or the political movement wants to solve a specific problem. In general, I think it is not good to introduce short-term tax changes. Yes, you can grab my word right away - we have reduced excise duty in the short term, but it has a different character than VAT. Consumer tax is simply a fixed part of the price, and we have also carried out margin checks, which means you have almost sure that almost the whole reduction of excise tax will be reflected in the end price. For VAT, there is another guarantee that the VAT reduction will not be shown in such a significant way at the end price. In other words, this maneuver - and now first I will speak in general, regardless of which item it is, which goods or which product or which service - means a failure on the revenue side, no question. You can count a normal three-piece, it's not that complicated. But the effect won't end with the end customer, this three-man, it's not what they save. We have historical experience, we have increased and reduced VAT rates and what is not at all surprising applies, every VAT increase is fully reflected in the price for end customers, every VAT reduction has never been fully reflected in the price reduction. It's not 100:0, I'm just saying that the VAT reduction depends on a competitive environment, doesn't show up in a given product or service. That is the main reason why I personally oppose these changes. The second thing, let's say it's actually just a rhetorical question. I described the answers, the permanent condition. This means, in our country, VAT of 15 per cent on food, with exceptions and in Poland five in the long term. The rhetorical question is: it was your government that introduced a second reduced rate for Prime Minister Sobotka. I remember the debate. Many of you warned that once we opened it, each new VAT adjustment would logically increase the number of applications for transfer from the first to the second reduced rate. For everyone, I just remind you that when government officials defended it at the time, they said: This is the final list, but there were actually three items. I remind you, three items at the beginning were in the second reduction rate of 10 percent, namely medications, books and child food. And now if we look at about six tax periods, who was right, whether that list is final, or whether it will increase every time VAT opens, we know what the answer is. The rhetorical question is that even your governments could reduce the 10% difference between the reduced VAT rate to the vast majority of food and the VAT rate in Poland. You didn't come to this, I'm not gonna criticize you for it, just think of it as a fact. At this point, I confirm that we are having a debate, you know in the long term also from my amendments in the past two parliamentary periods, that I am a supporter of two rates, not three rates. And because the vast majority of food is at the 15% rate if - and I underline the word if - and I do not know what the outcome of political negotiations will be either within the government coalition or within the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate. If we went to a reduced VAT rate, there is no doubt that the vast majority of food would fall the rate, but what I said at the beginning is true. I don't think it would show up at the end price. It could be the result. The reasoning that is legitimate, which is repeatedly returning, let us divide VAT into basic foods and others, comes across what is essential food. I think we can lead an endless struggle for what is essential food and what is not. At the moment, if we approach this as the Czech Republic - I don't really mean the political connotation of who is in favour of, who is against - I think we will ignite an endless debate by producers, where the food will not be labeled basic, which means that it will have a different VAT rate than for the basic ones, that their product is also a basic food. In my opinion, we would be witnessing a number of disputes, such as with the Financial Administration, whether VAT is correctly applied, whether that definition, whether that particular product fits the definition. I know that there are tariff codes and the like, I think that everyone who deals with it in more detail is aware of that. It is - and now I don't mean it pejoratively, just a political decision, what will be reduced rate. For the long term, in this public space over the last few months, I'm saying that we should have two, basic debates, or three, for VAT. The first debate, which, in my opinion, is most important to me, which products which services are to be at a reduced rate and which are to be at a basic rate. Now let's ignore European harmonisation, let's take that as a fact, so we can't do it somewhere, so let's just take it as a fact, there's no point in us not following this in our national debate, we have to follow it. At the moment of consensus - and I would quite like to debate with the opposition, or the opposition - I always want to debate - that we agree which products and services are to be at a reduced rate, the second debate is on whether the rate is to be one, two, some states have three. Specifically, one European State has one basic rate, no reduced and reduced are one or two, three and there is no universal answer which model is better. So if we agree on which products and services are to be at a reduced rate, that would be a great success, and then let's talk about whether there should be one or two. When we say that two, we will have a political debate about the distribution of these services and products, on which we have already agreed that they should be at the reduced rate to be in the first reduction and to be at the second reduction rate. And when we agree on this, I'd say the media's most interesting number, which rate we're going to give either in one down, and in the case of two in the first down and in the second down. I think if this turns around and starts to talk about what happens first, if a particular product goes from one to another or until the third, we're just gonna cloud the debate. What is really important is what I think and I think that most tax experts think: VAT is not supposed to be a social policy instrument, because everyone pays VAT regardless of their income or property situation. Of course, we'll find exceptions. If I take the first reduced rate, the three items, we also have food there, and I think it's justified, it's justified, and it's right. That means, you can't put it that way, because there's a health aspect, and these particular products are bought by a select group that has to buy them for health reasons. There is no choice whether I buy it or not, whether I buy a better product or less quality or average quality. You just don't have a choice there for medical reasons. That's where the state is supposed to acknowledge this and put a reduced rate on it. I think we all understand that. Other things are to be the tool of social policy - income tax, social system, social welfare system. So the area, for example, zero VAT - I do not want to go back to the debates that you and the President of your club have been running for a long time about the zero energy rate - this advantage is being consumed by everyone regardless of the social situation. This is a disadvantage and an advantage of VAT. I am convinced - and now I speak only for myself, I am not speaking for the government - that VAT is not meant to be a means of social policy, that we have other instruments for this. I tried to describe in that reply my reasons why I do not support the temporary reduction, because, just to sum up, it is almost certain that this will not be fully reflected in the price, that is absolutely certain, we can speculate about how much - yes, this will be positively reflected, for example, by stopping the price increase and thus in the sense that inflation will be lower. [[9.30 hours]] But the moment that the temporary is over, the exact opposite procedure applies, the prices will return, and thus inflation will rise. We saw this when zero VAT on energy became normal VAT on energy. We saw this last year, and now I don't really appreciate it politically, when the austerity tariff, which actually worked the same way, that is, inflation decreased for three months, we remember our debates, but when the austerity tariff stopped, prices went back and inflation went up. So, of course, the temporaryity has an impact on inflation, such a temporary measure, and that is a true argument, temporarily reducing inflation rates, but increasing again after the end of the temporary period. A completely different debate is about a permanent solution, for example, that something that has a higher rate today has a consistently lower rate - that is the political debate: if we say that this is a product or service that should be permanently at a lower rate, it has anti-inflationary, or it reduces inflation, permanently. There won't be a moment in three, five, six months when VAT returns to its original level. There, of course, it is the other way around. So I avoided political opinions in that answer today in my speech, rather I tried to present my proposal that temporary is, in my opinion... that temporary is not the solution. And let us discuss this together in various forums, which services and products are to be at a reduced rate, whether we should have one or two rates of reduced VAT, and then discuss how high the rate should be, whether one or two, how high the value of one or two reduced VAT rates should be. This is how I try to have this debate. I think it's understandable that you will understand this, because you were also sitting in the coalition government, that it is necessary to conclude the debate first within the government coalition, and then you can negotiate with the opposition, because otherwise the debate would be much more difficult. You were three coalition partners in the first government, two in the second formally, but since you were a minority government, you had to seek logical support from other MPs. So much, Mr kolovratník, in short, more arguments. It's not that I'm changing the answer that led me to this, as I see it at this point, and what could be the development? There will certainly still be a political debate this year at least on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, which will address the two fundamental issues that I have been talking about, which products and services are to be at a reduced rate, whether we are to have one or two and what the values of these tax rates are to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-001-145.u5	Thank you, Minister. I have now signed up here with a point of fact, Mr Carbol. No? Yes, so I'm going to delete you, and I'm going to ask if anyone's joining the debate? Madam President Schillerová. Before I give you my word, I will read my apologies: Petr Gazdík apologizes from 10 to 12 for health reasons, Kubík Jan within 11 hours - health reasons, Tureček Karel all day - health reasons and Minister Černochová all day. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-001-145.u6	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Minister, I would like to debate the budget, but I do honour the fact that we are at the point of Written Interpelation, I also honor the subject and content of the interpelation and I will respond more or less to your speeches. It was material, so I'll be material. Just briefly from the point of view of history. I was not in the first government to have the YES movement, but of course I know the history. Yes, that's when the first three items were introduced, you're right, and I don't know if it sounded like they'd be the only ones, I really can't confirm that. You were here - okay, okay, but also, as Miloš Zeman used to say, only a jerk doesn't change his mind. I think I can use this quote here. The time also came, the EET came, it was one of the factors why we agreed to expand the items on the third, I was already there, at the second reduced rate, because we wanted to help sectors of the economy where we primarily introduced the EET. You know, for example, we went through that gradual method, at least 15 percent of 21, and then we even proceeded to put them at that 10% rate. And the other reason - I've always been debating it, I've never done it so that I would look out the window as Secretary of Finance and decide to put down other areas on the government, I was debating with those sectors of the economy - the other reason was covid. At that time, we were approached by both cultural and sports associations, so we renegotiated with the gastros industry, and they simply considered the transfer to the second reduced rate at the time of the covid, when they were essentially crushed by long-term restrictions - which we can, you know, we talked about them many times here, we stood by it, in the end the whole world did it, at that time no one knew how it would be and what it would be, and after the battle each general - so it was actually one of the forms to help them. And maybe Mr. Kastner turned to me, and I'm sure you've dealt with him -- yeah, here's the minister, all right, I was just looking at where you were -- you've been dealing with him, too. [[He's turning to Minister Stanjura.]] He is a member of the Presidium of the Association of Small and Medium Entrepreneurs, a well-known restaurant. We're gonna be under the auspices of me as Vice-President of the Budget Committee, we're gonna be doing a round table next week, but I don't want to politicize it, it's gonna be more professional. Yes, you got an invitation - I'm glad, thank you, I'd love for you to come or one of your colleagues. If you come, of course, it's best, depending on your time. I'm gonna try not to stick the politics in there, especially people from the areas will talk. He's got it backed up by numbers, he's working with the companies that were involved in the EET back then, creating different devices for using the EET, and today he's actually learned to do some sort of analysis on that occasion. He will also provide various data, so it won't just be like this: We have problems and you help us, but it will really be supported by data. He says there is a situation where the gastro-region outside Prague - Prague is of course a different world - outside Prague they are starting to find themselves very hard in the grey zone and so on. But it won't be the theme of the EET, it won't be the table, it'll be the theme that they have really big economic problems, and they say: VAT, if it moves - I don't know where it ends in the end, your five-calice political debate, whether it's going to be at 21, or it's going to be at 14, we'll see it now, I don't want to anticipate - but he says: It's basically going to be the last nail in the coffin. And he says that whoever couldn't do it anymore, so he wraps it up, popularly speaking, and whoever's still handling it in some way is usually starting to find himself - and I'm talking, outside of Prague - sitting in a grey zone, but I chose only one segment. So we were watching by helping at the time, but we wanted to help not only the industries that we put in there, but we also put in water, sewerage, heat, these were all things that we watched some form of aid because they started rising prices, but obviously not as dramatically as now. I understand your position on the food. We came up with a proposal at the time in our twelve measures, let it fall, the VAT will fall for a temporary period. We didn't think about doing it forever - for a temporary period of time. You're right about that, and I've said it here in this place several times, that food VAT is basically the highest in the European Union today. If you even lower it to 14 per cent, it will still be the highest in the European Union, which will undoubtedly keep the strings. You are right that we could move, our government - we solved other problems, we could of course, we solved other problems, we chose this path. Once again, I think, together with you, we've abolished the super gross wage, we've abolished the real estate tax, we've made adjustments in other areas. I think we're the tax cuts because our philosophy was: we're going to get better taxes, we're going to take them out using tools like the control report. Thank you for keeping him. I hope it lasts forever, because that's where we really saved billions of that budget, billions. That's where the carousel scams ended up in this country. Well, unfortunately, you've canceled the EET, which, of course, is a mistake, and today you're aware of that even businessmen. So I wanted to say yes, it's a political decision. Something's gonna have to happen to those groceries. We think that the philosophy of fighting inflation, the part that the government could bring, was supposed to be somewhere else. We insist that this should have been the case last February 2022 with producers. Yes, it would cost some compensation, but we wouldn't get into the situation we're in right now. [[9.40 hours]] In the end, you yourself admitted, the Treasury Department, on Friday, what was said here by me, from my colleagues several times, that you would not collect on those two taxes what you wrote in your budget, or that you finally admit it. I think he met the Committee on Budget Forecasts yesterday, I haven't seen the press release yet, so I'm sure I'll study it, and he'll certainly confirm it. So it's all about the beginning, sometimes in the beginning it was supposed to start, not to make these huge increases here at all, and now we're catching the cat by the tail. So I personally think I understand what you're saying here, I understand your opinions. I think that politically - I am ready to have fun again at any time - I am reopening it - but I think that we will meet politically in this area, as we are meeting in those others, that is a regular political debate. I don't mind other things, I don't care about the budget, but we'll talk about that in a different place and in more detail, now it's not the right platform. But something should happen, because the food in our country is really out of control, and you say, "We had a debate." I'm not opening it now, it was a regular clash of two legal opinions, it was a waiver of VAT on energy. You had a different legal opinion, I had a different opinion, let's leave it alone, we played it in the media, and you say, "Then it came back." Well, logically, we can't even admit that the food is going to be -- they're already slightly, there's a slowdown because the prices are already so high, no one would even buy it anymore -- so we can't just admit that it's never going to be fixed again. I understand that it's hard to go back to the level before the energy crisis, but it can't end with us saying, "There's nothing we can do, and it's just gonna be like this, and if we do something... We've always called for temporary measures, even with fuel, we said, "Do it temporarily." Temporarily, because when those prices come back, well, okay, okay. [[Response to a note.]] It's not true, temporarily. We have also taken a number of measures on a temporary basis, including in the tax area for covid. So I'm asking more. I understand your analysis, I understand your positions, I do not agree with many of them, I understand that you have given us some kind of attitude here, but you have more or less not responded to what my colleague Martin Kolovratník has asked, so what will happen next, what will happen next, because the situation is unhappy. I understand you don't want to go this way, but I'm asking what your path is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-001-145.u7	Thank you. Mr Vojtěch Munzar will now make a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-001-145.u8	Thank you. I would still like to speak with the response to the first performance of my colleague Kolovratník, through you. I think there's one more thing that needs to be said about what's been said here. You chose one commodity to interpelate - food. Food prices really bother our people, but you chose only one thing, one measure that is in Poland, but if you look at the overall annual Polish inflation, you will find that Poland has already ahead of the Czech Republic in inflation. Annual February inflation in Poland was 18,4% according to statistics and March ink 16,1 or 16,4 - now I don't know, I'm sorry. In any case, it can be seen that one measure in one commodity may have an impact on the price of the same commodity, but as far as headline inflation is concerned, Poland is indeed worse off. And what the Minister said here: it is necessary to realize that even if you are proposing or asking for a temporary reduction in VAT, each of these things is worth something. Poland costs more than CZK 40 billion according to public reports, this measure, and in fact Poland only postpones the increase in inflation. In fact, you buy a temporary reduction in VAT at an expensive delay in the impact of annual inflation on the time you do so. This needs to be stressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-001-145.u9	Thank you. Minister Stanjura is now in the debate, please have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-001-145.u10	Thank you for the floor. I would follow up on Mr Munzar, so we don't want to waste a dime. What is evident is that inflation in Poland is comparable to inflation in the Czech Republic. Maybe it's a month half a percentage point there or there. Media is the most interesting year-on-year inflation, but we are almost capable of forecasting this. We already know what happened in the last 12 months. I think that month-on-month inflation, which was the last 0.1 percent, is very important. When we published a new macroeconomic forecast as the Ministry of Finance, there is an estimate that annual inflation or average annual inflation in 2024 will be 2.4 percent. Yesterday, the Committee on Budgetary Forecasts, with all the votes present, I don't know how many were present, considered the forecast realistic. Now that we've put in place a debate on the extra income, we're still on the same page, and we can fight each other over the head with it. Our approach was that for extraordinary expenses, whether it was an austerity tariff or a price cap, forgiveness of payments for renewable resources, etc., we would use extraordinary revenues, not standard ones. If these prices have a positive development, such as that they have in the first quarter, of course electricity producers sell at a lower price, so there is a lower withdrawal from the generated energy price, but therefore a lower compensation. I know you don't mean that, but we have two options. Energy prices are going down and we're going to pick less, so we can say, well, if the energy prices are 300 euros per megawatt hour, we're going to take 100 billion from the charge from the megawatt hour. What's better for citizens and businesses? Redistributing 100 billion into compensation, or when prices fall under the government ceiling, and therefore - I am very happy - the competition for new customers is already beginning. It's just that we can see that the competitive struggle after the prices were so high, it wasn't really happening, you remember how much trouble it was to get a new supplier -- now I'm not talking about the supplier of the last instance, I don't mean that at all -- but as it was. In response to this, I would also like to ask whether you are working with the possibility of abolishing or at least partially reducing VAT to basic foodstuffs, following the model of Poland. I honestly replied in writing that I did not, and I tried to justify why not. Madam President says it will be the subject of a political struggle. Right, what else is going to be the subject of a political struggle other than the tax system, the pension system, which is why we are in other political parties, so we have different political views on key systems which finance, inter alia, services for citizens, on the other hand, the source of income for financing these services. That's what I think is right. It's a matter of interest to our voters. This means, I think, our voters - in the sense of the electorate of all the political parties and movements that are in the House - are interested in the attitude of their political party and their political movement on these key issues, which is - I rather took it as a confirmation of the facts. I say for myself that they should not be the subject of a political struggle of some personal insult and so-called things far less important than the basic systems. Unfortunately, we all, I don't know now, sometimes in a political struggle, let ourselves be torn down to a passionate duel, basically by detail, and then we have less time for a really good political debate on those important systems. I deliberately avoided the process of adding other items to the second reduced rate. For me today there is no point in saying what the arguments were for or against, I would even say that my political party voted in favour of some of those transfers. I'm gonna say, we're at another point now, covid isn't, and I think it's time to debate, as I've already said, what's supposed to be at a reduced rate. I don't think it's worth saying today, "The reason was covid - I understand. There's no point going back two, three years ago, now we're talking about a tax period of 2024 and beyond, and the basic distribution of the basic and reduced rate, what's going to be in the basic and what's going to be reduced. Yes, a certain clue and entry into this debate logically is that we have a list of services and goods that are down at 15% today, we have a list of services and goods that are at 10%, that's some kind of input or clue, but I think that the procedure that I'm proposing in a procedural or procedural manner is correct. First, let's divide all these products into two basic groups, and in the lower one, I already told you not to repeat whether there should be two or three, or one, and which product should be where, in which one. So I put the answer to the basic question, we just don't agree. There's nothing wrong with that. To the debate about VAT on energy, one thing is a dispute about method, we have - I say that if already, it's supposed to be the law, but that's not important, but I was describing here - and I didn't argue about the method - what it does when I put on some service or product 21 to 0, what it does when it's 0 to 21. So that's another dispute we've had, we don't have to go back to him. I've been focusing on the fact that when VAT goes up, it's definitely reflected in the price when VAT goes down, so it's never 100% reflected in the price, and we all have empirical experience that's just the way it is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-001-145.u11	Thank you. President Schillerová, then Mr Kolovratník, will speak with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-001-145.u12	I've only been for a very short time. Just a little point, Minister: the covid is over, but the crisis isn't. Maybe that's why we'll have the round table next week. That's just one segment where they're actually struggling after the covid, they're barely breathing, so there's already been energy, crushing them, and so on. There are various cultural associations that it will be annihilation for them... all of them still have these problems. It just didn't end with covid, the crisis. So take this into account. I will be very happy, now I do not want to delay this discussion, but I will be very happy - I asked the President of the Committee on Budgets Bernard to invite you to the Committee on Budgets, whether we do not burden the debate in the House, where the space is smaller, or we will not meet there at all time, to actually have serious and serious fun and professionally and at expert level, without political attacks, at expert level, on the state and development of the budget for 2022, or, respectively, about not including all expenditures, or possibly other fictitious revenues. [[2023?]] This is just one problem that started here, a big problem - 60 billion, the difference, is a huge problem. That's just wrong. That's no way to draw up a budget. And where my memory goes, no finance minister ever built a budget like that. There's no room for that right now, I'd just like to appeal to you from this place, if you'd come to the budget committee meeting, so that we can discuss it factually and effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-001-145.u13	Thank you. And now, with a point of fact, Minister Stanjura. I ask Mr Kolovratník to be patient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-001-145.u14	If we match time, it's no problem. However, since I am here in opposition, I think the first more serious conclusions on budget implementation can be made after six months. I said that in opposition, when they often asked in the paper what we say in February, March and April - so I said yes, but they are preliminary figures, it is not worth making any stronger conclusions. In particular, corporate tax is mainly due in June, so it changes, and so on. But if you want it sooner, it'll be sooner. I'd consider the debate rational after the evaluation in the first six months. To the debate - for us it will be liquidation, but there has not yet been a decision, first of all, and secondly, it is a rhetorical question. Do you know any group of entrepreneurs who sell products or services that would voluntarily welcome tax increases? It is perfectly logical that those who have already succeeded for various reasons good or less good to obtain a lower tax rate than others are prevented from doing so elsewhere. I understand, I'm not criticizing it, but when we have a proposal, I'm gonna defend and explain it. So far, there is no such proposal. Logically, we have calculations of what it would mean if a measure were to be taken - that is, correct so that no one can say, and now I am talking more about the government coalition and in this time and in future time for everyone, so that we know what it means to transfer one service up, down, a little bit down, what the budgetary impact is. That doesn't say whether I should do it or not, it doesn't say whether it's smart or stupid, it just says what impact it would have on public budgets. For VAT, we must recall that 65 per cent of the impact up or down from the state budget, 35 per cent of the impact up or down goes into the budget of self-governing units, whether we say hundreds, 10 per cent of the region, 25 per cent of the city and the municipality. Sorry about the time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-001-145.u15	Thank you. President Schillerová's priority right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-001-145.u16	Thank you. I am enjoying the fact that the Minister of Finance is here, and I will be very brief. That's why I have the appeal here to consider it, especially you, ODS representatives, who have always been pretending to be entrepreneurs, you have fought for them here - I remember, in the past period, I speak without irony, it was just that you have committed not to raise taxes - just to take into account what it will bring to entrepreneurs, to the individual segments. That's why the debate was going on here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-001-145.u17	Thank you. Mr Kolovratník is now on the line. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-001-145.u18	Thank you. Thank you very much, the debate is correct, I appreciate that on both sides or in both directions. I am glad that I have unleashed or prepared a wider debate, as Vojtěch Munzar has indicated, on the subject of food only, and the Minister has also spoken about it several times. I get it, it's very hard to get one moment out, or one part of the whole debate out of the whole tax mix. It is clear to all of us that this will be a big and difficult topic, especially for you, for the coalition, to agree with each other, we watch this very carefully and very carefully, and then, of course, discuss everything here in the House. I mean, the overall tax mix and the overall changes that we're still touching, I'm putting it aside. And since I brought the subject, perhaps I can afford to close it or evaluate it somehow. My first question to the Minister was whether you, as a government, want or plan to do something about the difference in food prices between the Czech Republic and Poland, in the tax case, in the form of tax relief. The answer was clear - you don't want it, you don't plan it. It highlights a lot of media performance by Mr. Prime Minister Štěpán Křeček's advisor, who said, quote: "Go shopping in Poland if you are worried about expensive food prices." This is how Prime Minister Petr Fiala Štěpán Křeček advises people. According to him, it pays off to the Pražan too, he said on Sunday's Party of Terezia Tománková on CNN Prima News. I'm not assessing or describing this performance, I'm just stating it. I thank the Minister for his reply and I will not propose any resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-001-145.u19	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for the debate? If this is not the case, I am done with the debate. The Member is not interested or does not propose a resolution, i.e. I am ending the discussion of this interpelation. I have a message: Mrs Romana Bělohlávková cancels her apology from today. We will now deal with further written intervention. Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura responded to the interpellation of Mr Martin Kolovratník on the parameters of credit financing for the development of transport infrastructure by the European Investment Bank. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 397. I'm opening the debate and asking if anyone's coming forward? Yes, Mr. Kolovratník. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-001-145.u20	Good morning again. I very much hope that it will not look like the morning one man, actually two man show - the topic of Mr Martin Kolovratník's interpellation and the answers of the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura. Our colleagues took part in the previous topic, I am very glad that Martin Kupka, Minister of Transport, is here. Of course, gentlemen, I leave that up to you. I guess the Minister will help or be involved in this debate, but I can't challenge him, but I'll be ready to lead the debate. I'm just going to do it again quickly - both gentlemen involved in the subject know what I'm going to do. I will remind you, in substance, that we have already pointed out here at the first, second and third reading of the state budget negotiations, the amount of 30.7 billion from the EIB, i.e. loans from the EIB to the development of transport or to the construction of transport infrastructure, namely the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure. On the one hand, maybe it's the so-called half-full and half-empty jar. On the one hand, Minister Kupka is selling this media, highlighting it as a success, as a new innovative step. Here - and I want to underline - I agree with him to a large extent. It's new, it's a new tool. [[10.00 hours]] I recently looked historically at the previous years of the railway conference that we are organizing. Last week we held it for the ninth time in Pardubice. It was, I believe, in 2018, when the previous Minister, our colleague, Dan Ťok, signed the opening memorandum with the EIB at this conference. It was at the time for the sum of CZK 100 billion. So logically, if I were to criticize such a thing with one word, I would be against myself and against the steps that we have actually tried and tested for the previous memorandum. I will remind you that this has been used in part - you are actually going the same way and I do not have the exact percentage in front of me right now, but illustratedly, and the Minister of Transport knows the projects very well - for example, the major reconstruction and reconstruction of the first railway corridor in the eastern Bohemia region near Ústí nad Orlicí, the so-called Blending Call. This is one of the huge events that is currently using EIB funds for this great modernisation, investment modernisation action on the main corridor. So here we are in agreement. But where we're not in agreement, there are two moments. First, I repeat again that you gentlemen have done a certain accounting trick, and you simply cannot deny that. Even the National Economic Council stated in its speeches that the vision - well, if I did not use the word trick, but the view - that it was a bit distorted, that it was simply not awarded in the overall balance. First of all. Only if we look at the two press chambers that we have voted on here, which we have voted on by vote, one sum, one line in the state budget, that is, the expenditure against which the line on the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure, the income, should be paired, does not just fit. The $30.7 billion isn't against each other. The amount is different. But so be it, it's a possible approach and we can work with it. But the second thing we're pointing out, and what I'm asking about in my interpellation is how we're gonna work with the loan. That means I'm not attacking now, I'm not criticizing. Let me remind you that my question was raised on January 10th, the answer came on January 31st. So now we are in the middle of April and I really have the information partial, partial, that there has already been some further negotiations with the European Investment Bank that you, gentlemen, are a little further away. So I'm actually going to add - or I'm going to specify three questions: if we already know when the first loan is going to be, when we're going to use it, or what project it's going to be, and what conditions it's going to be. Second question: If they get worse, if the interest on the loan is worse than it can currently borrow or use the state, how do you do it? So if you don't approach it and there's any change or modernisation, amendment, draft state budget? That's the second question. Third - and it is crucial to me, please: with whom will the future payments remain? Will it be the so-called mandatorial cargo of the Ministry of Transport and the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure? That means, when we do the budget in the fall, Stanjura will say to his colleague Kupek: So, colleague, here you have minus 10 billion, pay me back, I will not give you any more - or will it stay behind the Ministry of Finance and will it actually concern the budget and the requirements of the Ministry of Transport? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-001-145.u21	Thank you. Minister Stanjura is reporting for the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-001-145.u22	Thank you for the floor. I prefer written interpelations rather than oral, because the debate could be wider. However, Mr Kolovratník asked questions other than those in the written interview, there is one question. Do you have a backup plan? Yes, we do, if I wanted to be extremely brief - I don't have five minutes - yes, we do. Key thing: these buildings will be funded this year. I could go back to the fact that you signed contracts and didn't admit it in the medium term. It's an accounting trick, Mr. Ambassador, through Madam Vice-President, isn't it? A rhetorical question, it's the exact same thing. When I sign contracts, it's a mandatorial expense, that's for sure, because it's a signed contract, and I can't imagine the state not paying its obligations. The last question you asked was who's gonna pay off the debts. The fair answer is that taxpayers. No one pays debts or interest to the State except taxpayers. A prudent taxpayer may not care if it has transportation or finance. For me, he owes Czech Republic. The rest is a technical debate, really. I don't like that perspective. We agreed with the EIB that if we came to this step, the Ministry of Finance would be the beneficiary, not transport. But that's what we've said here, I think, on the budget or on any other interpellation. At this point, the decision has not been made, and there are three options. The first one is the one we negotiate. Of course, the relevant experts negotiate specific projects. No one's gonna lend you a bunch of money on the railroad infrastructure if you don't get it. These meetings take place several months at expert level. At this point, we have some specific offer that we have not yet accepted, and it is more advantageous than the current amount of bonds issued by the state at this time. However, we've discovered another tool that we're looking into at the moment, and that's a loan from the Recovery and Resilience Facility, that's RRF. We're finalizing the negotiations. I think we will send a final request by the end of April, so far we have made an indicative request to the European Commission. When I say the whole Next Generation EU, in simple terms, the amount of money that the Member States have borrowed together can be divided into a grant part - we know that as the National Recovery Plan, all Member States have - and then the possibility of lending. There are national allocations according to the criteria that were then approved. If a state doesn't exhaust it, another state can draw the rest from it. At this point, it looks like there might be even more favourable conditions than VIB, and then it would be logical that we would choose this tool. In other words, the money will come in and we will choose the instrument that will be the cheapest for debt service in the years to come. It will be repaid by the Czech Republic as an entity. It's not important which resort, but it'll actually be paid by taxpayers. No one else produces resources into the state budget but taxpayers. What Martin Kolovratník said in the previous interview is true, we're having fun in a wide tax mix. Everyone's a taxpayer, at least in VAT, so no one else will pay for it. There is no dispute within the government whether transport or finance or that because the government decides as a whole. So we're going to choose one from the three instruments that will be the most advantageous in terms of debt service.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-001-145.u23	Thank you. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Kolovratník will speak. Then Minister Kupka is signed up for the debate. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-001-145.u24	Thank you. I took it in the form of a factual remark. I have to defend us here. That's not true with the medium-term view. The so-called SDV, which we have always voted and voted together with this House press on the budget of the SFDI, is always done every year in such a way that, at a moment, that is, during that autumn - and we have it on the Economic Committee sometimes during September - all the actions that are agreed at that time, whether ŘSD or Railway Administration, and known and have the contracts just a year, two, three, in advance, are reflected in this medium term. So, Minister, the sentence that we had contracted projects for us and didn't put them in the medium term is not true. It was always done in the tables so that what is in the contract, typically the motorway section for two or three years, which in that year starts and already has the contract, is shown there. But logically, if there was a contract concluded in January, February or March, it couldn't have been there, because the budget, the medium-term forecast, was going to be in the autumn and it was going to be updated next year. Well, that's a point of fact only here about that one sentence. I can't agree with her.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-001-145.u25	Thank you. Minister Martin Kupka will now appear. Before I give him my word, I'll read the apology. She's sorry, Babišová. Andrea all day - family reasons, Bek Nicholas until 11.45 and from 13:00 - working reasons. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-001-145.u26	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, a very quick and purely factual response to the final factual remark made by Mr Kolovratník. What was it? The previous government, the government of Andrej Babiš, approved CZK 97 billion for 2023 in the medium term for the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure. Unfortunately, it is not true that CZK 97 billion could cover all concluded contractual relations between our investor organisations and contractors. More than 117 billion crowns would be needed for this year in order to really continue the planned constructions. That's the reality, that's all you need to say. Unfortunately, this is a bare fact, and this government had to deal with it. In the same way, we tried to increase the medium-term outlook for the next period so that we could stand it. And what I have also mentioned and is the result of the negotiations in the government is the introduction of the 10-year perspective of funding so that it is possible to prevent the medium-term outlook from being unrealistic and not corresponding to what individual investors agree, and what the Czech Republic needs to build in the field of transport infrastructure. I would like to add a few more purely technical responses to the upcoming EIB loan. Everything Zbyněk Stanjura mentioned is valid. However, I will add that at the moment the EIB itself is preparing the final approval of the offer for the Czech Republic in the board of directors. This should take place at the very beginning of May. This was preceded by an expert view of individual projects and an agreement on what could get into this loan, with the fact that we are counting on this year with a sum of EUR 1 billion, with the possibility that we can benefit from the funds in both Czech crowns and, possibly, in euro. At the same time, we have confirmed that the tranches will be in the range of CZK 1 billion. So we have up to 25 tranches that can follow day by day. If we could, in the end, sign a contract and start drawing on the loan, this is where it could be in June. I say, therefore, that the signing of the contract also depends on how we evaluate it in relation to the advantages of the frameworks and how we could possibly complement the financing of transport infrastructure from the RRF, so we must make this decision during June. So much basic brief information. I think it is clear from this that the Czech Republic's outlook is firmly in its hands and that we have a tool to finance all important buildings. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-001-145.u27	Thank you, Minister. She has now signed up with the priority right of President Schillerová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-001-145.u28	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. So the sum of the sum: 60 billion that we're short on income, it's going to be missing from the taxes we collected, that's what we discussed in the last interview, I'm going to let that go. We've been talking about a hole in the SFDI for six months. So I'm going to move on to what was said here. Minister, one, the other, you know, I think you were in the SFDI for the opposition, as I recall, so you've always been jerking us around here - I don't mean that at all badly, as an opposition politician, it was okay. [[Minister Stanjur.]] So the medium-term view is going to adjust somehow. Then, of course, there is some money built up, so it will simply be completed, then it will be updated when the budget is negotiated. So leave the medium-term perspective, leave Babišův's government and finally confess from your duties and your powers. You just don't discuss the fact that there are contracted buildings and there are over 30 billion missing. This means that the deficit that should be in the state budget has moved to the SFDI with me, which has also been pointed out by the National Budget Board as an independent institution. There's no question about that. But now about the loan. That means you want to bail out the loan - you just said here that when it's going to be, what it's going to be, and so on. You didn't say the point, you didn't say the interest. That's what we keep asking about interest and whether it will be more advantageous than if it would simply be lent on the financial markets, because the loan will have some maturity. I didn't hear him. There was a press conference. I didn't hear what the interest will be, how much it will cost the Czech, because it will certainly be paid by taxpayers, I agree with you, there is no doubt whether it will be there or onde, and that it will be repaid for a long time, it is also undoubtedly. [[Republic]] Plus, in the words of classics, you won't be here anymore, Mommy. So let's just be really clear about how these things are going. That's what we want to hear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-001-145.u29	Thank you. With a point of fact, Minister Stanjura will speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-001-145.u30	We said we wouldn't do politics, and now I've heard it and I won't react. All of this is described in the answer for how long. If you think he's negotiating with the other side by saying here on the microphone that that's the number I agree with that suits me, that's not how we negotiate. Minister Kupka said that we are constantly acting, waiting for the board of directors to decide, but at the same time we are evaluating other options. We are trying to make the tax payer pay as little as possible for the infrastructure. I said, and we're actually updating these figures on a weekly basis that the EIB's offer is more advantageous than what the Czech Republic is issuing bonds for today, either koruna or euro, otherwise we wouldn't have made it to this stage at all, and we would have ended those negotiations. There's a possibility of a new instrument, and we're looking into it right now, that's the loan from the RRF. Of course, like everyone who takes a loan, we do not only calculate the rate, but the total interest costs for the product, that means, of course, we assess the benefits of one, another or third, because there are three options. We assess the total costs, the interest costs for this loaned amount. At this point, the EIB is better than bonds, but maybe we'll find more advantageous than the EIB, and that's where we'll go along the way of RRF loans.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-001-145.u31	Thank you. I wonder if anyone else is reporting for the debate? [[This is Mr Koloverstvík.]] So I'm done with the debate. Until the debate? There you go. Mr. kolovratník has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-001-145.u32	I brought the subject, I started the quotes, I'm going to try to sum it up or close it. Let's believe it's gonna be okay. That's what we're gonna wish the transport had enough resources. As I said today at the beginning of my speech, I myself am a fan of the European Investment Bank, I was there myself when Minister Took and I signed the first memorandum, tried and used it for some of the individual projects. Perhaps I will ask, and it will probably be directed towards Minister Kupka: when you are before the final decision, by approving that you will go to the first tranches - and for me this information is new and interesting, i.e. up to EUR 1 billion I took here, that means theoretically 25 tranches during this year - so please, Minister, consider if this is not something that I would definitely point out to the Committee on Budgets, and I could also imagine it on the Economic Committee, so let us take a look at it. That's a well-meaning request or a request to you. Anyway, to close this interpelation here - Minister Stanjura said a sentence which is true, I cannot contradict it that the final taxpayer or the final person to whom it goes, who will bear the costs, is the taxpayer, i.e. citizens of the Czech Republic, those who generate taxes on those instalments. But I'm just still scared, and I'm worried that it's gonna happen - and it could be in a year, two, three, five - that it's just gonna become mandatory -- those payments to the EIB -- that it's gonna become the mandatorial cost of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure. In other words, when the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Transport are preparing their next budget, including the medium-term outlook, that the payment of 5, 10, 15 billion will simply be there as a basis - you can sort it out, colleague, then I will give you the extra money. Unfortunately, I didn't get an answer to this or any assurance that it wouldn't be a permanent cargo of the Ministry of Transport. Therefore, I would like to propose to the House pursuant to § 112 para. 5 a resolution that says that the Chamber of Deputies is not satisfied with this answer. I would ask for further written clarification and assurance that my concern is odd. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-001-145.u33	Yes, thank you. Minister Stanjura with a point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-001-145.u34	I think it's legitimate to vote on this, but I can't write anything new, not that I don't want to. We don't work that way, Mr. Ambassador. The idea that the government will decide to accept a better source of funding, and then we'll say -- you'll pay for it -- and there it is... So please don't use the winged Czech proverb in my opinion. I rule out such an approach. If the Department of Transport is going to publish a 10-year plan at this point and then, with the approval of the government as a whole, it's very simple. If I put the payment of any loan in the chapter of the Ministry of Finance or the Ministry of Transport, it doesn't matter. The important thing is how much money can be spent building and maintaining infrastructure, we can agree on that. And if you think our government will deduct interest costs from infrastructure-building money, that's not how it's gonna be. I can give it to you in writing, and I don't know if you want it with a notarized signature... We'd be lying to ourselves, and then we'd be putting less money on that infrastructure. And that the loans -- and it doesn't matter if the bonds, that's every year. The tax revenue will never cover infrastructure investments. And I've never heard of fear that it's going to be deducted from the SFDI budget somewhere, and I've seen it today and every day. We're just looking for a cheaper tool. That doesn't change anything.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-001-145.u35	Thank you, Minister. Minister Kupka will now appear. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-001-145.u36	Supplement: in front of all of us, in front of the Czech Republic, the task is how the mountain - to manage investment in high-speed lines, to complete the basic motorway network, and here you come with a debate whether for the first kilometer we should put on conversions or shoes. Yeah, we're looking for the best possible way, cheapest credit financing. But in order to maintain the basic logic of the debate, then we would blame you on the same logic that you went down the PPP route, which, of course, means financing exclusively from department money, because all those subsequent payments in case of D4, maintenance of the network, will, of course, follow the resort. But I point out, that's irrelevant. The task stands before the state as a whole and we must deal with it in a way that is naturally best for Czech citizens, for Czech taxpayers, and we will also be able to overcome the huge mountain of tasks as a result. And here I dare say that this really is a completely unnecessary reservation and a completely unnecessary spin in the wheel. It is up to us to be able to collect each financing instrument in the most appropriate way and we must look for more. At a time when, in a few weeks' time, we will be presenting the ten-year outlook, it will be clear that we will have to use other financial instruments, not only EIB loans, not only PPP projects, not only probably other commercial loans, but other instruments, as they do in other countries. And I assure you that in this regard we also compare models of financing the dramatic construction of the motorway network in Poland and other countries of the world, because we cannot do without it. Of course, we will be patient to explain, answer your questions about how far we are in the preparation of this financing, what choice we are choosing in this case, and we will certainly present this also on the Economic Committee and on the Committee on Budgets, so that you can look into the conditions of this in the result of the credit chosen. But if you're going back to who it is, whether it's a resort or a state, I assure you again that in light of the enormous task of the Czech Republic, this is a second-rate question. The first thing we're going to do is piece together the entire scale in the most reasonable way possible, the whole set of necessary financial instruments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-001-145.u37	Thank you, Minister. Now, President Alena Schillerová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-001-145.u38	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. We're not going back, Minister. Just accept that you are no longer in opposition, that we are in opposition and we have the right to control the government, and we will simply control you, especially in the light of the fact that we have 150, 160 billion flying in our budget. Well, don't be surprised we're just being cautious. That's all. We've just heard a commitment here, so you're dealing with it, you're catching a cat by the tail, okay, I understand. You said you'd close the loan, that it would be more advantageous. We just want to check it out, that's all, and that's our right as a opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-001-145.u39	Thank you. And now Minister Stanjura with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-001-145.u40	I'm going to react to the last speech of the Prime Minister. Not only are we at peace with the fact that you are in opposition, we are pleased that you are in opposition. Why would I accept that I won the election, we put together a government, and we sent you into opposition? So not only are we atonement, we are genuinely happy about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-001-145.u41	Thank you. Another one with priority rights or factual rights?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-001-145.u42	With priority rights, so I don't accidentally get cut short. Minister, to take over the government, to assemble it, means to have a responsible government, and it also means to have a responsible government, and in particular, in accordance with the law, to draw up a state budget. I'm afraid you haven't succeeded. So I say, it's not for everyone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-001-145.u43	Yes, thank you. Anyone else reporting for the debate? It does not, good, so I am ending the debate and I will ask Mr Kolovratník to make a motion for a resolution. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-001-145.u44	This resolution is simple and at this moment by interpelling actually the only possible or standard, it is therefore in accordance with § 112 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies and it is said that the Chamber of Deputies does not agree with the reply to the written question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-001-145.u45	Yes, thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We will vote on this motion for a resolution. I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby. I'm picking up an application for a check-out. I'm going to sign you all out and ask you to sign up with your I.D.s... [[Mrs Schiller is asking for a gong.]] I'm gonging. Yes, Madam President, I've been gonging for a few minutes, I think. (Laughter in the hall.) Seriously. I'm gonna ask you to re-enlist with your ID cards. Before the number of applications is settled, I will read the apologies: Andrea Babišová apologizes all day, Bartošek Jan from 12 o'clock for work reasons and Dufek Aleš from 10 o'clock for work reasons. The number of entries seems to have stabilized. We will therefore vote on Mr Kolovratník's proposal that the House does not agree with the Minister's reply. Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 113, 108 Members and Members voted in favour of 49, versus 56. The motion was denied. And I hereby conclude the discussion of this interpellation. Before we proceed to interpelation another one, we have another apology: Vice-President Skopeček apologizes from 9 to 11 for reasons of work. We will now discuss the interview - Vice-President of the Government for Digitisation and Minister for Regional Development Ivan Bartoš responded to Mrs Klára Dostálová's interpelation on the complaint for the submission of aid applications under the 111th IROP call. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press 404. I am opening the debate in which Vice-President Dostálová applied. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-001-145.u46	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. Hello, dear colleagues, colleagues. I had written an interview with Minister Bartoš for quite a serious reason, because yesterday I was approached by applicants who asked for subsidies under the Integrated Regional Operational Programme, and I must warn the honourable House that these applicants are preparing a mass action. That's why I think it's very important that we talk about it here today. Let me draw you a little bit into what actually happened around the elementary school challenge. 26. 9. 2022, four days before the announced challenge of IROP number 24 for primary schools, the Ministry of Regional Development has fundamentally changed the rules of this call. We responded immediately as a shadow government and called on the Minister to stop this challenge immediately and to discuss new parameters with the applicant. It should be noted that the original, of course possible, costs were up to 100 million per project and municipalities had these projects ready when they were already three days into the challenge. It's just not possible for you to change the mayor's challenge from one day to the next that instead of a possible 99 million, it suddenly drops to 35! What should the mayors do with these projects in two days? Aren't they gonna have one floor or a roof? You just can't do things like that. I am very pleased that the Minister has listened to our appeal, not only to us, but to all mayors, of course, the challenge has stopped immediately with the fact that the parameters of the call will be discussed with the partners involved. Eventually, they made a deal. Of course, there was indeed a reduction in the amount of eligible expenditure required for one project, but it was already in agreement with the territorial partners, so legitimate. The new challenge was then announced 1. 11. 2022 on call 23 and 24, and since the monitoring system failed completely, it didn't actually work, it was not possible to upload attachments and so on, so the call was canceled immediately again. Following technical adjustments, the new call was announced 25. 11. on the allocation of CZK 1.895 billion from European funds plus CZK 334 437 486 from the state budget, so the call was about CZK 2.2 to CZK 2.3 billion. The call was launched at 12 o'clock and the call was due to be completed on 3 January this year. 389 projects were logged in and the first registered project was registered in 12 hours, 19 minutes and 10 seconds, which means 19 minutes after the call was announced as such. And then, of course, the very thing happened to you when you were in opposition, the criticized click, because of course, for the first few projects in 20 minutes, all the allocation was exhausted, the projects clicked like wild ones. I must say that by the way those applicants approached me - and only these sails here - just so you could imagine it was 143 projects - they filed a complaint against how those projects could be registered at the Ministry of Regional Development. [[He's pointing.]] I'm just gonna pick a few quotes, I'm not gonna read you 143 comments from each community, but just to give you an idea, I'm really gonna read a few complaints. For example, the municipality of Dolní Němčí: "Totally amateur procedure and proof of the inability of MMR to set transparent conditions for evaluation of the quality and need of projects. Why did the MMR change the terms of the applicants' participation? At the expected overpressure of applications, they were to set the amount of the subsidy, for example 50 per cent, to eliminate the purpose of the municipality's submissions.' Another municipality: "How is it possible that entities are called upon to supplement the mandatory annexes? We have honestly uploaded all the mandatory annexes in the belief that non-compliance is a reason to exclude the application." Another, here only halfway: "This is also seen as a great disadvantage for ongoing calls, which de facto favours applicants submitting incomplete and poor-quality applications at the expense of applicants who are honestly applying according to the requirements of the aid. We are joining the complaint on how to submit applications. Unfortunately, we have repeatedly tried to complete all the documentation. In the previous case of the cancelled call we were significantly higher under the same conditions." Another complaint is: "We consider the constant changes in the conditions for the call before it is announced and the whole process of submitting an application for aid to be completely non-discriminatory and, in particular, non-serious negotiations with local authorities and school contribution organisations. Clicking competition does not fully describe the quality or need of the projects, it is just a time point that affects many factors." Here from the end: "I don't even like the excuses of MMR, multiple cancellations, adjustments, delaying, smells of corruption. The set-up, when the challenge is opened at one point, the acceptance of applications is launched and only the conditions of the call are published, is considered to be destructive. Please consider the situation we got into as a school. We have spent a lot of time and money preparing projects, and now because of technical problems in the system we do not have a request approved" and so on and so on. Indeed, the complaints are 143. I would like to ask you, when I actually saw the context of how these projects were submitted, whether the Ministry, because I know that there was a meeting with the representatives of the complainants to actually discuss these things, but those applicants generally agree on about five or six circles of complaints, and as I have already announced, a mass lawsuit is really going to happen. In particular, applicants complain of unequal application conditions, non-functional system, monitoring system 21+, inequality in the case of project award of various scopes, contradiction with anti-corruption measures, contradiction with the main objective of the single national framework, contradiction with the methodology of the Ministry of Regional Development, infringement of municipal legislation and directly applicable EU rules, and then of course the obligation of the subsidy provider to ensure equal access to all aid applicants and a fair process in granting the subsidy procedure. And, of course, last but not least, they also repeatedly criticize a dysfunctional and unpredictable system. On 22 March, the meeting took place at the Ministry of Regional Development, where basically the main motive of the complaint was the time loss in the processing and filing of the application by the applicant, the time loss in the finalization of the application and the creation of a press release of the application, the different lengths of the responses of the ISKP 21+ to create a press release of the application in minutes. Of course, the applicants called for the Ministry of Regional Development to address this situation in some way. And I'm going to take a turn here because I understand and believe that the Minister will definitely attack that even for us there was a problem with the clicking system, because, of course, if all the conditions for the selection of the grant are made public transparently, then all the projects will just get a 100% point rating, and if you have a limited allocation, then you have no choice but to decide the rate of submission. I'm more concerned that you criticized us so terribly, but we came out of the situation so-called shield because we secured the financing of all the projects that got under this click call. It is all the more absurd that after these experiences, when everyone can learn from mistakes, the Ministry of Regional Development has reopened such a clicking call and has, of course, a huge excess of demand over supply. At that meeting in March, the Minister committed himself to seeking the possible sources of increasing the allocation of the call, whether from the state budget or through relocations under the IROP or other programmes. Of course, I would also like to add to the fact that we are certainly looking for some resources in this sense, because I think that already that the call was open at 12 o'clock and the first project was uploaded 19 minutes later, says something about the system was not quite right. [[10.40 hours]] The second thing that puzzles me is when I see this list of where the line ends, which is basically a couple of projects from all this success stories, so I'd like to ask you how you've treated the fact that someone hasn't really taken advantage of the fact that he's only filed a clean request without attachments to be faster on the starting line than honest applicants who have actually scanned all the attachments, recorded it to have a so-called full request. Because if it's that you've made it possible, basically, I apologize for the word, but a little "left" to those applicants that they've submitted such a bianko check, just a request, and then the managing authority has asked them about all the attachments - there may, of course, be delays, because before you upload all the PDF files, project documentation and building permits, and I don't know what else, of course, it's delaying you. So I want to ask if the Minister has done an analysis of the projects that are thus arranged in the front. That means, there really was a very small number - because I say the first request was 12.19 and the last request was 12.40, so it really is a big rush as the applications were submitted - whether you checked that these applications were complete applications, or did you really allow them to do that they would only submit a request, essentially a blank check, and then the managing authority questioned. Then they are really uneven conditions for applicants, because you should have pointed out all this: First register your application and then we will deal with some additional attachments and so on. If that's the case, that you didn't look after it and that there really were unequal conditions, then I think the applicants are pretty charged in the complaint. I would rather like to focus here on what the government itself had at its government meeting, on 12 April, when the government presented the material Report on the risks and measures for the implementation of EU funds. I know the House may not be handling this very much, but I actually have been dealing with drawing funds since 2002 including PHARE and SAPARD, so I am interested because they are huge resources for the development of the Czech Republic, which, paradoxically, should help the state budget. This means that our priority should be the drawing of European funds. It is all the more striking for me that I will read on the first page that the National Coordination Authority, which created this report and which is under the Ministry of Regional Development, has identified the possible undersupply of the 2014 to 2020 programming period of CZK 5 billion. What I consider to be absolutely essential, and I will immediately get to the IROP, which unfortunately in those tables is the worst of all, the National Coordination Authority has identified as key conditions, so that it can in any way be knocked down by the possible underachieving, sufficient administrative capacity. We pointed out that, of course, there will be overlap because the period 2014 to 2020 is being finalized, while the period 2021 to 2027 has started, and we have a National Recovery Plan. So really the burden, the personnel burden is enormous. By the end of the programming period, that is to say by the end of this year, because the programming period 2014 to 2020 ends in December 2023, it is necessary to submit a request to the European Commission of 128 billion, 128 billion! This means that if I convert it to individual governing bodies, it's double or triple what they've been doing so far. We should be interested to know how personnel capacity is provided to make it happen at all, because then we don't have to talk about 5 billion underdrafts here, but a much higher sum. If I look, to be specific, because I have the Minister for Regional Development here today, not other ministers, I will be talking specifically about the Integrated Regional Operational Programme. The Regional Operational Programme has asked the European Commission to pay 70.7 %, which means another 30.3 billion, which means 20 percent of the allocation of the programmes still needs to be completed. And here I would like to warm up a little soup, because I hope the former Finance Minister listens to me when we - actually IROP - said he would be a so-called collection program, because we had a lot of commitment. And then we went into a huge risk, a huge risk with the Minister of Finance, but we knew that it was necessary to help the municipalities that had prepared the projects, so we significantly re-warned this programme by some CZK 13.5 billion. And you see, the former secretary here, that we don't have to worry, because it looks like the IROP isn't getting any. So it's a good thing we re-signed because the Minister is going to have a lot of trouble getting him to finish. I don't understand why there are simply no challenges where projects are actually being prepared, so that challenges to primary schools in IROP 2021 to 2027 may be relieved. I understand that this is a very complex issue, that it is two operational programmes, but we have rules of flexibility, rules of under-up and so on and so on. Instead, the Minister invents new priority axes in the IROP 2014 to 2020, meaning the previous programming period, and has re-allocated parts of eGovernment, cultural monuments and territorial plans to a new challenge aimed at helping refugees. However, this challenge is not drawing on us and our cultural heritage is raging, so maybe it would be worth it to not really do things completely activistly, but to think about where the projects are being prepared. Very interesting is that we also have a big problem with how priority axes are drawn between so-called less developed regions and more developed regions. The less developed regions are all regions of the Czech Republic except Prague, Prague is a so-called more developed region, and the drawdown of Prague is only 33.7 percent, which leads to the National Coordination Authority having to put into the analysis or report for the government and the risk that they are not really fulfilled all those objectives, which can also, of course, mean a certain financial penalty. In relation to the IROP, I still consider it very important to draw your attention to the fact that there is a fluctuation in the Integrated Regional Operational Programme and the MMR itself. From 4 percent the fluctuations have risen to 8.96, which is more than 100 percent - at a time when the MMR is supposed to increase the administration of European funds in such a crucial way that it can only be done in the few months we have, which is about nine months by the end of the year to actually fill the 30.3 billion crowns. Likewise, the stability index has been reduced from 94 percent to 88.8, so I think it's very alarming numbers. We need to address these figures, and I would very much like the Minister, who also has identified risk projects worth approximately CZK 498 million, to do so, because of course he has a certain plan for the year 2023, in order to be able to draw the funding from the previous programming period at all to map the state of sleeper projects. Again, in defence of the Minister, I must say that he has one of the most complex programs, because, of course, he still has the so-called integrated instruments, either at ITI level or at community-led local development. He's got local authorities meddling with the state's organizational forces in all of this. But believe me, Minister, we have also been going through this development, but our Minister of Finance has been writing to the governing bodies every month and pushing them into the letter to certify, certify and certify, because the basic for the state budget was cash flow. [[10.50 hours]] All the more I did not understand how the government presented itself by saying in January that they forgot to certify about 54 billion. It's just not change. If it was 1.5 million, we wouldn't even be talking about it here, but those are big numbers. I deliberately drew up the state of draw 2014 to 2020 - and all of these documents are on the website of the Ministry for Regional Development, because I have to say that if something works well in the Czech Republic, it is the National Coordination Authority, which really, fall, to whom, simply it is his role, describes the state of things. I pulled the drawdown, last available, which is on February 28, 2023, waiting for the March drawdown, but yesterday I looked at the pages and it wasn't there yet. There it must be said that we have approximately CZK 548.7 billion in billed payment applications - now for the whole Czech Republic for the period 2014 to 2020 - in so-called aggregate payment requests, but only CZK 533. That means a difference of 15.4 billion. We really need to address these issues, appeal to those governing bodies, and I understand that the Minister has a problem with beneficiaries, that they do not make payment requests - it is necessary to set up ongoing funding. I understand it's complicated, but it needs to be addressed. And I'll just, for your information, compare it to the time when we were handing over operating programs to the new government. [[12/2021]] The secretary of finance was on the plus side! - 1 billion, because, of course, she also asked for advance payments and so on, so we handed it over to you with a +1 billion. And when I look at it just from the point of view of cohesion policy, I'm not even talking about the National Recovery Plan right now, I'm just talking about 28. 2. 2023 is -15.4 billion, which I find very alarming. I would very much like to take a short time, because I have a resolution prepared, and I have also stopped in the program period 2021 to 2027, which has already started for us, that - we have the year 2023, so 2021 really is a bit of a history - and therefore the horror was even bigger there. We have available on the basis of the Partnership Agreement between 2021 and 2027 503,1 billion crowns. Under legal acts, or under contracts, we have 4 percent, roughly 20 billion crowns. And do you know how much we're paid to the beneficiaries? 1.1 % - 5.5 billion. And how much would you say we have applied to the European Commission? Well, zero, nothing. So I would really like to appeal, first of all, to the Minister actually find some solution for the primary schools, because I would very much like to remind you here when you criticized here - and I have to say, rightly - the push-button, it's just a certain price for transparency, but we just got the money. So just to get your head around it. The minister here has now supported a very small amount of money, which means roughly 2 billion, but the applications are worth about 6.5 billion, which means there are really many beneficiaries, and now realize that municipalities have very limited budgets, let alone schools. They set up those project applications, it cost awful money, and we should try, just like we did in the previous challenges, to find the resources to fund primary schools. And it's okay, it's just that it takes some personal courage to have a debate with the Treasury Secretary about retiring. Just to see how it was for us, then. We have increased the allocation for call number 46 out of 550 million to 1.7 billion, the allocation for call 47 out of 1.2 billion to 5.3 billion, for call 92, which were primary schools for coal regions, we have increased from the allocation 265 million to 804 million, and in the context of call 98, which were hospitals within the framework of the React-EU, which we have criticised here, those push-ups, we have increased from 7.9 billion to 18.6. This means that all the projects for which they submitted correctly were funded - of course, if there were no errors, just all the successful applications. And I repeat that again, thanks to the courage that we had with Secretary of Finance Schillerová and we recommenced the program. And you see, there's nothing to be afraid of. We did over 13 billion, and you can see that the IROP is having trouble getting it done at all. So there is no need to be afraid, because of course, some projects naturally fall off and so on. Of course, I have a certain advantage over the Minister that I have been with these funds for a very long time, and I can imagine some cycles, and I don't want to be completely critical. On the other hand, there is a need, in some way, for the Chamber of Deputies to have some information about what is going to happen, how it will work, how we will ensure this accelerated drawing, and so I would like to propose a resolution that the Chamber of Deputies should adopt, and believe me that it is not politically motivated and so on, but I propose that the resolution that "the Chamber of Deputies urges the Government of the Czech Republic to make European funds for the development of the Czech Republic more efficient and speed up, and secondly obliges the Minister for Regional Development to adopt measures for drawing European funds that ensure equal access to all applicants and a fair procedure for granting subsidies'. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-001-145.u47	Thank you, Madame. Before voting on the motion for a resolution, I would ask you to read it again so that Members who are not in the Chamber know what they are voting on because I have not fully recorded it. And now the Minister with his response. Just for the record, I'm going to have to interrupt my written interpelation at 11 o'clock, because we're going to be discussing properly classified points. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-001-145.u48	Thank you for the floor. It's too bad we're gonna have to split the answer to the interpelration because it's impossible to react in those four minutes to everything. It seemed a little paradoxical to me, before I, through Mr President, turn to the Member, that the interpelation concerns one very specific programme, namely the programme which is actually managed by the Ministry of Local Development in IROP, to modernize the classrooms, not the investment programme for the construction of school facilities in the Czech Republic, but subsequently a substantial part of the reaction to initial interpellation was about things completely different - and I will say to Mrs Dostálová, former Minister, that she understands this, and that is why she can skate very well around it and fill things up from different perspectives, which, of course, are not quite properly described in a number of cases. So I don't know if I'm supposed to answer that interpelation or answer the Irop questions from the end, whether it's an old one who, when he's done, is really doing a lot of handy things with him, because you know what projects you're prepared for, which you didn't get to, what stage is new, or the Irop, in which we've already put 55 calls on the demand of the region, so that even in times of crisis, the money will be released quickly. From the logic of the matter in that period, the pumping is solved. In negotiations with the European Commission, we have pushed through the FAST-CARE package in our Presidency and the 32 billion projects that have been threatened have been withdrawn to those 5 and I believe that we will actually process this by the end of the year when the option ends. I wouldn't exactly compare those moments where the state budget could be happy to fill in, and I'm behind, to make up for things like the state budget, when it wasn't covid, there was no war, and we didn't have a deficit that we actually inherited, and we're fighting it like a government. [[♪ to ♪]] It's too late for that. At some point, the React-EU flew into the IROP program, 28 billion, which, of course, the previous IROP, which was during the past period, blew up, and so it has to be demolished and finished. Then there are different questions of relocations and so on. I will only come back again - and the last general thing to do: IROP programmes, cohesion funds, are for balancing regional disparities. They are not in their nature, although there is a significant amount of money going through them from European subsidies to regions, they are not supporting programs to save cultural monuments and their renovations, it is the gesture of the Ministry of Culture, nor the construction of roads, it is the gesture of the Ministry of Transport or the construction of school infrastructure, which is primarily in the gesture of the Ministry of Education. [[11.00 hours]] And now I would return to the question of the interpellation itself. This has already been said and quoted by Mrs Dostálová. We have met with petents or people who have had some negative experience at the moment with the announcement of the IROP programme, of course, we have dealt with matters concerning both written answers and complaints from individual petents, which therefore Mrs Dostálová has expanded her interpelation, and since the end of this is coming, I would like to say and lean on what this House has approved, including the votes of coalition Members, and it is probably the message that is important at the moment. Yes, in support of regional education and successful projects, which, of course, ended up with a footnote, we are trying to find money, in the House's resolution, which was mentioned here, the ministers of the parties to the government coalition also voted. [[- Dear Minister...]] And I... the interruption is about to happen... and I'm going to have to save the description of the problem for the next time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-001-145.u49	I thank you for your helpfulness in discussing this interpelation and respecting time. I'm interrupting this interpelation, and that's the end of the morning interpellation block. We will now return to the agenda. It is 11 o'clock, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, today's negotiations should be initiated by firmly ranked points from the Treaty block - first reading, points 94 to 101, these are House prints 358, 381, 382, 389, 390, 391, 398 and 399. And then we would continue with paragraph 92, House press 65, which is a contract at second reading. We would also, if necessary, discuss points from the News block, proposals and other points, from point 125 to point 137 inclusive, except for points 127 and 133. At the same time, I would like to remind you that at 14.30, we will be focusing on paragraph 146, which is oral inhalation. We will now proceed to any proposals to amend the agenda, and here I am registering a written application with the priority right of President Josef Cogan. I'm asking if he's in the O.R. to propose an adjustment to today's program, or I'm asking if anyone else is applying to the agenda? [[Ambassador Cogan has no interest in getting off.]] That means you're dropping the application for the agenda. Thank you, Mr President. Before we consider - because, given that no proposals to amend the agenda have been made - by firmly assigned points, I will ask the President of the electoral commission of Mr Martin Kolovratník to introduce us to the outcome of the election which took place on Wednesday, 19 April. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-001-145.u50	Thank you for the floor. I wish you one more good morning and I note that the House made one secret choice yesterday. It was a choice.
