ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u1	119. Responses of members of the Government to written interpelations We are the first to have a written interview with Secretary of Defense Jana Černochová. She responded to Mr Martin Kolovratník's interpellation on the hasty conclusions of missile intervention in the territory of the Republic of Poland. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press 364. The discussion of this reply has been suspended repeatedly, for the last time on 15 June 2023, in the presence of the Minister of Defence. As the Minister is duly excused, there is therefore no condition for us to continue to discuss this interpelation. Another interview is written interpelation to the Minister of Justice Pavel Blažek. He responded to Mr Ivan Adamec's interpellation with regard to the activities of certain law enforcement authorities. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 418. The discussion of this reply was repeatedly suspended, last on 15 June 2023, in the presence of the Minister of Justice. The Minister is duly excused today, so there is no condition for us to open negotiations on this interrupted interpelation due to the absence of the Minister. So we're going to be talking about another one. This again is the interpelation of the Minister of Justice Pavel Blažek. He replied to Mr Ivan Adamec's interpellation on the attempt to intervene in the constitution of the guaranteed right to interpelate on members of the government. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 419. The discussion of this reply was repeatedly suspended, last on 15 June 2023, until the presence of the Minister of Justice, thus continuing to justify the interruption of this interpelation, since the Minister is not present and is duly excused. Another intervention is an interpelation to Prime Minister Petr Fiala, who responded to the interpelation of Mrs Alena Schillerová on the issue of the lack of antibiotics in the Czech Republic. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 427. The discussion of this interpelation was suspended in the debate on 15 June 2023, when the time for written interpelation expired. I ask, then, because we will continue the interrupted debate, whether President Schillerová wants to propose a resolution?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u2	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I suggest we interrupt this interpellation to the Prime Minister's presence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u3	Yes, thank you. I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby. We will therefore vote on the proposal by President Alena Schillerová, who proposes to interrupt this interpellation into the presence of the Prime Minister. Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 108, 79 Members of Parliament signed in, for 64, against 1. The motion has been accepted, so I am interrupting this interpellation into the presence of the Prime Minister. Another written interview is an interview at the first Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior Vít Rakušan, who responded to the interpelation of Jana Mračková Vildumetzová on the issue of meal voucher flat-rate members of the Police of the Czech Republic and its civilian staff. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 429. The discussion of this reply was suspended on 1 June 2023 in the presence of the First Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of the Interior. The Minister is present, so we will continue the adjourned debate, and I am asking if anyone is joining the debate. Yes, that is so, Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u4	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that since 20 April when I submitted this written interpelation and after the interruption of these negotiations here in the context of the inclusion of the point of written interpelations, that the Minister of the Interior is therefore present today and that perhaps we will be able to deal with this written interppelation, which concerns the meal voucher flat-rate of the Police of the Czech Republic and its civilian staff, which we have been talking about on Sunday with the Minister, when he knows very well, and has trained me there since when police officers and civilian staff have had this contribution - since 1 June 2021. It is very good that they receive this allowance for eating. I think all cops and their civilian employees deserve it. Unfortunately, the problem is that they did not have financial resources even in 2022 during the government and the ministry of the Interior Minister Vít Rakušan and do not have funds for 2023. In 2022, they had to spend 250 to 300 million of their budgets, and this year the funds are not there either. The Minister of the Interior answered that he was aware that the funds were not there and that he would ask for an increase of 300 million in the budget amendment for 2023. So I have not yet seen in the government or in the government's programme that the budget for this year should be amended. At the same time, the Minister writes in this reply that there is a risk that, in the event that the budget is not strengthened by the 300 million, this allowance will be terminated and social reconciliation could be threatened. I would like to stress again that today we have police officers within the Security Corps of around 40,000, although it has fallen very much for the ministering of Vít Rakušan, we have already reached the border, and the civilian staff is roughly 10,000. So I would like the Minister of the Interior to comment on how this allowance will be done. Of course, in the written answer, I learned that there was an increase from 39 to 41 crowns, which is certainly commendable. What is less commendable is that today the regional directorates have to pay for it from their budgets to the present moment and, of course, at that moment, other things are limited to which the funds could be used. So I wonder how the Minister of the Interior will react and when we will finally see this increase and when the budget amendment for 2023 will be tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u5	Thank you. Is the Minister reporting for the debate? [[Yes.]] Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u6	Thank you, Madam Vice-President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not here to read my answer to this written interpelation, because it has been quite faithfully recapitulated by Mrs Vildumetzová. Maybe just a short recap for all of us. Prison service, customs administration during the last parliamentary term - that is, under the rule of the ANO movement with social democracy, supported by the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia - had a meal voucher as part of its budget. Even in the last term of office. Police of the Czech Republic and the Fire Rescue Corps did not have this line of state budget during the previous governments at all. They were not even paid in all regions. For the first time, this post appeared in the Police budget in June 2021 after negotiations with the then Minister of Finance, Mrs Alena Schillerová. The elections were in October 2021. So, throughout the past period of government, except for the last few months, police officers, police officers, firefighters, and civilian workers, there has been no provision for a dietary allowance, unless the Regional Directorate has done so individually. The budgetary envelope for this expenditure did not exist. It's just a remark not to say and interpret the situation that our government isn't doing something that the government did before. All I can think of is why the June term was chosen just before the election. But he was chosen, he started paying off. In taking over the office and sitting with my predecessor Jan Hamáček, it is important to say that the handover of the office took place very well, we sat together in detail over the Ministry's budget, so I asked my colleague where the budget line was for food, for the food allowance for police officers and firefighters. The answer was: well, it's not there, you have to get the money somehow, so we did. So here was a commitment, there was a commitment that didn't have a budget line. At that point, we continued to pay off the meal break. And it is not entirely true, Madam President, that it was only from the sources of the Regional Directorates. If we go in detail, during the year, a CZK 100 million was released, which went from the budget of the so-called small interior to this very purpose. [[9.20 hours]] At present, and you answered for me, in a not entirely simple economic situation, the following is happening - and this is essential. The meal voucher is paid, all police, police, firemen and firefighters in the Czech Republic receive this meal voucher, not that they do not receive it, as part of their salaries. So those police officers and police officers in the Czech Republic don't really care how this money is secured. But of course, and here I am telling you the truth, I am personally in favour of a system solution. I think there's supposed to be equality between the different congregations here. I don't know why there should be a difference between a customs officer, a member of the Prison Service and a police officer and a firefighter. That is why it is actually negotiated with the Ministry of Finance that the sum of CZK 300 million per year, which will be sufficient for both police and firefighters, will appear in the budget and will be compensated for in this way. We want it to be so-called from next year - and now correct me in term, I apologize to those who understand this better than I do - that it should be a permanent claim to the state budget, so that once and for all, for those other governments, we can simply close this debate on the mealtime, the annual squabbling between the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Finance. But the fact that... Once again, this allowance is paid. It's paid. Negotiations with the Ministry of Finance are ongoing, which, of course, is not from the logic of the matter for any government constellation entirely simple, especially in this simple economic situation. On the other hand, it is, of course, desirable to create equality between the various armed congregations, even with regard to the dietary allowance. And it is my commitment, in agreement with the leadership of these congregations, that this contribution will therefore be a permanent entitlement to the budget for next year, and that sum will also appear in this year's budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u7	Thank you. First, we will give the opportunity to speak to Mr Lang, who has a factual point. Then Mr Jiří Mašek and then President Schillerová with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u8	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Yes, Minister, you are right that, in some way, the contribution to each of the congregations will arrive. I was just doing a background check in two counties asking how it was with the food stamps. We have to realize that, in fact, there are actually 14 counties in the police force, which means that it is 14 separate accounting units. Each region just has a slightly different view of it, which means, for example, from the amount of resources it puts on it. Some give more, some give less. And when you mentioned that when you took over the office there, you spoke to Mr. Hamáček, so I'm asking, why didn't you react to it and put it in the budget of 2023? In fact, you could have already claimed that amount of money into the state budget here to unite it. Yeah, we got it at customs, we got it at firefighters, we got it at police. If it's the sum of CZK 300 million, I don't know, I don't know the amount, I've heard it from you for the first time, so let's actually do it to straighten it out so that we don't really go into other parts of the budget of each Regional Directorate, because then logically, the money might be missing somewhere else. But today the situation is that the cuts (?) they're paid in an uneven way, and it's really 14 times different in the police department. It's probably wrong. That means there's probably no conflict on our part. I think our shadow secretary of the interior is merely pointing out this, and he's actually asking you to somehow straighten it out. So let's make a line in the budget of the Ministry of the Interior for 2024, there's probably no contradiction, but let's add it to that for 2023. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u9	Thank you. Another factual one, Mr Mašek. Your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u10	Madam President, Minister, colleagues, it is said about the 300 million because it is a sensitive amount. It's always been a sensitive amount, but it's not that big a sum in the Home Office's budget. I am glad that you, Minister, said that the line appeared there in June 2021, although you questioned why. See if it had anything to do with the election. I can't take that opinion from you, of course. However, the 300 million is always found. Like I said, it's very sensitive to those cops, so we can do it. But when I heard your press conference about the question of the Czech Post, where you promised that the Czech Post would be at zero in 2025, so it would no longer generate a fall, but on the other hand, in the second sentence, you said that you were planning to send 4.5 billion in total there by 2026, it is also not a zero. So it's magic with numbers. We can pretend it's going to be wonderful. But you yourself have also stated on the OVM that you need 8.9 billion, which your colleague Stanjura wants to cut in your budget. And you said quite frankly that you couldn't do without that amount. You haven't been able to specify how much you imagine your savings in the resort might go down. I don't think she can drop almost at all. And you're playing a weird game here in this resort, which I quite see, because you've got 6,000 officers in there, you promise everyone everything, there won't be a reduction in the number of police stations, everything will be better, the post office will be perfect, it'll provide services, it'll be contact points for all citizens, for physical contact. In doing so, you limited the contact by 300 mails by cutting the pen, by one decision. [[Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u11	Thank you for keeping time. The Minister will respond with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u12	Thank you. An admirable thematic dispersal during the factual point, Mr colleague, through Madam President. I'd like to stick to the subject for today. That means we have an answer for an interpellation that concerns a dietary allowance. Well, one more time. But he wasn't paid historically. You know that? Under your rule, Mr Member, through Madam President. Not until June 2021. Because until then, I don't know, you guys haven't dealt with this? I understand that he was a coalition partner and all that, I don't know how it was, but last year, it was just the food allowance, and I'm glad that my colleague Lang here said it on the microphone and he acknowledged it was just paid. And it was paid in all regions in the Czech Republic and paid to all police officers and police officers. And I'm stressing that one more time. And I don't promise everyone and everything. Of course we'll be looking for savings in the resort, and that's substantial savings. There's x of the stuff to be dealt with. For example, the cost of wiretapping in the Czech Republic has risen to CZK 480 million not because of the fact that it is listening more, but because of the system set up by ČTÚ, how it is being paid off. I think we talked about it, too, and we were on the same page. Here, the meeting with the Czech Television may mean that we can find a savings for exactly the dietary flat-rate, which is 300 million a year. The ČTÚ meeting will actually take place in agreement with the heads of all choirs and services in the Czech Republic. These are possible savings, and there are a number of them that we will, of course, discuss. And that we want this as a permanent budget claim, yes, those negotiations are not simple, but we have always been able to deliver the money back to the police, and I consider that to be the most important thing. But once again, it's an ambition for it to be like a permanent budget line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u13	Thank you, too, for keeping time. Now with the priority right of President Schillerová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u14	Thank you for the floor. I'll tell you exactly what happened, Minister. I was sitting there, at the meetings, you weren't. Well, in those negotiations under our government, logically, you couldn't sit with them. So let me explain. There was no politics, no elections. On the contrary, as Minister of Finance, I was very interested in this, every resort. I wanted to keep track of where we put the money. And when we were raising money for the Home Office, I always wanted to understand where the money was going. And the money doesn't have bows. That means the $300 million was always there in the budget. That means, it was, even though they didn't have a specific bow, so they increased the money to operate and it was possible to take them. [[9.30 hours]] But, you know, there was this weird habit at the Home Office that even a minister couldn't, so watch out for it, because it took me a long time to germinate it. - I'm turning my back on you so I don't get rude, so I don't just turn my back. There was such a habit that I would compare it with the Treasury. I was in charge of the chapter of the Ministry of Finance, that's one chapter, and it has an economic under it - now we're talking about the economy - Financial Administration, the General Financial Directorate, because it's not a separate chapter, it has Customs Administration under it, the ÚZSVM, and it's going to be a budget, and I, as the Minister of Finance, of course, have agreed with those parts of our chapter that they're going to manage this amount in the year and that amount is going to be allocated to them. And it was allocated to them at the beginning of the year as soon as the budget was approved. It wasn't like that at the Home Office. There was such a lady - I had already forgotten her name, so she was a clerk and I didn't dig, but this raised me up, and it took me a long time to figure out that when the money was negotiated for the chapter and I just got into it more, I also dealt with the Director General of the Fire Rescue Corps, because I wanted to understand their needs. Both operational and investment. And, of course, we talked about the contribution. And there was always enough money in that budget to put money on these meal vouchers, the way customs got them, the way the Financial Administration had them, and she was just able to find it within the budget that we gave them for that year. But the lady who was running it at the Ministry of the Interior's economic department kept the budget all under her and allocated it gradually. So the police didn't get it in January, so they know, I got this package. Those firefighters didn't get it in January until I started overseeing it. The only way I could keep an eye on it was by asking: " Are they assigned to it? Does he manage the whole amount? So then it happened to me that there was enough money, which I even raised as Secretary of Finance, just after the agreement, after the negotiations, and then Honza Hamáček said to me, "Well, we won't have gas at the end of the year. I said, "How's the gas?" I mean, that money, that money, that money, that money just went in there. Yeah, but she was sitting on them, the clerk. And she gave it to them once a quarter of a year in her own way, just kept the whole chapter under her and gave it to them kind of with a hat in her hand to ration. So it wasn't politics. It wasn't an election. We always cared about the cops. We cared about customs. We cared about the soldiers. And they remember well who was in the governments, when freed from their income tax, freed their debts. They remember well who, under which governments their salaries increased. They know where the governments got this. So please don't bring politics into this. Don't drag 300 million crowns into this marginary, which she always had the chapter on, but there was a very strange, very strange management that I fought out loud, and I kept calling on governments to know exactly that in January they had this amount for a whole year. So the cops know. So I believe that you're gonna make this happen, too, and that you're gonna see to it that this doesn't happen. So it was always possible to take that amount. The fact that they said they put it somewhere else, and they said they didn't have it, that was just the problem with the particular officials. I wouldn't blame any minister, nor you, I suppose. And on that note, I'm gonna stick to the food. But if you're ordered to cut, the cut that you haven't planned so far in the first weird plan, the finance minister, the food stamps, that's the minimum you'll be dealing with.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u15	Thank you. With a factual remark, Minister Rakušan will respond. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u16	Thank you, Madam President, for your explanation, through Madam President. Well, one comment. Now let's stick to the facts. And here I hope that even those who see in the congregation will give me the truth. Let's level with reality. You're saying -- it did matter, we were guarding, we were supervising, there was a problem in the system. I understand there was a minister from another side. I understand you can't see where the individual money goes from the finance secretary to the individual resorts in detail. And I wouldn't ask you to. I'm just comparing the facts and reality of the lives and paychecks of police officers, police officers, firefighters and firefighters in the government before June 2021, almost the entire term without three months, and now. At that time, the vast majority of them did not receive their food allowance. I didn't. I don't know why the Home Office didn't care, I don't know. I'm not looking for the causes, and I'm not able to find them either. All I'm saying is that under our rule, there wasn't a single month, one month, when police officers and firemen wouldn't get a paid allowance. We can talk about engineering. And perhaps you, through Madam President, have also recorded to me. You said yes, but there's always that big a resort of 300 million. That's right - it's always found. Therefore, they receive a paid allowance for meals. That's not why I'm saying that somebody wouldn't need gas. Of course, they have gas, and they'll always have gas. I am merely saying - and here I am in agreement with the Member - yes, let us give it a system so that the line is clearly defined, as other congregations may be. But for us, they receive a dietary allowance, unlike the former government, every month.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u17	Thank you for keeping time. With the factual remark of President Schillerová, is she registered? [[He doesn't want to get out. Mrs Mračková Vildumetz goes to the counter.]] Are you going with the facts? No, then we must prefer... You canceled, okay. So, Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u18	So I, in the context of the general debate, would like to respond to Mr Rakušan's speech. In the introduction, I'd like to say that he's not telling the truth again when I dare say he's lying here again. 'Cause he's here saying that in 2022, the meal break was paid. Yes, Minister, but you yourself admitted that you didn't give them the funds through the Ministry of the Interior, that all the Regional Directorates had to pay for it from their budget. You admitted here that you may have sent $100 million out of that $300 million. So, yes, they had it covered, but they had to pay for it from their budgets. There's no way they got it from the Home Office. At the same time, I must say that for your leadership, for your ministering, police officers are leaving the police force. Never in the last five or six years have so many policemen left the security force, we're already at 39,500. The spreadsheets are about 46,000. That means we're good at recruiting, but a lot of cops are leaving. And it must be taken into account that the age structure - almost 60 percent is older than 50 years of age. I have to say, I didn't actually get the answer. I still want to know... You're saying there's been communication with the Treasury. Well, that's great! But I'd like to know when there's gonna be an amendment to the 2023 budget, where I'm gonna see in the line that 300 million police officers get to eat. You haven't answered that to me until now. You're saying there's still some communication going on and there's some squabbling going on and these cops are getting it. Yes, I repeat, they do. But he's paying for it from his budget because the Interior Minister, Vít Rakušan, couldn't enforce it in the context of the 2023 budget, and in that chapter and in that line, he didn't have it for the cops and didn't enforce it! And that's just the fact that it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u19	Thank you. The Minister of Rakušan will respond with a factual remark. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u20	Thank you. I'm gonna fit in those two minutes so I don't hold back the discussion and requests for further interpelations. I think it's really likeable. The representative of the party, when it wasn't paid in the past period, now it's paid, says that we're actually looking for the system - but it didn't exist historically. Okay, we're looking for him. I have a promise from Minister Stanjura that in July, we still have the government on the 12th, this thing will be dealt with systemically. [[9.40 hours]] But for me, the main thing is that they're getting the donation. And it's a little funny with the budget awareness of how it works, saying that Regional Directorates have some money, budgets, and so on. Well, that's the police's budget! That's the interior budget! How do we mentally separate it? Regional Directorates have some special money, and it's not the Ministry of the Interior's funds? Isn't that from the budget chapter of the Ministry of the Interior, what the police are getting and what the individual regional directorates are getting? What are we thinking? Is the regional directorates getting something directly from the Ministry of Finance with some kind of special budget line? That's the police's budget. And even here, Mrs Schillerová said, it's such a big resort that the money is always found in the police's budget. I say yes, it's such a big resort that the money is always there for us. We pay the money every month, find it in the future. We just want to make it systematic so that the access to finance is transparent and we avoid any constant transfer of funds. Yes, we do, that's our common ambition. But let's not separate the county directorate's budget from the Home Office's budget. One and the same.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u21	Thank you. Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová has signed up with the facts. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u22	Thank you for the floor. So, Minister, again, what you're writing to me in response to the written interpellation. For the following period until the end of 2023, the Ministry of the Interior and the Police of the Czech Republic currently do not have the necessary financial resources to ensure payment of the food allowance. I want an answer from you when they will have and when you will bring, as government, an amendment to the budget for 2023 and a guarantee that there will be funds in this proposal to feed police officers. I think it's awfully simple, but you still haven't answered my question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u23	Thank you. The Minister will respond with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u24	First of all, Madame, I give the police and police officers the guarantee in question, which is essential and important to them, and that is that the dietary allowance will be paid, paid and always paid under this government. That's the first thing. Second thing. I answered, we just have to listen to each other. I said in July, we can check it out, the system will be set up so that you'll be happy. On the other hand, what I said in my reply is simply yes, yes, CZK 300 million in addition to the budget means that the situation will be clear, simpler, and the money will be transparently intended for this purpose and will not have to look elsewhere in the police budget as we do until now. But no one denies it, there's no contradiction. I'm just saying, let's not artificially separate the budgets of Regional Directorates from the budget of the interior. There's just no such thing. That's the Home Office's budget, and that's where we always found the food money. But a clear answer - within July.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u25	Thank you. It is also registered with Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová's factual remark, then Mr Lang.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u26	Thank you. Just a few more reactions. I really like the way the Home Secretary is making excuses for this contribution since June 2021. I just want to say, I hope you know, Mr. Secretary, since when are you at the Home Office? Since December 2021. So it's a little smiling that you're making excuses here for not having enough money to feed police officers in 2022 and 2023, and you're blaming it on someone else entirely other than yourself that you're incapable of putting it in your budget for both 2022 and 2023. I still don't understand. You probably don't know that we're already in 2023, that it's gonna be July, and that if there's an amendment to the budget for 2023 - if it's even approved - it's gonna take as long as it takes. If there's a process, it has to go to the committee and so on. I'm still asking you to answer when it's going to be on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, or when it's going to be on the government, and I'm asking you to guarantee that you're going to have the 300 million in that proposal. That's not what you've given me until now in your performances.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u27	Thank you. Mr Hubert Lang will now make a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u28	Thank you, Minister. I would like to say here that if we see some amendment of the state budget for 2023 - the Minister said it here - so if there is a chapter in the budget of the Ministry of the Interior, which will include this means of food, that it should be financed backwards from January, which the regional directors are actually giving from some of their budget chapter, then we will only be happy. If the system is set up so that the box appears from budget 2024, although it will go to other governments and so on, it will be good again, because it was, as I say, 13 or 14 times different. Of course, Minister, the budget is as if it is not, but every regional directorate has some volume of people, it has some volume of buildings, it has some volume of vehicles, it has some volume of other activities, and somehow there is a large set of activities, I can't deny it, the funds of the Ministry of the Interior, and then every regional director gets a certain budget of money, some volume package from which he finances his priorities. It was also different in the history of the police, but today, in fact, every regional directorate is basically partly autonomous and the regional director is responsible for keeping the amount of funds per number of people over the number of services, the number of cars, the number of other things. When it happened that some of the budget was actually tense - and was tense many times in the years when I served in the police - the regional directors were actually evaluated whether they would keep it or not. All we're saying here is that we're worried if there are any austerity measures that will certainly touch the Ministry of the Interior's department, so that somehow the first, in quotation marks, the victims aren't exactly some kind of allowance for the cop's diet, because we've seen it in the past. If you're here on the microphone and on the cameras guarantee that it won't happen, that from 2024 the budget chapter will be there, then good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u29	Thank you for keeping time. Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová is applied for in fact. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u30	I have yet to respond to what my colleague Hubert Lang has just said. The information we are receiving - I have also not received the answer until now - so they say that there should be a reduction in the number of civil servants within the Police of the Czech Republic. There is a huge negative perception of how this will be dealt with within the Police of the Czech Republic, because those employees also have an important role to play there. This means that this will also be a big problem, and I do not know at all, until now the Minister of the Interior has not said anything about this at all. Well, I don't know if the Minister will respond anymore, but I have to say that I haven't received the answer from him. I don't know when, if it does, the budget amendment for 2023 will be submitted. And I certainly didn't get the answer and the guarantee that there would be funds for the food. So I will wait until then, Madam Vice-President, I will make a motion for a resolution. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u31	Thank you. The Minister will respond, properly. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u32	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I don't know, I've got enough witnesses here who seem to be perceiving and perceiving that I've been trying to respond from the start, reacting. I already thought, Madame, that I would not react now, because I felt that everything was important and substantial. I have been called upon to do so, I would consider it rude to ignore this challenge. Let's do it again. During the month of July - once again when we listen to each other, perhaps you weren't paying attention before - this situation will be dealt with at the government level. Yes? That's the answer to that particular question. [[9.50 hours]] I don't know how else to answer that. You keep telling me, through Madam President: you have not answered me when it will be! For the second time here, for the third time, it will be dealt with at the government level within July. Answer number one, maybe we've already heard each other, and it's pretty clear, and I'd say it's clear, the time of July is quite precisely defined. Then the second answer to your question, which still concerns whether it will be reimbursed. Yes, it will be the same as it was in previous years, as it always will in my ministry - which I know when it began in December 2021. And I would like to thank Mr Lang, who, I feel, listened to the answers, so he responded factually to what I said here. And that's that they'll appreciate it in the future if it turns up as a budget line. And I say, that's ambition. This is the ambition I have just to prevent any financial transfers within the year that some money will be sent from the Ministry of the Interior to the Regional Directorates and so on. We want the system, it would be good if it went across the government. It's a thing that doesn't have as much political content in it as it does. It is security and security for police officers, firefighters in the Czech Republic, that what other congregations are entitled to in the long term will also be entitled to. And the food allowance will be paid to them, I stress, just like today, just like last year, with some more transparent and predictable funding system. And I even give the Member, President Schillerová, the truth, yes, indeed, in many ways, the huge Ministry of the Interior department had set up the funding systems and the flow of funds in a very transparent manner. And that's why we're trying, from the position of the Ministry of the Interior, to actually specify the individual items to the maximum detail. And that's why we want to put into this detail that there's exactly allocated money for a dietary allowance, even if it's a resort like the Ministry of the Interior, he's found them and he's sure to find them. I don't think I'm really gonna respond now, no matter what the point is. I am counting on you to read a resolution, my colleague, and we are going to vote on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u33	Thank you. Your speech, Minister, raised two factual points, first Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová, then Mr Mašek. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u34	So, Minister, you're saying that in July you'll be discussing this with the government. I don't know what guarantee I have of what you're saying here. Because when my colleague Jirka Mašek opened the transformation of the Czech Post today, you are here, in quotation marks, to spill a little like hell. What... we're talking about nothing else. I just wanted to tell you that in March I asked you to sit down at the Czech Post office to deal with the closure of 300 branches. And what did you text me? That the transformation project in April and June will also be consulted by representatives of the parliamentary opposition. And, hey, yesterday, the transformation of the Czech Post was approved by the government. There's not even a comma in the EKLEP, no one knows anything about it from the opposition! And I'm supposed to trust you right now that what you're saying here in the diet is going to be true? I don't know. Well, if you're practically not talking to the opposition, then I don't know what kind of guarantee I have. I think I have none at all, and I would therefore like to say that I do not agree with the answer to this interpelation through the Minister of the Interior of Vít Rakušan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u35	Thank you. Now, with the factual remark of Mr Jiří Mašek, then Minister Rakušan, followed by Mr Letocha. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u36	Thank you. Dear Minister, I am glad that we have come to the conclusion that this line will be created there. But it's really from my point of view, it's the 300 million you said the line was made in 2021, in June, then somehow the money didn't get there, and we both confirmed that the money was always found for the cops for the food. I've just made a call to several known police officers, and as my colleague Lang said, in a different form of 15 years ago, they just receive a food allowance, whether it was food stamps, or it was a specific allowance for meals and the like. So that's the thing that's solvable. You yourself said that it is possible to take it from those wiretappings that are overpriced at the ČTU for 480 million, and that you can imagine that it will cover food. But it's just a lot of grease. The big problem you said here, and you scolded me for him, that I'm going awfully wide, but it's all connected. You really promise at the post office that everything will be flooded with the sun, that it will be available to the service, that you will also be able to condone, that it will be at zero in 2025, and yet you will be pouring billions there, or planning it there. It just doesn't work that way. You promise that there will be enough services, that there will be enough police officers in the streets, but that is not a regular issue with the Ministry of the Interior's budget being underlined by 8.9 billion. You know that. And I'm curious about your negotiating position, and what you want to do about it. Because what's going on would mean that a number of the services that the Home Office provides will just crash. And say it out loud. Say what you need, what funds you need, or admit that those services will be reduced and the number of services will be reduced and that we will see what else will be happening in the Ministry of the Interior's department in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u37	Thank you. Minister Rakušan will respond with a factual remark. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u38	For the last time. I thought that my colleague Vildumetzová Mračková - they still invite us against each other in these debates, it's logical that we know each other well and that she can already judge a little bit of my emotions and she knows when I'm going to pour out like a devil. I'm being gentle and kind today. [[Fun.]] It certainly wasn't, it wasn't a hell of a flight, that. I'm just here to say that today I'm going to respond to the interpelation as it is administered, that is to say, a meal and a meal allowance. And I'm not gonna get provoked by any other kind of discussion, even if that's what you're trying to do right now. I answered the food as I could. I see you're not satisfied. We will express our opinion by voting whether it was sufficient or not. And, of course, I will follow the results of the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u39	Thank you. Mr Lang - Sorry, first Mr Letocha, de facto, then Mr Lang. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u40	Minister, Madam President, colleagues, colleagues, I have been listening to this for a while and I honestly do not understand this development. I understand that, Madam President, you were not satisfied with the Minister's reply, so you submitted this written interpelation, or you gave it to the House plenary. The Minister here has answered several times for me what you asked, and you are actually at the end, and that is why I volunteered, said that you are proposing this resolution essentially not because he would not answer you, but because you do not believe what he has answered you. And that, of course, is legitimate. Then the question is, why do you even ask, if even the question that comes from you, someone will answer it, so you will say, oh, thank you for your answer, but I don't believe it. For me, it's important that the cops and, in general, all the food stamps will be paid for. At the same time, the Minister also answered when this will be dealt with in the government. The guarantee was given not only by the Minister, but also by President Schillerová here and she said that the 300 million will always be found in the budget. So I really do not understand this motion for a resolution, but it is your legitimate right. But I really don't think the fact that you don't believe the answer means he didn't answer your question. Thank you for your time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u41	Thank you. Mr Lang withdrew his application for a factual remark. [[From the bench members YES: Vote!]] Thank you for telling me how to proceed. [[Laughs in the hall.]] It is clear that we are going to vote, but first, before we do this, if no one else is in the debate, I am ending the debate and I am asking Mrs Jana Mra Mračková Vildumetzová whether she is proposing a resolution by the Chamber of Deputies on this answer. [[She already suggested it.]] [[10.00 hours]] Okay. This means that you are proposing that the Chamber of Deputies express its opposition. I've logged a request for your check-out, I'm going to check you all out, and I'm going to ask you to sign up with your I.D. cards. I'll rejoin and call in colleagues from the lobby... The number of entries has stabilized. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this resolution, as proposed by Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová? Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 109, 91 Members and Members signed up, for 50, against 39. The motion for a resolution, respectively, was adopted and pursuant to § 112 para. 5 Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies... Do I still have a vote here? Mr. Mayor Letocha.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u42	I'm sorry, it happened to me for the first time in this House, and I'm sorry, but I pressed that I was against, and I didn't have a voting device working, and I'm questioning this vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u43	As he said, the voting device did not work. Yes? Isn't that right? [[Member of Letoch agrees.]] And according to the Rules of Procedure, if the voting device does not work, the vote must be repeated. Please, Madam President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u44	I think the voting device should be checked if it didn't work or if it worked... I'm sure we have surveillance footage, so I'm sure they'll check it out. I, the honourable Member, have no reason not to believe, but this is how it should be done.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u45	Please, I have a feeling that if someone said that his voting device wasn't working, we wouldn't have it checked through the camera system. That all Members were confident that this was what really happened. [[Big noise from the left.]] Please, if you have a problem, through those who have a priority right, you can comment on this. Mr Letocha said that his voting device did not work, which means that the vote under the Rules of Procedure must be repeated. [[Taping the desk with a card.]] Yes, I've logged the application for your check-out, so I'm going to unsubscribe all of you, and I'm going to ask you to sign up with your voting cards. Before the voter numbers settle, I'll read the apologies. Mr Bělor apologizes from 9 to 11.30 - working reasons, Mr Benešík Ondřej within 13 hours - working reasons, Vondrák Ivo from 14.30 - working reasons, Excellent Mark all day - working reasons. And from the members of the government, Minister Jurečka within 12 hours for work reasons. The number of votes has stabilized for us, so we will repeat the vote on the resolution of Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová, who has proposed to give a disagreeable opinion with the Minister's reply... [[Member Nacher reporting.]] Please, to the vote? [[No.]] With a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u46	I would like to object to the President's procedure, i.e. to you, because what has now happened here in this innocent vote is completely outside the Rules of Procedure. Even if it was beautiful, like Co-worker Letocha said, we could look at the surveillance footage, which you started with, it wouldn't change the ratio because it was four votes. So they always say it didn't work, but I'm not questioning the vote. It's always been like this. If it was a vote, you'd be right, colleague. I consider this a real abuse of when half the hall comes in the meantime. So I have a proposal, as I said at the beginning, to object to the President's procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u47	Yes, I've noted your objection. Please, Chairman Benda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u48	Thank you, I'm just a short reaction to Patrik Nacher. I do not question his right to object to the President's procedure. But please, let's not really say it's always when it's about the vote. That is not true, my colleague, through Madam President. When a person corrupts a vote or a voting procedure works differently than it was his will, we generally question it, and we normally allow opposition, even if it has 20 votes less. It's perfectly normal to allow. Let's not play this game. And if the MP says his voting device didn't work, I believe him. If you find the record that he's not telling the truth, then go to the mandate committee. I believe him, I will comply with his objection.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u49	We will now vote on Mr... Mr. Oklešťka, are you applying for the vote? We're not in the debate, and you don't have a priority... Or the vote? Yes? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u50	I'm sorry I don't have a priority right, but I think you'd be happy to hear me out. I believe in Mr. Letoch, too, because I do not believe that he would say anything here that is not in accordance with his will. But I'd like computer science to go and fix Mr. Letoch's device, because I believe he needs it, if it doesn't work, there's something we need to do with him. And if computer science isn't enough, then at least the club chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u51	I would just like to point out, of course, that such care is commendable, but it was not about the vote, unfortunately. You don't have priority rights. So I will tolerate this, but in future, be aware that you can only perform when you have the opportunity to perform. Please, Mr. Chairman Michálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u52	Thanks for the word. Please, really, really, really. It happened to me, too, that it didn't work... [[Laughs of Members YES]] Not now, but in the past, it really happened to me that the voting device sometimes goes out and then you have to check out and log in. There were indications back then that I made it up. Mrs Vildumetzová then came to me and apologized for seeing it on camera. So it can happen to anyone, let's not make a big deal out of it. Sometimes it can be solved by checking out and logging in, sometimes it needs the intervention of computer science. I just wanted to stand up for Madam President, indeed, the Rules of Procedure set out clearly in Paragraph 74 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 3 that if there is a failure of the voting device, the vote must be repeated. If the failure cannot be removed immediately, the House shall decide on a different way of voting. So I think that the President has acted quite correctly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u53	Thank you. Now, then, we would... Please, please, you're reporting to me with factual comments. We are not in the debate, so it is not possible for Members to speak with factual remarks, only those who have priority rights. We will therefore now vote on Mr Nacher's proposal, which called into question the President's procedure. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal? Who's against it? Voting number 110, registered by 128 Members and Members, for 49, against 70. The motion was denied. [[10.10 hours]] We would therefore now repeat the vote. Now I'm sorry, just a moment of patience. [[Mr. Benda off the mike.]] Vote again. Yes. However, in the event that it did not work, we do not need to vote on the objection, because, according to the Rules of Procedure, the vote has to be repeated. We will therefore vote again on the resolution of Mrs Mr Vildumetzová. Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 111, registered by 130 Members and Members, for 59, against 71. The motion was denied. I'm done discussing this interpellation. We would now proceed to another interpelation and that is the written interpelation of the Minister of Defence Jana Černochová, who responded to the interpellation of Mr Pavel Růžička on the purchase of infantry belt combat vehicles. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 448. The discussion of this reply was suspended on 1 June 2023 in the presence of the Minister of Defence. The Minister is duly excused, so the reasons for interrupting this interpellation continue to exist. The following will be a written interpelation to the Minister of Culture Martin Baxa, who responded to the interpellation of Mrs Zuzana Ožanová in the case of Act No. 20/1987 Coll., Czech National Bank, on State Heritage Care. [[correct: advice]] Interpelation, together with the reply, shall be submitted as a House press of 452. I am opening the debate and asking if anyone is taking part in the debate? Yes, Mrs. Ožanová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u54	Thank you. Madam President, since the Minister is not here, he is duly excused and I was informed of his apology in good time, I would ask for the interruption of this interpellation to the presence of the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u55	Yes. Thank you. Anyone else reporting? He's not reporting. We will therefore now vote on the interruption of this interpellation to the presence of Minister Baxa. I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby and we'll vote. I'm picking up an application for a check-out. Please log in with your ID cards again. We'll wait until the number of entries is settled. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion to interrupt this interpelation? Who's against it? Voting number 112, registered by 100 Members and Members, for 98, against none. The motion was accepted. I interrupt this interpelation to the presence of Minister Baxa. First Vice-President of the Government and Interior Minister Vít Rakušan responded to the interview by Mrs Zuzana Ožanová on restrictions on postal services in the Moravian-Silesian Region. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 453. I am opening the debate to which Mrs Zuzana Ožanová is reporting. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u56	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, I felt the need to comment on the reply to the written question. Maybe I'll tell you how this interpellation originated. We had a meeting, it was about the Czech Post. As I listened to it, and when I found out I wasn't gonna get the information in plenary, I wrote an interview here in this room, and I filed it. So much for creating this interpelation. Now to the interpelation itself. I only wrote it on one side of A4 and divided it into six points. For reasons of clarity, I will always speak to one of those points. The first of the points I asked was... I dare to quote it: Some analysis was mentioned in the press that led to a proposal to close specific mail offices. I request this analysis. - I was expecting an answer, for example it's not the subject of interpelation or anything. I didn't think the answer would be a bit of a methodology for doing something. When the analysis was no longer provided to me or anybody contacted me, he would say, Madame, this is impossible in the context of the interpellation, but we'd like to show it to you, I'd like to welcome that. However, instead of concluding some analysis, some methodology as to how something is done. Sorry, that's not an answer. If you have it under covert, such an analysis, then tell me it's under covert. I just point out that, as a Member, I could still take a look at this. So that's the first point. There was no answer at all. Two. I was accusing the city district of Moravská Ostrava and Přívoz that two branches had been cancelled, and information came out in the press that branch three had been cancelled. I was wondering if it's common, if there's been any lying. The answer was that there was an incorrect assignment of the self-governing unit to the post office and that it was received by the Mayor of Ostrava-South. Do you know the difference between Moravian Ostrava and Přívoz and Ostrava-South? Moravská Ostrava and Přívoz, it is something like Prague 1, it is the center of Ostrava. He doesn't meet the city district of Ostrava-South. It is a large residential character, it has over 100,000 inhabitants, 17 kilometers square, it is located somewhere else. I must admit that this information may theoretically be true, although I doubt its truthfulness, but I cannot disprove it. So much for point two. Three. The threesome is very interesting. According to unconfirmed information, only the mayors in whose municipalities the branch is located were informed of the intention to cancel the mail offices. The mayors of the municipalities were not informed, this is the municipalities in which the post office is not and which use postal services in another municipality. Why weren't all the mayors of municipalities affected by any cancellation of branches? I believe that this is also a very interesting question with regard to which political group the Minister represents. However, it wasn't entirely answered in my opinion in a sufficient way either. It was answered that it was sent to the municipal and municipal authorities under which the branch belongs, then to the mayors and officers of each region. The information was not sent to the areas in which the post is not located. This means that small municipalities that have a fallout post somewhere else, in a nearby village, have not been informed at all that something will change for their residents. So the information is true that not all municipalities have been informed of changes affecting their inhabitants. So in a way, I have to admit, it's been answered. However, let us ask ourselves whether it was appropriate to choose this procedure and not tell the mayors of the municipalities that the people of their community will no longer go to post office in place X, but they will be in place Y. It is up to us to consider whether this has really been handled well. [[10.20 hours]] Point four. According to the press, a hundred thousand city districts of Ostrava-South will be left with two post offices. I would like your opinion on whether one post office is sufficient for 50,000 people. You've all been talking about how many residents, but really this is an unprecedented case, 50,000 and one post office. I have been told that the counter is being used for an hour and in the city district of Ostrava-South there are 27 people with no age limit, which corresponds to the average in comparison with the other parts of the city - here I would say that we are not in Prague, but in Ostrava and we have circuits, not urban areas - to 10,000 people. Two branches will be sufficient for the city district of Ostrava-South. One branch per 50,000 inhabitants. However, I wasn't like some of them, I kept reading, and in a few paragraphs I learned... Here the Minister says that one branch per 50,000 inhabitants is sufficient, but - I quote another paragraph, I do not know why the following information was not present: in the course of negotiations between the representative of the Czech Post and the mayor of the city - indeed, Ostrava has circuits! In particular, the Ministry, which has oversight over the performance of the delegation... Please don't confuse the circuits and the city parts. At least in the Ministry you might know the name - mayor of the city district, allegedly, Ostrava-Jih, took place on April 5, 2023... the final composition of the branches in this part of the city is being completed. So in one part of my answer I have that it is sufficient, and after a few paragraphs, that this is what this is all about. I understand that the answer was prepared on April 25th, that there was probably some change, but it does not really seem credible if there is such a contradiction in one single document. Now to point five, when I wanted to get acquainted with the complete documentation concerning the cancellation of branches in the Moravian-Silesian Region, at least I assume information on barrier-freeness and momentum. So I've been told that everything's okay, I didn't get any documents, 75 percent of the branches are wheelchair-free, and 25 percent is on the button, which means 100 percent. But the complete evidence - again, it follows point one, when basically no contact with the Ministry, we want some documentation, so tell me - you don't have that, Madame, in the context of an intercession to claim it, it's classified. If it's classified, everything that's going on around the Czech Post office, please. Point six, last point. I asked, for example, a very important question for me from the point of view of the professional question: Will you be guaranteed in the event of the cancellation of so many branches of proper service to the courts and administrative authorities? How will it affect any restrictions on service opening times according to criminal and administrative rules? How will the delivery fiction be calculated in case of opening branches only two days a week? I'm told it doesn't affect the delivery, the delivery will be secured. I understand this view, however, one of those questions point six, how the delivery fiction will be calculated in the case of opening branches only two days a week, has not really been answered. I remind you that there was a lot of information going on in April, and one of the majors was - of course it does not concern the village where I live, because, given the size of Ostrava, it will probably be open five days a week, but it concerns smaller municipalities, where it was said that only two days a week would be needed. This is precisely what they consider to be very unfortunate when it comes to the service of judicial subpoenas and the service of administrative authorities, because that is what the Czech Post is doing - of course, a commercial thing, packages, everything, I will not really deal with it, but the delivery of such important documents is important to me. So I'd sum it up. I do not consider this answer sufficient. I've been trying really hard to figure out why this is not the case, and I'd like to ask the Minister for a reaction. I am glad that I have come to the floor today and colleagues who were unable to speak to the Czech Post in the previous interview can now clearly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u57	Thank you. The Minister is reporting for the debate. And before I give him my word, I'll read an apology. Mr Josef Kott apologizes from 9.30 to 10 for work reasons. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u58	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Madam, I will now be quite brief in my reply. My assessment of this answer is completely different from yours. You have turned to me, by means of which, Madam President, as Minister of the Interior. The important information I have given is that the specific methodology itself will not be and has never been created by the Ministry of the Interior as such, but by the management of the Czech Post. Czech Post set criteria. Czech Post has analytical materials at its disposal. And what I am sure to offer you - yes, and now you have asked for it - is that I will certainly convey to you, and I will be very happy to do so, dealing with the appropriate manager or manager in this case of the Czech Post, where, of course, you can be given materials that are not subject to any internal regime under the Czech Post, available to you and will certainly explain some details of the methodology. But I will not really be the one to say what specific criteria the Czech Post has chosen to cancel the branch. I have no reason not to believe that, in about five cases, if I remember correctly, in the evaluation and perhaps in the ignorance of some local tax, there really was some error. You were not the only one in the mail and, indeed, a re-evaluation of the decision was made when valid arguments were put forward by local authorities. I can find out the number of cases in which this was the case, but there is no reason not to believe this argument of the Czech Post. I'm sure you have one apology, and here you are right, and I completely acknowledge that the officials of the Ministry of the Interior who prepared the answer shouldn't really confuse Ostrava districts with urban areas, and I'm sure they heard that, and now they're blushing in the corner of their office. So a big apology for this. However, I believe that the structure of your questions has been answered in this interpelation, and as you have rightly said yourself, the interpelation is from April and in the meantime the negotiations with local authorities, which had some partial reservations about closing one or that branch, occurred in all cases, 100 percent of the cases, every management of the city where the branch of the Czech Post was cancelled, was addressed and called for negotiations. And one more comment. Of course, the mayors, mayors, mayors, mayors, mayors were informed, where the branch of the Czech Post was disturbed. I would understand your reservation to inform the mayors in whose area the mail belongs, I would understand the reservation if the closing of the mail would take place on the second, third, fourth, fifth day, but here is a sufficient time delay between the notification of the decision and the real closing of the branch, which has not yet happened, it will happen 1. 7. And I believe that the possibility of informing even the mayors of smaller municipalities here has indeed been fulfilled, Czech Post has published, has advertised a very detailed list of explanations and procedures on its website. So here I really doubt very much that this information would get to everyone who's supposed to get it. I don't think I'm gonna be stalling anyone else who wants to interpel. My conclusion - and we will certainly decide by vote - is that the answer to this written interpelation, to the questions asked, was sufficient.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u59	Thank you, Minister. With a point of fact, Mrs Zuzana Ožanová will now speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u60	Thank you, Madam President. I will say that I am not satisfied, Minister. I understand you don't have anything at your disposal. Then you should have written it! I don't, I don't. Ask somewhere else. But it's not really like that in your answer. You're describing some things that you've pulled out of something, obviously you have to have some evidence at your disposal, otherwise you wouldn't be able to write it that way. So if you don't, you don't, so point one - we don't have available, ask the Czech Post. That's the answer I'd expect, please. So that's really not an answer for me. As far as I'm concerned, I'm gonna jump over to the last one about the small villages. I have heard this question from a colleague who has actually dealt with the fact that some municipalities have not received any information. The fact that the Post Office dealt with the mayor -- acted, but if you really think it's right, I don't. Indeed, the tactic, here we agree that the answer is, of course, the answer, I cannot contradict, however, whether it was right to choose this procedure, that I will give up on the small municipalities, I think not. However, I am of the opinion that the answer at this point was three. Thank you for arranging a possible meeting, so I will welcome it, Minister, but I still believe that point six has not been answered, as the delivery fiction will be calculated in case of opening branches, for example, only two days a week. Please look at your answer. It's not there. The Czech Post is really for me, I may be a little different from my colleagues, of course we deliver letters different, but what is quite... [[President: Time, Madame.]] I'm just finishing up - essential to the functioning of the state.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u61	Thank you. Another point of fact is Mrs Peštová, and Mrs Knechtová will be prepared. Madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u62	Thank you for the floor. I'd like to respond to the Minister when he said it was being done. I have to confirm that, yes, that the Post Office has dealt with the cities. Maybe I'm saying, we're a statutory city, and we're looking for a post office that's currently in the hospital, and it's very busy, and at first it was declared to be a symbolic crown. Then the negotiations took place in such a way that it was more obvious that the Post Office did not want to agree, because then it wanted CZK 200,000 for the old furniture, then suddenly the amounts climbed up, as they climbed to almost 1.2 million per partition and the person sitting there, because of course the Post Office wanted to pay some licenses to be in its systems, and so on. So it actually climbed out of the symbolic crown somewhere else, and of course the city couldn't accept it because the cargo was considerable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u63	I also thank And now, with Mrs Knechtová's point of fact. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u64	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I would like to draw attention to the fact that there is, in fact, a cancellation of the postal code. So, actually, the mayors weren't invited to any negotiations, and they were more or less learning about it the way the information came from the media. And it actually happened with us specifically that the mayor of the oerpéčka then invited the municipalities and began to deal with them and discuss it and the situation actually got to the citizens in this gradual way, and many people do not know that they will have a completely different postal code from 1 July. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u65	Thank you, too. And another one with a point of fact - Mrs Ožanová. Please. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u66	Thank you, Madam President. I thank my colleague Knechtová for saying this to the Minister. I believe that when this happened in the South Moravian Region, this situation occurred in several regions of the Czech Republic. And it really is not only for the sake of criticism, but also to encourage such situations to not occur in the future, so that you really consider how to communicate with the mayors, how to communicate in such a case with such things that affect many people. I think you could also work on the Czech Post in the sense that it behaves better, because the description of those meetings that the mayors have really had with the Czech Post is really trivial. It wasn't a meeting. It came: we'll cancel, we'll finish, say what you want, it'll be that way! I believe that a certain degree of decency and consideration was appropriate, at least to hear, and simply a little less arrogant behavior towards the mayors. Just as I would expect from you, Minister, from STAN, you are the representative of STAN, that you will appeal to the Czech Post office, that they did not succeed, that they could behave better. I don't know if I'm gonna propose, but I'm not suggesting that the answer wasn't enough. She really wasn't enough for me. But I don't think I'm gonna change the fact that the answer isn't gonna be enough next time either. Forget it. It wasn't complete. Sorry, not really. I'm not gonna let you vote on it. But the meeting with the Czech Post, I really expect that, and it would be good at a time when it is not yet a parliamentary holiday. [[Attention on time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u67	Thank you, too. I'm sorry, Minister, but there are still two factual points before you. First Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová, Mr Haas will be prepared and then Mr Minister. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u68	Thank you, Madam Vice-President, for the floor. I have to smile a little bit about what the Home Secretary here says that the methodology about what branches are going to be closed was that she had Czech Post in her hands. So let's ask ourselves, who is at the head of the Ministry of the Interior? He is the Minister of the Interior Vít Rakušan, under which the Czech Post belongs, state enterprise. So, Minister, you certainly didn't talk to the Czech Post, you didn't communicate with them, you didn't really know what the český Post would come up with, what the criteria would be. You probably didn't even see the analysis that's classified, which says the branches are. You're just the Home Secretary for the starosta and the independent who threw those mayors overboard. Because I would expect you, as Minister of the Interior, to say to the Czech Post: Yes, you have presented something. First, communicate with the mayors. Come up with the result of how the mayors view it, how it is in the territory, what are the arguments of the mayors, and then you should have taken that step if necessary. You didn't do that in any way, but you put in your election program that the mayors stand on that front line, that they are more important than the members of the government, but unfortunately the opposite is true. So then things happen in that territory that were proposed to close the mail, which not only had a lot of postal transactions, but are barrier-free, and other pitfalls that the Czech Post probably didn't know!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u69	Thank you for keeping time. Another with a point of fact, Mr Haas, and then Minister Rakušan. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u70	Madam President, thank you very much for the floor. My esteemed colleague, ladies and gentlemen, has lifted me from the seat of the honourable speaker, through Madam President, our colleague Ožanová. I think we respect each other very much, I appreciate it very professionally and humanly, but I was slightly elevated by the words that the management of the Czech Post took place with the mayors, and now I do not have the tape, but I think it was said here: only on a flat-rate, arrogant basis, it was only to be done, without any attempt at a real outcome. Well, I'll tell you one brief case from our town. Without having to enter this meeting - I was the opposition representative in our town, in the negotiations between the management of the statutory city of Pardubice and the management of the Czech Post, the regional one, I did not have to enter at all. I only got that information as a representative and in our town of Pardubice. Since the Mayor of the statutory city of Pardubice for the ANO movement brought relevant arguments for the exchange of branches of the Czech Post against the proposed management proposal, without any problems the statutory city of Pardubice agreed with the management of the Czech Post to change the list. [[10.40 hours]] Of course, we are also not pleased with the reduction of branches. [[Number]] That's another thing. But I just want to come up with a priori here against the fact that the negotiations were in quotes, that they were arrogant, that the negotiations couldn't be achieved. In our country in Pardubice we have achieved the result that the list of branches of Czech Post intended for cancellation has changed, so that a branch is chosen that suits the City of Pardubice representative, the management of the statutory city of Pardubice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u71	Thank you, too, for keeping time. It is now time for the Rakušan Minister to make a point of fact. Mrs Ožanová, Mrs Peštová and Mr Bělica will be ready. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u72	Thank you. I wanted to make Mr Králíček happy that he would also get his interview, so I already tried not to respond. I can see his nervousness whether or not he's gonna make it, so I promise it's the last time. One. Please - that I do not communicate, and I heard it in a few notes here, I think, when I looked at the participation in the interpelations, I am one of the most appropriate ministers, of all. I go to interpelation, I answer the opposition on parliamentary ground, and I stand by it. So I would please consider this reservation really unfair! And that's statistically conclusive. For the next one. I'm very happy about what Mr. Haas said. The negotiations really weren't formal. If you feel that it was arrogant from a particular meeting, that it was formal, that it was ineffective, please give me this information, give me contact with the mayor, give me contact with the city's management, I will be interested in the management of the Czech Post, who led the meeting. But in general, I also have a feedback from mayors and mayors who weren't a fan of the government at all and opposed the closure of the particular branch, that the negotiations were meaningful, the management of the Post Office took time for mayors and mayors, accepted into those regions, and many times it led to a good result. And what my colleague Vildumetzová said. I really will never - and that is your, let's say, shadowy view of the matter - be the one who will enter into the things he does not enter. Political decisions - political decisions - which we stand for, and should have been done long ago, are the abolition of 300 branches. At present 2,900 branches, still the densest network in the European Union. In 2015, 1,200 branches were proposed. But I will never enter an expert methodology that mail is supposed to or should not be closed. That's not what a politician should do. That's an expert decision.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u73	Thank you for keeping time. It is now Mrs Ožanová's turn to make a point of fact and to prepare Mrs Peštová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u74	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I didn't mean interpellation. I meant when the meeting was in the Czech Post. I had this impression. So this is where we misunderstood. Because I really understand your outrage because you answer, but nevertheless I had this impression when discussing the Czech Post point to explain it. My colleague Haas through you, Madam President, also to you, Minister. You know, I didn't interfere with any conversations either, because that's the thing about the mayors, they're the same people, I'm just not gonna do that. However, the information they gave me was as I presented it. And it's not about me interfering in any way. It really could have been, and let's face it, different in the Czech Republic. However, as far as I can remember from previous debates in the Czech Post, I was not the only one who actually informed about a certain way of dealing with the mayor. But the mayors who informed me had this attitude. I really wasn't interfering. That's just to explain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u75	Thank you, too. It is now Mrs Peštová's turn to prepare Mr Bělica. Madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u76	Thanks for the word. I would like to confirm the Minister's words that he is one of the few ministers who comes here for interpelation. Usually when I see how many are excused, I don't even give the interpelations. But I wanted to respond to my colleague Haas. I didn't say, or maybe she said my previous speaker, something about the arrogance. I was the one who said there wasn't an effort to make a deal. The negotiations were conducted so that the pošta Office was not interested. At least that's how I got the information from our mayor that they wanted to get the mail from our side, and they wanted to get it, but as the price gradually went up, and that's more of a bad thing from the other side, that it just wasn't interested, and it ended up with some million two hundred, and they said, don't be mad at me, but for one person at one desk, we just don't give a million two hundred a year, that's really unbearable for us, because there were two bulkheads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u77	Thank you, too. It is now Mr Bělica's turn to make a final point of fact. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u78	Thank you, Madam President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I wouldn't comment on this anymore, because it's been a lot going on and everything has basically been said, but I was motivated by my colleague Haas to react. My colleague, I was at the meeting. I fundamentally reject the arrogance of those people who have dealt with me about those mails. No way. What I've been blaming the whole process from the start, and maybe if you'd listened to my performance before, this might not even have happened, is that the negotiations were going on until after the decisions were made. She fell hard. I understand that there is some legislative necessity that it has some parameters, but the explanation should have happened some time ago. The meeting wasn't until after the decision. The fact that something was negotiated in Pardubice and not in our country, so if you listened well to the whole process, it was about the fact that the Czech Post was retreating only if there was some error in the parameters. That means maybe it wasn't three kilometers, and so on. Plus, the information, because we consult with the mayors, we get each other's information. I think that the fundamental problem was also in the lack of communication towards the Post Partner Plus and the Post Partner in general. The problem with us, for example, is that from next week, we just find 23,500 people in one branch. And, colleague, it's not an easy matter, it's not trivial. There's just gonna be queues at the post office. And the fact that a community with 2,500 people is simply entitled from legislation to a very small branch somewhere is also a problem, because most of these people then commute to those statutory cities for work or with children for rings. So that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u79	I also thank you for keeping time. Now, with the factual remark of Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová. Madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u80	Thank you for the floor. The response to the Minister of the Interior, who actually says here that everything was decided and prepared by the Czech Post, he just brought to the government that the 300 branches would be cancelled and that in no way politically entered into it. So, Minister, I'll read you on Facebook from the Liberec Region: Good news. The mail in Wroclaw will not be disturbed. Our rapid response and joint initiative, together with the Governor of the Liberec Region, Martin Půta and Senator Michal Canov, result in the post office in Vratislavice not being canceled. So what happened? So the Wroclaws came in with a data box saying they wouldn't be disturbed by the mail, and the captain for STAN and the senator for STAN probably went somewhere, and suddenly the mail didn't cancel and it got cancelled somewhere else.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u81	Thank you. Now, with a factual remark, the Minister. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u82	I don't know where the captain went or didn't go or where the senator went or didn't go, but here at this moment, as in the case of the Ostrava mentioned, there was a mistake. And I'm even able to explain that mistake to you here because I was waiting here for the argument. And the fact that our people made a mistake, I'm sorry, it happened. Vratislavice are a part of the city and in urban separate parts the branches were not disturbed. The Wroclaw Post was calculated as one of the Liberec Post Offices and criteria were applied to it outside the criteria of the city section as such. Yes, it was one of the five -- I don't have statistics here -- documented errors in the original list. For the record, I can show you that there really were about five mistakes. And those mistakes, Madam President, have been made across the political spectrum and across the one who is concerned, not concerned or the governor in the city. So, I hope I have legitimately refuted that remark. I can prove it to you with facts and clear arguments from the Czech Post. Even in this case, I didn't interfere with any of this. [[10.50 hours]] All the cities, all the municipalities that pointed out that there might have been a mistake, were heard. Either the error itself was refuted and the methodology was explained to them, or it was granted that the error had occurred. Yes, and Vratislavice fall into this particular set. It's not easy to live in paranoia, sometimes things have simple explanations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u83	Thank you, Minister. I will ask if anyone else is interested in speaking in this interpelation? I see no one, so I am done with the debate. I will ask the honourable Member whether it is true that there is no resolution? [[Yes.]] So I'm done discussing this point, and we're coming to another interpellation, which is an interpellation to the Minister of Culture of Martin Baxa. Minister of Culture Martin Baxa responded to the interview by Mrs Jaroslava Pokorná Jermanová on planned investments in the field of culture. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 469. I am opening the debate and I see Mrs Pokorna Jermanová's envoy. Madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u84	Madam President, honourable Members of the Government, colleagues, I consider this issue to be very important, but since Minister Baxa is not present here, I would like to ask the House to interrupt this interpelation until the time of its presence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u85	Thank you. This means interrupting written interpelation until the presence of a member of the government. I will perform for my colleagues from the lobby so that we can put the request of the Member to vote. For incoming colleagues: we are voting to interrupt this written interpelation into the presence of Minister Baxa. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 113, registered 118 Members, for 78, against 1. The motion was accepted. So we interrupted this interpelation into the presence of Minister of Culture Martin Baxa. Now I dare to load my apologies. President Pekarová Adamová apologizes from 9 to 11 o'clock for personal reasons, Mr Hájek Jiří takes back his apology from 17 o'clock for work reasons, Mr Hájek Jiří further from 14.30 o'clock for work reasons, Mr Hendrych Igor within 18 o'clock for work reasons, Mr Stržínek Robert from 15 o'clock for work reasons. Now it is our turn to interview Mr. Deputy Prime Minister for Digitization and Minister for Regional Development Ivan Bartoš. Deputy Prime Minister for Digitisation and Minister for Regional Development Ivan Bartoš responded to Mr Robert Králíček's interpellation on large-volume data reports. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 471. Initiating debate. Yes, Mr. Juchelka reporting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u86	Hello, thank you very much. Madam President, I would like to ask the House to interrupt this point in the presence of the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u87	The Minister is here, but unfortunately, there is no Member králíček. That's why this interpellation is failing. [[Fun in the hall.]] So I'm sorry, those are the rules. If the Member who interpelled is not present, the interpellation is failing. [[Fun, laughter, applause in the right side of the hall.]] We are therefore coming to another interpelation, which is an interpellation to the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports, Mr Mikuláš Bek. Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Mikuláš Bek responded to the interpellation of Mr Aleš Juchelka in relation to the threat to education of children in institutional care as a result of proposed legislative changes. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 478. And I am launching a debate in which I see Mr Juchelka registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u88	This time I will save myself, not Mr. Králíček. I propose that the discussion of this point be interrupted right now - and I hope that it is nowhere - by Minister Mikuláš Bek. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u89	Yes, thank you. I will zagongovat my colleagues from the lobby because a motion has been made to interrupt this written interpelation into the presence of Minister Bek. I'll rejoin, but I think we're in sufficient numbers here. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of interrupting this interpelation into the presence of Minister Bek? Who's against it? Voting number 114, registered 120 Members of Parliament, for 76, against 1. The motion was accepted. So we also interrupted this interpellation into the presence of the Minister. I am now opening the last written interview submitted to Prime Minister Petr Fiala. Prime Minister Petr Fiala responded to Mr Karel Havlíček's interview on the purchase of infantry belt combat vehicles. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 479. I am opening the debate and I see Mr. Vice-President Havlíček registered. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u90	Yes. Madam President, given that this is a serious matter, namely the participation of the domestic industry in a contract of CZK 60 billion, and given the absence of the Prime Minister, I am asking to interrupt this point in the presence of the Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-001-119.u91	Thank you, too. And once again, I gong on my colleagues in the lobby to vote on this too, that is, to interrupt the discussion of written interpelation into the presence of Prime Minister Petr Fiala. I will reengage, but I think I can begin the vote. Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 115, 120 Members and Members registered, for 79, against no one. The motion was accepted. I'm saying that we've exhausted all our written interviews for today. There will now be a sequel and we would like to focus on the firmly classified points, which is paragraph 62, House press 241, the amendment to the Civil Code at first reading; paragraph 74, House press 276, the amendment to the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, first reading; paragraph 115, House document 2675, the establishment of a commission of inquiry by the Chamber of Deputies to investigate the case of the Office of the President of the Republic. We would then proceed with other points according to the approved agenda of the meeting. Let me remind you that this afternoon we're going to be focusing on point 120, which is oral questioning. If paragraphs 62 and 74 are not discussed, we will continue to discuss them after the oral interventions have been completed. I wonder if anyone is interested in getting off on the approved 70th meeting? I don't see anyone. So I'm opening item 62, which is
