ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you all to the 70th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to record our participation, I have just checked you all out and I ask you to sign up with your identification cards, or to tell me who is asking for a replacement card, as Mr Vomáčka, who will vote with card number 34, and Minister Rakušan, who will use card number 35. The Organising Committee of the Chamber of Deputies set out a proposal for a 70th meeting on 15 June 2023. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on the same day. We will now proceed to the designation of the two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we designate Members of Stanislav Berkovec and Members of Pavel Žáček. I'm asking if anyone else has a suggestion? I don't see anyone reporting with a proposal from the verifiers. Then I repeat that there are proposals for Mr Stanislav Berkovec and Mr Pavel Žáček. Initiating vote on these verifiers. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 1 70, we voted... 122 of us and 119 were in favour, so the proposal was accepted. And I note that we have appointed Members of Stanislav Berkovec and Mr Pavel Žáček as verifiers of the 70th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I hereby declare that I apologise to the opening of the meeting, for the following reasons, for the whole of the meeting, for the whole of the working day, for the whole of the Němečková day, for the whole of the working day, for the whole of the working day, for the Bžoch of the working day, for the whole of the working day, for the Krutáková of the working day, for the Lesenská of the working day, for the Fifka of the Petr Lucie, for the whole of the Nacher day, for Janda Jaroslav from the whole of the working day, for the Šimek of the Antonín David, Carbol Jiří from 14 to 15 hours for reasons of the Kaňkovský Vít, for the whole of the working day, for Ožanová of the Zuzana day, for the whole of the Teleky Róbert, for the whole of the working day, for the Vladimíra of the Karel day, for the liška of the Petr day, Kář Ondřej until 14.30 for reasons of the working Bureš, Kovářová Věra from the whole of the working day, for the whole of the working day, for the whole of the working ViktorZdeněk for the Tureček Patrik, for the whole of the Jaroslav day, for the Lenka of the working Knechtová, for the working Bohuslav, for the whole of the whole of the working day, for the working day, for the working day, for the Balaš of the Vladimír day, for the Lacina of Jan Knešt, for the whole of the whole of the whole of the working day, for the working day, for the working day, for the Kohajda day, for the Michal Svoboda, for the working day, for the whole of the whole of the whole of the Marie day, for the Tesařík of the working day, for the Vojtko day, for the kolář day, for the whole of the working Jílková, for the working day, for the whole of the working day, for the Beitl of the working day, for the Kasal David, for the whole of the working period of the working period, for the whole of the whole of the Potůčková of the working day, for the working day, for the Olšáková of the working day, for the working period, for the working day, for the working Jakub, for the working day, for the working day, for the Jáč Ivan, for the whole of the whole of the whole of the whole of the Jan of the whole of the whole of the whole of the whole of the whole Minister Mikuláš Bek apologizes from the members of the government for the whole day for working reasons, Blažek Pavel within 17 hours for working reasons, Dvořák Martin from the whole day for foreign travel, Hladík Petr from the whole day for working reasons, Kupka Martin until 20.45 for working reasons, Langšádlová Helena from 16 hours for working reasons, Nekula Zdeněk from the whole day for working reasons, Rakušan Vít from 17 to 18 hours for working reasons, Šalomoun Michal from 15 hours and from 18 hours for working reasons. Mr Kohajda cancels his apology. Thank you. We will now proceed to the 70th meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. And I will first introduce you to the proposals on which today's grémium agreed and ask you, colleagues and colleagues, to keep you quiet. Firstly, we propose to exclude items 1 and 111 from the proposal for a programme, i.e. the House Press 252, the amendment to the Constitution at second and third reading. Secondly, we propose to include a point in the proposal for a proposal on amendments to the composition of the Parliament of Deputies bodies, namely the Election Points block. Thirdly, we propose the following procedure for this week: today, Tuesday, 27 June, start negotiations on paragraph 22, House press 476, amendment to the Act on Medicines at first reading, or continue the points from the Act block - first reading, starting from paragraph 10. This order would apply for the entire week of the hearing in the event of a discussion of fixed items. Tomorrow, Wednesday, 28 June, then open negotiations on points from the Act block - third reading, in the following order: paragraph 106, House printing 366, amendment to the Act on Traffic on Roads; paragraph 109, House printing 423, amendment to the Labour Code; paragraph 107, House printing 371, draft Act on Preventive Restructuring; paragraph 108, House printing 372, amendment to the Insolvency Act. On Friday, 30 June, start the discussion item Proposition for changes in the composition of the bodies of the Chamber of Deputies, so if it is included, then discuss the item from the section Laws - third reading, namely point 105, House print 362, amendment to the Law on seed circulation, then discuss the points from the block Laws - third reading firmly placed on Wednesday if they are not discussed. And the information concluded that at past meetings The Chambers of Deputies discussed the following points: paragraph 5, House press 437, amendment of the State Enterprise Act, second reading; paragraph 6, House press 444, amendment of the Consumer Tax Act at second reading; paragraph 11, House press 450, amendment of the Employment Act at first reading; paragraph 12, House press 457, amendment of the Enforcement Order at first reading; paragraph 104, House press 312, amendment of the Act on Association in political parties and in political movements at third reading. Therefore, please do not apply, there is no need to vote on this, they will not be part of the approved agenda. That's all on my side. Now, I ask you to comment on the agenda for the meeting of Members of Parliament who are interested in this. And there's already a couple of entries. President Okamura, President Schillerová and President Radim Fiala have signed up with priority rights. Then the other Members follow without prior rights. Therefore, first I will ask the President of the Výborný to submit his proposal and you, my colleague and colleagues, please keep it down. And I'm registering another sign-in with priority rights, Mr. Chairman Babish, so fifth in the order of registration. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-000-000.u2	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, honourable Government, fellow Members, allow me to ask for these amendments to the 70th session of the Chamber of Deputies for this week, in the following order: today, that is Tuesday 27. 6., I propose, on behalf of five MPs - KDU-ČSL, ODS, TOP 09, STAN and Pirates - to include paragraph 103 as the first item in today's meeting, House Press 462, a government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratifying the Agreement between the Czech Republic and the United States of America on cooperation in the field of defence, House Press 462. [[14.10 hours]] Next, I propose tomorrow, which means Wednesday 28th. 6., in addition to what has been read from the Gremium, tomorrow as the fifth point in the third reading block, we will include paragraph 110, the Senate Bill amending Act No. 326/1999 Coll., on the residence of foreigners in the territory of the Czech Republic and on the amendment of certain laws, House printing 165, third reading. On Thursday, June 29th, following a fixed item 125, written interpelation, but at 11 o'clock at the latest, to include paragraph 67, House press 241, this is the parliamentary proposal for an amendment to the Civil Code, House press 241. As the second point in this block of first reading on Thursday, include paragraph 79, House press 276, once again the parliamentary proposal for an amendment to the Constitutional Act amending the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, the House press 276, both first readings. As the third point on Thursday after the item of written interpelation, please include paragraph 121, a proposal to set up a committee of inquiry of the Chamber of Deputies to investigate the case of the Office of the President of the Republic between 2013 and 2023, House document 2675. On Friday, June 30th, after two points have already been read from Gremium, i.e. voting point, changes in the House's bodies and point 105, third reading of the printing of 362, seeds, please include as third point 115, also from the third reading block, amendment to the State Enterprise Act, printing 437, and fourth point on Friday point 116, amendment to the Consumer Tax Act, House printing 444. Thank you for your attention, and I ask that this be voted on afterwards.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-000-000.u3	I also thank you for the proposals made. President Okamura is now signed in, followed by President Schillerová. I'm still asking you, colleagues, to keep it down. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-000-000.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, Fialův's five-calice government is here today to push through the US military presence agreement in the Czech Republic. Fialův's five-calice government is planning on discussing this treaty this afternoon and pushing it through here in the House. The SPD movement clearly tells foreign bases and troops on our territory. So I'm going to propose changes to the SPD's agenda, because SPD is not a priority, and we don't want foreign bases and soldiers in our territory. On the contrary, helping our decent people, helping families with children, is a priority for the SPD. The priority of us, the SPD, is for citizens to receive decent pensions, so that families with children receive adequate social backgrounds, so that they are not afraid to have a second and third child. So here we are going to propose changes in the agenda of the meeting, because the priority of the government's five-calice are foreign bases in the Czech Republic, the priority of the government's five-calice Petr Fiala is the establishment of foreign bases in the Czech Republic, and the priority of the SPD is the Czech citizen, because for us the Czech citizen is first and we want the bills from the SPD pen to be discussed here, which help Czech citizens. And as for the US military presence agreement in the Czech Republic - I think it is a question of referendum. I am convinced, and we in the SPD believe that the government should put a referendum on this issue. Our referendum law here in the Chamber of Deputies of the SPD has already been inserted, so there is absolutely no need for the government to make excuses. You just don't want a referendum, but we want to give you the opportunity here, and I want to place it as point number one, an extraordinary point in this meeting, and I want the SPD referendum bill on the agenda, which has been blocked by other parties for months. It is this law of ours that allows citizens to be given the opportunity to comment on this question, which means that the Fialův Government wants to establish foreign military bases, US military bases, in the Czech Republic, so that citizens can express themselves in a binding referendum. Of course, there are differences, because when I heard, for example, that the YES movement is also preparing a referendum law, then the ANO movement explicitly states when I read the comments of the ANO representatives that the YES movement refuses to allow citizens to vote on international treaties. So basically, the SPD is the only party in the House and Parliament that is proposing a referendum, where citizens could vote not only on the Czech Republic's withdrawal from the EU, so that citizens themselves decide which country they want to live in in the future, but also on our proposal that citizens can vote on whether they agree to the US military presence agreement in the Czech Republic and those US bases in the Czech Republic. I'd like to start here with the reason why I'm going to be the first extraordinary point here to put the press on line 8, paragraph 27 (?), the SPD referendum law. According to our proposal, every citizen of the Czech Republic who has reached age has the right to vote in a referendum. The decision is taken if a majority of the votes vote for them, if at least 20 percent of the citizens of the Czech Republic have taken part in the referendum at the same time. I would like to stop at that moment, because when I proposed the referendum proposal in the previous and previous parliamentary term, I put the proposal in such a way that there was no vote for the citizens' participation in the referendum. Well, those who said, right here, I was called by the opponents of the referendums, who still don't want a referendum, so it was just to keep them in the way, just to make excuses, that they said how come there's no kvorum? They said there'd be a few citizens coming and they'd be deciding on some very important things. But it is incredible how those opponents of the referendum and the representatives of the Fialův government five-calice who want American bases here in the Czech Republic, as they lie, as they are actually lying to the whole republic and citizens, because when it was the only national referendum that has so far taken place, it is a one-time thing, that is, about the Czech Republic joining the European Union, there was no quorum. So when it suits you, you didn't put in a quorum, which means, in short, even one single citizen could have agreed to join the Czech Republic in the EU if only one citizen would have participated in the referendum. So you guys didn't put any favors in there when it suited you to just make sure the referendum was over. But when the referendum is essentially to be repeated, for example, to the very same question, about the Czech Republic's withdrawal from the EU, or about staying, then suddenly you are talking about the kvora, and about the highest possible favour so that the referendum is not valid, even if citizens decide to speak. [[14.20 hours]] So, after this discussion, I put at least 20 percent of the participation in our new proposal for this parliamentary term, although I think it should be without a vote, so as to increase at least a little bit of the chance that perhaps someone from other parties would also raise their hand for the referendum law. Let me just remind you -- but I see, it's like when they throw games on the wall, it's just that Fialův's five-calice government is anti-democratic, you're against democracy, because, by the way, the Czech Republic is, according to my information, the last country in the European Union that doesn't have any form of referendum. So right here, you can see exactly how Fialův's five-caliber government is acting. You behave in a way that's basically short of wanting citizens to come to the elections, you want citizens to come to the elections every four years and then keep their mouth shut and step up. That's Fialův's five-caliber government approach. Well, we think that the referendum law should be here, and on this very issue that you want to push through here today, your coalition, together with the ANO movement, you want to push through, because President Schillerová here said that most of the members of the ANO movement will vote in favour, for the Czech - USA treaty, that is, for the possibility of those American bases in the Czech Republic, so we just think that - so the SPD here is alone, we are here alone. But we don't mind. We are simply the only opposition on this issue, and the only SPD is clearly saying that the entire parliamentary club will vote against, against this treaty, because we simply do not want foreign bases here, either from the east or from the west. We just don't want foreign military bases here. And I really must say that the situation is absolutely unbelievable because in 1968 the communist regime signed an invitation letter for foreign troops to enter Czechoslovakia, and now we are in exactly the same situation when Minister Jana Černochová from ODS signed an invitation letter for other foreign troops to the Czech Republic. So, of course, it's awful, it's totally disgusting, I have to say. And I say again that we are on the side of those citizens who, after experience from both World War II and 1968, simply do not want any foreign bases here in the Czech Republic. So it's just-- we're against it. And I really don't understand how the government, which has the support that 43 percent of the citizens of the Czech Republic voted for - that is, you were not voted by the majority. Since the creation of the independent Czech Republic, it has been written somewhere, so it is even the first government to rule here in the House, but has not received a majority of the votes in the elections because in 2021 a million votes of citizens fell below 5% for the parties. And they were mostly parties that were programmed against Fialův's five-calice government. This means that you have not been given such a serious step of the mandate even in the elections, it is not true because the number of votes of the citizens in the elections - you have not won the majority, and especially not to look at your current trust, when your government already trusts you, only 30 percent of the citizens, and Prime Minister Petr Fiala even, I have read the survey somewhere now, the mainstream survey, so he is the least trusted politician in the Czech Republic and he is believed by only 22 percent of the citizens of the Czech Republic. So you're already so sold out to Washington and Kiev and Berlin and Brussels that you've already lost any kind of feedback, and that there's really something like that that's supposed to be American soldiers on base in the Czech Republic, so you really shouldn't suggest it at all, and you shouldn't promote it in this way. The problem is also that the agreement is concluded for ten years when it cannot be terminated. That means any other governments that come after you, so, of course, they'll have to follow it, even though they won't agree to it. And I think that's a really fatal problem. This is a really big problem when a government with 30% confidence in citizens here agrees such a serious matter for ten years. About us without us. About us, I mean the citizens, and I mean the referendum. So that's really, really wrong. The arrogance is really incredible, and that is why I, like the first point, want an extraordinary point at this House meeting to include our proposal for a referendum law, because I think it should simply be a referendum. Otherwise, we are proposing precisely in this law of ours, so that citizens can essentially decide on almost all the issues that would basically attack citizens. Where we say that the only area that we take out of this is those areas, so it's the state budget, for example, tax administration, it's putting individual persons into office and removing them from office, so let them handle elections, we propose a direct choice of politicians. That's another law of ours. I'll get to that. But other than these things and the fundamental rights and freedoms guaranteed by constitutional order, we propose that citizens can essentially decide on everything else if they collect the appropriate number of signatures so that they can make decisions. So this is about the subject of the referendum. So in our bill, which we are proposing, we are actually allowing, of course, that's why I'm talking about it, so we allow citizens, if they collect the adequate number of signatures, but I can get to that, as I said, so that they can also make a binding decision in a referendum on whether or not they want the US military presence in the Czech Republic and whether or not they want foreign bases in the Czech Republic. That is the question that we simply want to have a referendum on the subject. On the other hand, we can see, and it is quite clear why Fialův's five-wheelers are defending, defending the referendum, and unfortunately I must say that the ANO movement is also preventing this, because it also says that it does not want a referendum on international treaties. So, in my opinion, it really runs counter to those democratic principles, and especially on this serious issue. Let us see how the question for the referendum in our bill should be formulated. The question for the referendum must be clear, understandable and formulated in such a way that it can be answered by the word 'yes' or 'no'. In one referendum, more questions may be asked on the same issue if these questions are not in conflict with one another. Well, sure. So we have just specified here that those who do not want a referendum, which is the majority here in the Chamber of Deputies, basically only the SPD wants a referendum law, where people could vote on international treaties, so, of course, we are precisely stating this in Article 3, so that the question is simply clear and understandable, so that, by chance, the opponents of the referendum do not say that the question that the citizens themselves have put forward is that there is some incomprehensible and that such a referendum is not possible and so on. So here we go, we say right from the top. And I even think that there is good - or I think so, of course, because I am the author of the law, but that there is the possibility of asking more questions about the same thing, which would be precisely the case with such a serious question as those foreign bases in the Czech Republic, so I think that we will certainly have a lot of citizens welcome this proposal, because they would like to clarify the issue or the question to make it more detailed. So as for the proposal to hold a referendum, let us see who can actually propose that referendum in our draft constitutional law. According to our proposal, a referendum may be proposed by any citizen of the Czech Republic who has reached the age of 18 on the date of the start of the collection of signatures, if his petition is supported by at least 250,000 citizens of the Czech Republic who have reached the age of 18 on the date of the signature, including the signature referred to in Article 5 (1) (a). 2. I'll get there, of course. [[14.30 hours]] Well, I think it sounds logical, because the proposal for a referendum that would sign under that petition list, basically it's a petition document that can support a citizen from the age of 18, I think it has logic, because from the age of 18 it's electoral law, and I think it's basically correlated with this, with the practice and how legislation works in the Czech Republic. Of course, I have to stop at the 250,000 signatures a little longer, because, of course, it seems a lot to me, so let me just drop by a little bit and make a little progress because I think that the question really is serious and there is a very detailed explanation for the proposal to amend the agenda of the meeting that I am presenting here. When I think of it, I suspect there are 50,000 signatures in Switzerland, and Switzerland, now don't hold my breath, it has 8 million inhabitants, 8-9 million inhabitants, so in the real democracies, the number of signatures to call for a referendum is, of course, much lower. Well, I also originally proposed 50,000 signatures here, after the last parliamentary term I proposed 100,000 signatures, because at that time I naively thought that there were other democratic parties in the Chamber of Deputies who would also want to allow citizens the bill of referendum. And then I found out here that it's quite the opposite, that Prime Minister Fiala here is a typical proof of that, an elite separated from reality, we can see that, and basically you don't want a referendum law. To be helpful, we have increased the number of signatures under the petition for the referendum, and so we have increased it to 250,000 signatures and I thought it would move someone here, but it turns out that it doesn't move anyone here because you don't really want a referendum. But maybe in somebody after my interpretation here, because of course the interpretation will be longer, perhaps one of you will realize it and perhaps we will start a discussion here. So from my point of view, of course, there's a need to cut the deal, but I've put 250,000 signatures here to be... We're trying to get the support of at least some other party here, but we can see that the SPD is all alone in this. So, of course, we will continue, and as I say, it is one of the key SPD agenda points, direct democracy, and without a doubt the referendum law is one of the important attributes of direct democracy. And let's keep looking. The period for the collection of signatures on this petition shall begin from the date of commencement of the collection of signatures under petitions and shall end 12 months after the date on which the decision of the Constitutional Court, which has been given the consent of the motion to hold a referendum with constitutional order and law pursuant to Article 11, became enforceable. What does that mean? So to translate it in some way in a more understandable way. So, in short, we give space, sufficient space to citizens, because I see again the non-democrats who like to call themselves Democrats, but it is precisely the opposite, because it is precisely the one who always says in itself that he is a Democrat and squeaks others, that is the one who must constantly point out to himself, because he is just promoting the opposite. So we're giving enough room here. We give space to 12 months so that citizens - because the signatures, thevorum is quite high, so that there is sufficient time for citizens to be able to collect the signatures democratically. So it's been 12 months, it could be for discussion, of course. I just wanted to point out that if one of you had a conscience and you put that bill of referendum on our agenda now as the first point, then - but I'd like to be like... like this, it must be the first point, yes, because it must be before we discuss the treaty proposed by the Fialův Government on the US military presence and military bases in the Czech Republic. So that's why we're proposing it as the first point. And it is necessary to move the question forward and, on the contrary, reject this treaty that you are proposing, at least until the referendum takes place, of course. But so I say for myself that I would like to reject it completely, a treaty on the presence, on American bases, on foreign bases in the Czech Republic. We just don't agree with it in the SPD. Then we say here that proposing a referendum is also the Parliament of the Czech Republic. [[The plaintiff?]] So you can see that you do not have to worry so much about anything, because basically we are giving space not only to citizens, but also to you and to you Members who do not want the referendum law, so that you do not stay away. That is, we are writing here, clearly suggesting that the consent of an absolute majority of all Members and of the majority of senators present is needed to make the motion. That means what's going on? Just so we don't lose the thread. What I read a moment ago is that citizens themselves can call for a referendum. But now it's point 2 of our bill proposal, who else can raise a referendum outside of those citizens - so that someone doesn't understand it so that I said that citizens can and that the House or the Senate should somehow sanctify it. No, no, I didn't say that, that's not it, okay? So whoever listened well knows exactly what I meant and what I'm talking about. It's another one of the options, another one of the options that can call for a referendum. You see, we are proposing here that it should not be just citizens, but that Parliament should also have the opportunity to propose a referendum. And I think that's the right thing to do. Why not? In the finals, citizens will decide in the referendum. So it doesn't matter at all, which is why we put it there too, certainly, when someone feels that a referendum is needed, and I think that it is the government that is thinking democratically, which is not the Fialův Government, so on such a serious question I would expect you as a government to raise - even if it is a one-off - a referendum, as it was when the Czech Republic joined the EU. Well, you can't even think about it. It doesn't even occur to you, because the Fialův government rules in a way about us without us, arrogantly, obliviously, elitistly. That means, you, as I said, your government, which has not even been elected by most citizens - and, as I said, everyone knows this, the whole Republic, so trust in your government has fallen steeply to just 30%, 70 percent of the citizens do not agree with you at all, so here you are hard-pressing an unwitting ten-year contract on foreign bases in the Czech Republic. And, of course, I have to stop by because it's not funny what you guys are doing here. Because if we look at this in more detail, the contract that the Fialův Government has agreed, and the Secretary of Defense, Černochová, of the ODS, has signed, in my view, treasonably, because it is not normal, this, so allows the treaty, the armed forces of the United States, to use eleven military spaces and buildings, at the air bases of Čáslav, Pardubice, Náměšť and Mošnov. They will also be able, the American army, to use army training premises Hradiště, Libá, Boletice, Březina and to use barracks in Vyškov, Rančířov and Stará Boleslav. [[14.40 hours]] Well, why am I naming this place? I am elected a Member of the Moravian-Silesian Region and there is, of course, Mošnov Airport, near Ostrava. Who was there knows. I was there, of course. Well, why am I talking about this? As the citizens of the Moravian-Silesian Region tell me in large numbers, and our other MP for the Moravian-Silesian Region for the SPD will confirm this to me, there are two other MPs, Dr. Síla and Mr. Master Sládeček, who will confirm to me how citizens tell us what will happen when American soldiers are at the base in Mošnov. And, of course, citizens fear that they may be targeted. That is simply clear, and of course I share their concerns. So the citizens are asking for a referendum, and the citizens just don't agree with it. That, of course, is a problem. And I would just point out that in all these locations that I was talking about, the US can build its own buildings on the basis of this treaty signed by Minister Černochová of the ODS and approved by the Fialův Government Five-calice, so in all these locations, the US can build its own buildings and will also be able to move and operate freely on the territory of the Czech Republic, including family members. This Treaty introduces a free mode of arrivals, departures, the introduction of any movable items and the storage of weapons and ammunition into these premises, without the possibility of controls by the Czech Republic. Moreover, the agreement is concluded for ten years when it cannot be terminated. The contract is clearly disadvantageous for the Czech Republic. And again, I say that the SPD movement is telling clear not to foreign bases and soldiers on our territory and we will vote in the House against the approval of this treaty. And why am I talking about this? I will, of course, reiterate that this is because the Fialův Government is now submitting this treaty to Parliament's approval today, and we simply think that there should be a referendum on this and that citizens should make a binding statement on this. So I'm gonna go back to our bill of referendum. We are clearly writing here in paragraph 3 that the proposal for a referendum must contain a specific question or questions on the same matter that is to be decided in the referendum. It's right there as a condition, of course. That is logical, because when citizens collect signatures, of course, we write it explicitly so that, of course, the proposal contains the specific question or questions. Moreover, as I have already mentioned, so that the question or questions can be answered by the word yes or no. Of course, now the attentive listener might ask, who is the proposal to make the referendum? And that, of course, is what we specify here in point 4, of our bill proposal, where I make it clear that the proposal to hold a referendum is made to the President of the Republic. If citizens or Parliament want to call for a referendum, they will, of course, collect signatures and there are questions or questions that can be answered yes or no, it will be submitted to the President of the Republic. Of course, now a more perceptive listener who cares - I am interested, of course, in five-wheelers of government it doesn't care, they have already left the bench basically, most of them because of course they don't care about the referendum and at all costs Fialův's government five-wheelers want to push American bases and the presence of American soldiers, simply foreign soldiers in the Czech Republic. To us, frankly, I'm stressing again, we don't want soldiers either from the east or from the west here. We just don't want foreign bases here. That's the SPD's position. We don't want Russian soldiers or American soldiers or anyone. This is Fialův's five-calice government - there are some people who are completely out of their minds, so they would still be haunting China even here. It's just the top, yeah, totally. What's interesting is-- here I see Mrs. Speaker of the House Pekarová running the meeting, so I'd just be progling when I'm in China, it's nothing, nothing like that, it's more of a smiley joke. Because when I saw how President Pekarová, through you, stands at a press conference and takes a journalist's cell phone and says, "You don't have an iPhone?" - You hate China, you love Taiwan, but maybe you should know that iphon are made in China. Just look at the iPhone. So it just illustrates the ridiculousness of complete amateurism, these desperate screams and the awkwardness of actually the top officials of Fialův's five-caliber government. That's completely unbelievable. When I saw this, I took another look at the phone, the iPhone, the box, if it really is President Pekarová's incompetent or if it's that stupid of a whole thing. On purpose, I say in general that I shouldn't offend anyone. It's just unbelievable completely, I hear it, it's so ridiculous, it's so embarrassing that one of the top three constitutional officials in this way is going to be ridiculed on live, it's not even possible. That means... she's most of the products, most of the clothes, a lot of what people are wearing, so she's made in China. So I don't know if you're all wearing everything from Taiwan, but if you hate China so much, it's interesting that you're doing this selectively. But that's like another thing. So the whole world's in business, the whole world's in business, and you're just destroying our economy, and you're destroying that Skodovka live, and you're destroying that Skodovka, Skoda Auto, with these incompetent screams of yours. But while I'm at it, but I'm going to get right to the proposal, I would of course like the Czech Republic to behave like other democratic countries, other, most advanced democratic countries, in foreign policy. I had to laugh all the time, and my friends were completely embarrassed by the embarrassment, who do international business, like I do all my life, when Minister Lipavský from Pirates arrived in India, who has a billion inhabitants, and the contents of his negotiations, the disgrace behind the Czech Republic, was that he began to deal with the attitude towards China and Ukraine with the Indians as the Czech Republic. He doesn't know which one beats. I mean, did they really listen to you and have to wonder what kind of dilettantes run this place? That's totally unbelievable. This is unbelievable. I'm really a person who expects the government to support business in India, and that's how the minister gets off at the beginning, so not only did he disgrace himself, but that's basically... you're actually thwarting business opportunities like those big business opportunities. [[I'd like to]] While others are simply doing business and doing business in these big countries, you are completely destroying the whole Czech Republic with your activism, you are simply indebting it in a completely incredible way, because of course there is no money in the economy, and you are destroying jobs and the result is that people go shopping for cheaper food to Poland, but also to Germany. It's crazy. It's just totally awful. Anyway, I'll be back. But I have plenty of time. Because it needs to be explained here that it would be good for that bill to be called up about the referendum. So what about the assessment of the proposal to hold a referendum? We are clearly saying here that the question, of course, must always be assessed from the constitutional point of view, so that the bill on the referendum should be passed at all, so we are clearly writing here that the Constitutional Court will assess whether the proposal to hold a referendum is in accordance with constitutional order and with the law under Article 11. That is, of course, what we are writing here, because, of course, it would certainly not be appropriate, and we would not want that question to be required in violation of the basic Charter of Rights and Freedoms. [[14.50 hours]] If I make it a lot easier, I'm sure it would be wrong if the question had to be: may he be murdered, may he be robbed, may he be raped? Well, these are questions which, of course, cannot be legitimized in any way, of course. That is why I think it is right for the Constitutional Court to judge whether the question is simply contrary to constitutional order. So we're putting it there. I wouldn't expect one of the citizens to collect 250,000 signatures for such a question, but I'm giving it more as an example so that it's quite clear what's going on here in this article. If it proposes a referendum by a proposing citizen, it is precisely to check whether the question is in accordance with constitutional order or not. So we're just suggesting that 50,000 signatures should be enough to begin with, and that 50,000 signatures will be enough to file the Constitutional Court for the first-stage assessment. If, of course, the Constitutional Court would say yes so that citizens would not collect over 250,000 signatures unnecessarily, if that were contrary to the constitutional order, but, of course, that is not an overwhelming majority of questions, then, of course, they would have collected the rest of the signatures and they would have already known that the referendum would certainly be. So that's what this is about. If a referendum is proposed by the Parliament of the Czech Republic, the President of the Senate shall submit a proposal to the Constitutional Court immediately after its approval by both chambers. So, of course, we're here to treat both of these variations, the filing of them. Of course, it follows from the logic of the matter that until the Constitutional Court decides that the proposal for a referendum is in line with constitutional order and with the law laid down in Article 11, a referendum cannot be declared. Here, of course, at this point, I have to stop a little, because of course, for many citizens, it could already be worrying about what happens when the Constitutional Court doesn't want to decide, Mr. Rychetský is there, yeah, we see how the electoral laws have bent out of proportion here just before the elections in 2021. Now, of course, the threat here is that if the question were against the Fialův government five-calice, the proponents, the voters of the Fialův government five-calice at the Constitutional Court could hold it off so that the referendum doesn't take place. Well, that's what we're treating here because we're aware of it -- but that's not even for that reason, I'm just saying an example of what might be threatening, and we're saying here that the Constitutional Court will decide within six months of the motion. So even this moment, when someone might be scared, how it's going to be that the citizens will try and collect their signatures, and suddenly nothing. So in six months. Let us see how, then, this referendum would be announced. The President of the Republic, we are writing here in this proposal, declaring a referendum to take place at least 90 days and at the latest 180 days from the date of its publication. So I think that is, of course, a good proposal, first of all, that the President of the Republic will declare a referendum within 30 days and so that it will take place at the earliest 90 days or at the latest 180 days after his publication. That is, of course, necessary, because if the President, and that is today's situation, President Pavel is promoting foreign bases in the Czech Republic, but a large part of the public does not want it, then the President could again, because he certainly cannot be relied upon, purposefully, to stop the referendum, or just to declare it a referendum when, maybe in two years, in three years, when it will, of course, be over. So we're treating this place, too. We also treat it in such a way that it is clearly written here, in essence, what are the deadlines, when to declare a referendum and what extent should be held. At the same time, I also noticed during the debate during the last parliamentary term, because a number of Members are here from last term, so maybe some of you will remember that I was a member of the Constitutional Commission, and there was someone who just said or somewhere said it would be expensive, that it was supposedly expensive. Well, I think what's costing us, and really hundreds of billions, hundreds of billions in minus, hundreds of billions in debt, that's what the Fialův government is. Thanks to the referendum, it is exactly the opposite. Thanks to the referendum, citizens could correct this harmful and incompetent government and save themselves, so it is exactly the opposite. It's exactly the opposite. And that referendum would be good for these cases where the government simply failed to deliver on election promises. I'll be specific about what I'm talking about. Because Prime Minister Petr Fiala and the representatives of the Fialův government did not promise to increase the retirement age before the election. You didn't say that at all. You didn't say you were gonna lower your pension valorization by robbing seniors. You didn't say that before the election, and now you're doing it. You didn't say you were raising taxes. Even Prime Minister Petr Fiala said loudly on TV a few months ago that you would not increase taxes. So he's still lying on the air and he's lying all the time. Even the citizens are already making fun of it that he's already getting so involved in his lies that he may have started to believe it himself. So we all see tax increases. You even said that the compound tax quota, the tax collection, would be much higher by tens of billions a year, and the Prime Minister just keeps saying... This can't be happening at all. That's totally unbelievable. That's crazy. So this is a really miserable situation, and for these very cases, I think that the referendum would also be appropriate. And that is precisely to close the mouth to critics who say it will be expensive and that there will be a referendum and that there are elections and so on, so here we are giving that point 3 in Article 6 and we are writing here directly that if the referendum should take place in the last six months of the presidential term, the Chamber of Deputies, a third of the senators, the European Parliament or the term of office of the representative of local authorities, in short, if there are any elections in the next six months, the President of the Republic would announce a referendum so that it will take place together with the election of the President of the Republic or with the elections to the Chamber of Deputies, the Senate, the European Parliament or with elections to the representative of local authorities. So it would actually be at the same time, on the same date, so, of course, the costs of the referendum would basically be completely minimized. So we've treated this here, too, so someone can't say it's worth something, some money. But again, I don't understand how anyone can even defend the referendum with this argument. After all, this country may belong to citizens. I'm convinced of that. The fact that we are the last country in the EU that does not have a referendum is, I think, a sufficiently alarming argument as to what kind of democratic deficit is, in essence, under this one-year government of yours. As long as you lie about others, they're not democratic parties. As long as Prime Minister Petr Fiala says because he doesn't have arguments, they're just screams of course, there are extremists, populists in opposition, just uninhibited screams. Uninhibited. That's what the Speaker of the House says, Mrs. Pekarová Adamová. The exact same thing he says, yes. She says that all the time on TV. This means, it is interesting that the opposition parties, in sum, have ten times more preferences, perhaps even fifteen times, the populists and extremists than my party, led by Mrs Pekarová. [[15.00 hours]] So it's kind of the other way around, isn't it? That extreme means extreme opinion is the one who promotes an opinion that is at the edge of the current when you look at the definition of the word extreme. So if anyone should be extreme by definition, it's Mrs Pekarová Adamová and the TOP 09. Because it's quite clear when you label others. You smugly and arrogantly insult millions of voters over and over again. Madam President Pekarová, through you. So I'm just losing it here, now that you're sitting here, that this is your horrible comments that you've been sitting here from the beginning, and you're insulting the voters of the other parties, that it's really incredible arrogance. But it's your own, so that's your business. But the voters remember, of course. Citizens remember that. So, of course, this arrogance where you just keep insulting someone, that's obviously wrong. And, of course, we're saying that we want the referendum bill here. And we say that it shouldn't be, then, when they're close to the election, so that there's no referendum here two or three months before the election, and then there's elections. And they'd be screaming you guys out of a five-wheeler again, how expensive it is, so it's wrong, so we've treated you here. And, of course, here in this law of ours, we are discussing the referendum law very closely. We say: If more proposals are made to hold a referendum, the President of the Republic shall examine the proposals individually in the order in which they were submitted to him. The referral shall not be made on the basis of a proposal submitted later. The referendum shall not be declared on the basis of a proposal submitted at a later date in terms of the content of the same proposal. Or, later on, the proposal is ruled out in content terms with the proposal for a referendum tabled earlier. So, of course, when someone makes a motion for a referendum, and I would like to put it on behalf of the SPD - but you don't want to allow me to do it, the Fialův Five-calice doesn't want to allow me to do it, the referendum law - so we would like to ask for example: Do you agree with the present... do you agree with foreign bases in the Czech Republic? Maybe that's the question. Yes - no. That's the answer. Do you agree with the long-term stay of foreign soldiers in our territory? That would be another question. Yes - no. Plus, there are some crossings going on here and so on, so that's why I'm putting the word "long-term." For example. But I'd leave that question to the citizens. It's not a question that I should be making here. Yes, I'll be happy to create it if you let me pass the referendum law. But I'm giving you these examples. And of course, because I am talking here, I explain that point 4 of Article 6 of our draft referendum law, so of course, if someone else comes up with the exact same question within a few months, then logically, there is no point in declaring a referendum on the exact same question. There's no point, of course. Now, if more referendums are to be held, if the time limits provided for in paragraphs 2 and 3 allow this to happen, where we are now saying, in the light of these elections, as it would have been, the President of the Republic is declaring referendums to take place at the same time. Which I think is another good proposal that we have here, I think it's right, that's why, and that's what it is in Switzerland to just, when there are more different questions, they merge it together, they merge it into one day, and it best merges it to election day, so that the costs of implementing this referendum are small, minimal and, of course, that the referendum should be held at the same time. So that's right, we take examples in those democratic countries, and I think that's right. The reference shall not be made and, if it is declared, shall not be carried out during the period during which an emergency, state of threat or state of war is declared. During this period, the running of the time limits under this constitutional law shall be interrupted. Well, this, when I was writing the law, I didn't know what kind of terrible government would come. I mean, of course, the Fialův government. Because you are normally capable, you are normally able to declare war in the Czech Republic because of Ukraine and normally drag us into war. That's the top of the line. Because I will remind you that last spring Prime Minister Petr Fiala said publicly in the media that the Czech Republic is at war, that we are at war. Normally, I would say, but then again, they'd tell me I'm not speaking politely, I'd say it's just crazy to say it. So I prefer to say it as a detour, because normally I'd say, that's crazy, right, of course. Because to say that the Czech Republic is at war when there is no war in the neighbouring country, neither in the Czech Republic, and to spread the alarm message... If a man who isn't a fan of Fialův's five-caliber government said that, you're gonna bring him to justice. This is today's situation in the Czech Republic! For the opinions before the court. Judging people for opinions. This is Mrs Pekarová's policy for Adamová and Prime Minister Petr Fiala. That's right! That's really scary! It's awful what you're promoting. Normally fascism! The rise of fascism! Your only opinion is correct, and any other opinion, you mark people, you destroy them, you civilly destroy them by saying, they're pro-Russian, they're pro-Pputin, they're like that. This is not true at all, because whoever does not want a war in Ukraine has nothing to do with whether it is proputinian or pro-Russian. Where did you get this? Just Goebbels rhetoric, fascist rhetoric by Mrs Pekarová Adamová and Prime Minister Fiala and other exponents! That's right! [[Unique banging on the bench from the right.]] Yes, bang! You're just gonna draw attention to what I said. And most people will agree with me. Besides, we're already seeing these politicians on that trust. That means you're overreacting. It's too much. When you're walking around people, and I'm out there every week at big events where I meet, I'm in charge, and I meet thousands of people, thousands and thousands of people in the Republic. People are afraid to give their opinion. People are afraid to give their opinion so they don't get kicked out of their jobs. He's afraid to publicize his opinions. Because of the way you scared them! It's because of your government! Because of how you scare people, like, what you've created here under your rule. I'm gonna remind you how you set up a top censor at the Office of the Government last year! The ODS set her up. That was some Mr. Klíma, while his father was a dissident. That was incredible what's going on here. And finally, after a great criticism, you've canceled the position after a great criticism of the opposition and of the citizens. You've come so far! The top censor, which was tasked with censoring opinions, gives you uncomfortable opinions! This is Mrs Pekarová's policy for Adamová and Prime Minister Fiala. You even took the liberty of going so far as to turn Fialův the website of our MEP Ivan David, former Minister of Health and former chief, director of the Bohnice rehab, just an expert, top Czech psychiatrist, and even took the liberty of shutting down his web novarepublika. His website! Because people like Mrs Pekarová Adamová and Prime Minister Fiala just said, and Vít Rakušan, you just think they're opinions you don't agree with. That's terrible. It's terrible what your government is doing. That's awful. You attract the screws of freedom and democracy in an incredible way. I don't give a damn about it. Because I defend our constituents and defend freedom and democracy. And our voters are 100% behind me in what I'm saying. I'm fully aware of that, and I know it is. I know it's true! So you can bang all you want. You're not gonna shut me up. And neither is SPD! That means, that's really awful, that's awful. And people are so scared of your government, because you call the hunt misinformation, but you already did, unfortunately, you've already propped up that word, because you call disinformation any opinion that is against the opinion of the Fialův's five-calice government. So, of course, the melting straws are catching up, but it's too much, you're overreacting. Because on the contrary, I think today, if it were to be voted on who is the greatest disinformer of all, I think Prime Minister Petr Fiala is one of the candidates for victory. bezesporu. [[15.10 hours]] Because the lies that he says you're not going to raise taxes, while the whole Republic sees that you're going to raise them and that you're raising them, so that's really legendary, that's already legendary rumours in a few months completely. And the interesting thing is, it's not in any misinformation report. After all, Prime Minister Petr Fiala should be in your reports of misinformation, who says he won't raise taxes, and you're raising them. After all, it's been about three weeks since you guys voted to increase your excise duty on fuel by CZK 1.50, so you're even gonna raise your taxes here, a few weeks ago, he still says you're not raising your taxes. Well, that's unbelievable. This means that the main disinformer in the Czech Republic is, of course, Prime Minister Petr Fiala. The greatest disinformer of the present time ever. So it's totally unbelievable. And I didn't get that out of my head, because, of course, this is going around with people, that the chief disinformer... People are asking why Prime Minister Fiala is not in some disinformation report created by the Fialův Government. That's really unbelievable. But I'm talking about that point six, which means the emergency situation, the threat to the state and the state of war. Well, I didn't really know what kind of government would rule here in the finals when I served it or how it would turn out. And basically, I even think that a referendum would be better done at such a time, because the Fialův coalition is able to drag us into war, even if we are not at war. She's capable of declaring a state of emergency, even though we're not at risk. Just to buy expensive weapons in America, just to piss us off at war, to keep creating fear in people. Your government is constantly causing fear in people. It raises fears in people. You're constantly scaring people, yeah, you're causing hatred, that's exactly what Fialův's government is. And it's really a problem. So I wrote it here, but I forgot to add that, of course, if this point were to be classified by a government five-calice, like you wouldn't want to put it in a referendum, but I'm fighting for it here, so of course, it's not some kind of mantra, dogma, the SPD proposal. We simply want the referendum law to pass, so it is possible to make various amendments at second reading and we can still talk about a compromise. Plus, it's a constitutional law. And, as you know, constitutional law doesn't have time to negotiate. So it really doesn't prevent you from letting it go through the first reading, to have a long discussion here, and to have some parameters politically involved, so that it's passable, because there's a need for a constitutional majority here. Here, I must say, of course, that in the last parliamentary term, we managed to push through the first reading of my bill on referendum. And he was at second reading. He was even at second reading. So I have to say that it really is a good thing. Here again I must commend the then Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, so that he does not think that I am just saying something else here, because during the reign of the ANO movement, our proposal for a referendum left us the YES movement, because it was dependent on it, to pass through the first reading. Well, that's where it got stuck, because the Pirates mainly betrayed the pirát, because the pirát had in their electoral program that they were promoting the bill of referendums, and they had it on the website, including the possibility of voting on international treaties, and suddenly, when they got to the House, they escaped and got away from that plan. So it really was a problem. And today, when the constellation has changed and Fialův's five-calice government is ruling, of course, the chance for that referendum is minimal today. Let's go. Every citizen who reaches the age of 18 on the day of the referendum has the right to vote in a referendum. That's how it is, I've already talked about it. Otherwise, from the last parliamentary term, yes, we have worked very hard to get it through at least the third reading, but it hasn't happened. And we had most of that here at the same time. So, again, of course, I blame the government of the YES movement from the last parliamentary term, because we could have sent it to the Senate, but unfortunately, our ANO colleagues were no longer interested. So, unfortunately, it could have gone to the Senate, the black dog, sorry, the black Petr, the black Petr would have gotten the Senate, and they couldn't make excuses anymore. Because in the last parliamentary term it was so that there was YES, ČSSD, KSČM and SPD and Pirates, those were the parties that declared that the referendum law wanted some, ČSSD, but there was only camouflage, we know that, because then they came up with a proposal, I guess, 800,000 signatures and avorum and 2 million people in the referendum, so they deliberately did it so that no referendum would ever pass, even if it had passed, so that none would have been true, so there it was a lie, there it was a fraud, there it was a political fraud. But the rest of us, if we pushed it, if there was a will to it, we had the will, but there were few of us, we only had 22 Members, so of course we would have gotten the 120 Members here to do it. But you just didn't want to. So this is the situation. Otherwise, let us look at the conditions under which a referendum decision would be taken. So the decision in the referendum would be taken and binding within the meaning of Article 9, which I will read afterwards if the majority of the votes voted in favour of the proposal, if at least 20 percent of the citizens of the Czech Republic who were entitled to vote in the referendum participated at the same time. Well, I've already said it here at the outset, that my conviction is that there's no concession of participation. This is exactly how it was with the one-off referendum when we joined the EU. But I see that other party members here measure double standards, and once the citizen's voice is more important to them, sometimes smaller, depending on how convenient it is for them. Well, we put 20 percent of the citizens in the SPD in order to somehow make sure that these notes, from my point of view, are inappropriate, but okay, to get at least a chance at the referendum law to pass. But you're just totally against the referendum bill, that's the problem. The binding nature of the decision taken in the referendum. This is a very important passage, because it is one of the key questions that is forgotten in those referendum laws, because someone is saying, and these are precisely the tricks, which is why I will once again pause here for a little longer time that the referendum law is, but not binding. That's the point. That's another political scam for voters that some other politicians from other parties are doing. That means they're gonna let citizens pick up signatures here for months, leave them in their spare time to just fight for a topic, and then these elitist politicians would like to let the citizens come to a referendum, millions of citizens, maybe, or hundreds of thousands, and then they're gonna make noodles for them, point them to a long nose and say, but we're not gonna follow it, it's not gonna be binding. That's what the wannabe Democrats want. But this is really mean, I've heard this a few times before, which means they'd still be taking advantage of the citizens, taking advantage of their time to make these citizens laugh as hard as possible in the face, so they're gonna let them do a referendum, and then they're gonna say hello to them, it's not really binding, we're gonna give a shit about you. Well, that's fucked up. This is even worse than when someone, a politician, says frankly: we do not want a referendum. [[15.20 hours]] Oh, yeah. That's what the five-calice parties say: we don't want a referendum, we don't want a referendum law. The YES movement says it wants a referendum, but without the possibility to vote on international treaties, which, of course, is also a problem. This means that we cannot vote on basically the most fundamental things. But we want to, and of course here I write it directly in the bill that the decisions taken in the referendum are binding. We want a binding referendum. So no beauty like that, just like that, no act, we don't want that. We want, if citizens decide on a question in a referendum, so that it is binding on all institutions and persons, including the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, and their change or cancellation is possible only on the basis of a referendum decision, the abolition of those decisions on the basis of a referendum. In order for it not to happen, which you typically do, I can totally imagine with the Fialův's five-wheeler, that citizens, I can see exactly how it would be, I can see it in front of my eyes that citizens would decide in a referendum that they don't want foreign bases in the Czech Republic, foreign military bases, and I can already see Minister Černochová and Mrs Pekarová in one of the TOP 09 moves, as they say, screw people, but here the bases will still be. I can totally see it in front of my eyes because that's how it would be, I know it. But that's how I see Prime Minister Fiala in front of my eyes. I can totally see him because I know him, and I've just been sitting next to him for four years, and that's just right. So that is why it is stated here that it is binding, that the decisions are binding and that those decisions in the referendum could only be changed on the basis of a referendum decision, so that it cannot happen that the very ruling elites who give a shit about citizens so that they can't, in effect, change it arrogantly by their government majority. And this, of course, is based on the assumption that citizens own this country, not politicians. Furthermore, we write here that the government will implement the decision taken in the referendum within its scope or ensure that it is implemented. That's right here. We also note that if, under this constitutional law, a referendum is held to agree to ratify or withdraw from the international treaty, it replaces Parliament's consent in such a referendum. Well, that's exactly it. That's exactly it. So that's exactly it. And at the time of filing, I wouldn't have thought who would be here, what the Fialův government would be doing here, that means us without us, without citizens, about American bases in the Czech Republic. So that's where we're putting it. You see, you've got it all on a gold platter. And once again, I call on you, I call on the Fialův Government Five Coalition and the YES movement, so let us together allow a referendum on foreign bases in the Czech Republic. Let's vote for it, please. Conducting a referendum on the same matter. That's what we're adjusting here, too, so that it doesn't have to happen over and over again, so maybe a referendum in a year doesn't take place exactly on the same question, or six months from now, of course, it doesn't have logic, so we're writing it to be conformal again: On the same subject, a referendum may take place at the earliest three years after the date of notification of the result of the vote in the previous referendum. Because once the citizens decide on it in a referendum, they probably don't have the logic to make it the same referendum in six months, right, I think that's obvious. And, of course, we write that the details of holding a referendum, that it will regulate the law, that the law will simply regulate the implementing law, will also adjust the other conditions of exercise of the right to vote in a referendum, the way in which the data on the petition will be verified pursuant to Art. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years under the general budget of the Union for the years 2014-2020. That's basically what I'm talking about right now, what this is about, what we're proposing and why we're proposing it. Like the change in the constitution, it's not really about the number of words or some sentences, so it's really very minimal, we're essentially changing the article. 12 Constitutions, if anyone asks about it, which article is actually changing, or what is actually happening, or how exactly we intend to do it there. The law is in the system, but of course I understand, and I fully understand that you don't have time to go through every hundred laws that are embedded in the system, that's for sure, I don't blame anyone. So, of course, we in this Section 10 para. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 40 the words "Law on the implementation of a national referendum' shall be inserted after the words "Act on the implementation of the national referendum', in Article 40, in conjunction with the words "Act on the implementation of the national referendum'. 62 at the end of point (k), the dot is replaced by a comma and the following point (l) is added: it declares a national referendum and announces its outcome. And then we're replacing different words, different words like "a" and these things to make sense of it. But here the whole sentence is inserted into the Constitution of Art. 87: "The Constitutional Court further decides on the compliance of the proposal for a national referendum with the Constitutional Act on a national referendum and with the Act on its implementation." So here's some renumbering of the paragraphs, and then, of course, we're going to do a little bit more of this. And, of course, we would like the bill to come into effect as soon as possible and, of course, so that it can work. So let's look at the explanatory statement on this law. As here, of course, we have written widely, because it corresponds to the importance of the law and the importance of the law. Reasonable report - when we look at the general part of what we are writing there, it is an assessment of the legal situation in force, the justification of the main principles of the proposed legislation and the explanation of the necessity of the proposed legislation in its entirety. We as SPD propose this law with the conviction that the adoption of a referendum as a commonly used institute will lead to a better democracy in the Czech Republic. The condition is that the question in the referendum is as limited as possible and that citizens' direct decision-making options are as broad as possible. From 1. 1. 1993 The Czech Republic lacks a law on a general referendum, although it does not include an article. Article 2 (1) (a) 2 The Constitution indirectly calls for it. The Czech Republic is one of the few European countries that do not have a referendum law in their legal order. Although the Constitutional Charter of 1920 knew the Institute of referendums, the Act on a General referendum, which was to be implemented by Section 46 of the 1920 Constitution, was rejected as a government bill by the National Assembly. Since the 1920 constitution law was never approved, neither could any general referendum be implemented. A certain scope for the application of direct democracy in the form of a referendum was provided only by the provisions of Art. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ 1 The Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms and its real implementation became constitutional law No. 327/1991 Coll., on the referendum, according to which only the fundamental questions of the form of the state-law arrangement of the Czech and Slovak Federal Republic could be put to the decision in a referendum to the citizens of the Czech and Slovak Federal Republics, and only a referendum could be made on the proposal for the withdrawal of the Czech or Slovak Republics from the Czech and Slovak Federal Republics. The referendum could only be written in this single and very specific case, and this legislation was not implemented in the end. [[15.30 hours]] The essence of the proposed legislation is that it is the subject of a referendum and not a plebiscite, as is known mainly from the French practice of Napoleon III. and Charles de Gaulle. While plebiscite is limited to fundamental issues or simply policy issues, the exercise of state power, such as the Constitution or sovereignty, the referendum is wider and all political issues are the subject of it. The reference should therefore be unlimited in advance, except for the basic obligations of the State, both national and international. Our bill is based on natural law and on the constitutional principle that the sovereign in the Czech Republic, as well as in any democracy, are citizens who either delegate their power to their representatives or exercise it directly. The current system does not allow citizens to do so today. Supporters of the purely representative system claim that citizens have voluntarily given their mandate to their representatives, and they therefore have the right to make decisions. That's exactly what the elite here say. That's exactly the TOP 09, the STAN and all that stuff. These are those who oppose the referendum, and these are your arguments that I've always heard. But those who say that ignore the fact that this kind of mandate, that is, that you say that citizens have voluntarily surrendered their mandate to their representatives, and that is why they have the right to make decisions, so you simply ignore the fact that this kind of mandate creates an internal contradiction. Legitimate mandate is a legitimate gift. It can only be donated voluntarily. And volunteering means that a citizen must have the opportunity not to give a mandate, but to choose the right to make a direct decision through a referendum. The mandate enforced is a false, false, stolen mandate. According to our proposal, every citizen of the Czech Republic has the right to vote in a referendum, which reached an age at the latest on the day of the referendum. A referendum decision is taken if a majority of the votes vote for them, if at least 20 percent of the citizens of the Czech Republic who are entitled to vote in the referendum participated at the same time. I've already talked about this. And now let us look at what the situation is and what the examples are of referendums in democratic countries, in those European democratic countries. And here you will essentially see the situation in which the Czech Republic is in which you, essentially the Fialův Government, make us a completely undemocratic country that doesn't actually meet the basic democratic standards that are in other countries. And you're just trying to call yourself Democrats here, and it's the opposite. Thus, in the legal systems of selected European countries, the national referendum institute is amended as follows. So let's see a) to France. The French Constitution at national level distinguishes the so-called constitutional and legislative referendum. So what is a legislative referendum? The legislative referendum is enshrined in Article 1 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 11 French constitutions. This article allows the President of the Republic, on a proposal from the Government or on a joint proposal from the two chambers of Parliament, to submit a bill to citizens. Such a bill can be adapted to issues relating to the organisation of public authorities, national, economic, social and environmental policies and public services contributing to them, and to the approval of ratification of an international treaty affecting the functioning of the institutions, provided that the international treaty does not conflict with the French Constitution. A referendum, called shared initiatives, may be held on these issues as from 1 January 2015. It can be announced on the initiative of a fifth of the members of Parliament, which must be supported by a tenth of the voters on the electoral lists. This initiative takes the form of a bill and must not derogate the provisions of the law at a time of one year from its publication. A reference to the same proposal may be held after two years after the referendum in which it has not been approved. If the proposal has been approved, the law shall be adopted. This referendum is further regulated in the Constitutional Act No. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 11 French constitutions. The Constitutional Council shall review all the above conditions within one month of the presentation of the draft law. It further examines the contradiction with the French Constitution. Such questions shall be decided by the Constitutional Council in a reasoned decision. The beginning of the period for the collection of electoral signatures shall be set within a month of the publication of the Constitutional Council's decision on compliance with the terms of the referendum. The collection of signatures shall take nine months and shall be carried out in electronic form. The withdrawal of the signature is not possible. The voters are granted access to electronic services through the largest municipalities in each canton to support the bill. The Constitutional Council shall ensure the regularity of the entire process of collecting signatures and shall also review all complaints. And now let's look at the second type of referendum, that's a constitutional referendum. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 89 French constitutions and their purpose is to approve the amendment to the French constitution. The amendment of the French Constitution may be initiated by the President of the Republic on a proposal from the Prime Minister or Members of Parliament. Following approval in both chambers, the proposal for an amendment to the French Constitution is submitted for approval to citizens in a referendum. It is therefore an insurance policy for the amendment of the French Constitution. However, a referendum is not required if the President submits a proposal at a joint meeting of the two chambers of Parliament and receives a three-fifth majority of the votes cast. Issues of the integrity of the territory and Republican form of government are excluded from the amendment of the French Constitution. So I think we can also see here in the French example of how they also have a referendum law, and I think it's another example from democratic countries where there is a referendum law. After all, as I said, I suspect that the Czech Republic is the last country in the EU that has no law on referendums, i.e. when I am not talking about regional referendums, I am talking about national referendums of course. So it was France, it was basically a state in France. [[15.40 hours]] Now let's see what's going on in Germany. It's quite interesting there. So in Germany, though, Art. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The German Constitution expressly states that State power is exercised by the people, inter alia, through elections and votes, otherwise the German Constitution contains only one provision on popular voting, namely in Article 2 (2) of the Basic Law of the Federal Republic of Germany, namely the German Constitution. 29 relating to the change in the division of the Federal territory into a country. In this case, however, only citizens in the territory to be affected are entitled to vote. There is therefore no national vote; no other popular vote can take place at federal level. Yeah, but, of course, the modifications are at the federal level. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) 1 only the Federal Government, the legislative initiative, Members of the Federal Assembly, the Bundestag, and the Federal Council, the Bundesrat. Therefore, the popular initiative is also not possible at the federal level. But it is the referendum that they have adapted at the federal level, at the level of the federal states. So there are those popular votes, or referendums, regulated at the level of the Earth, in the legal systems of all the federal states. I think that needs to be emphasized. So you can see, both in Germany, in the German Federal Republic, at the level of all the federal states, they have laws on referendums. The adjustments in each country are very different, such as Bavaria and Brandenburg. So let's take a look at Bavaria. The basics are given in the Earth's constitution, which is the subject of Article 4 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. 71 states that drafts of laws are submitted by the Earth's government, by Members of the Assembly of the Earth or by the people, the so-called People's Request. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter Yes, Art. 73 excludes the state budget from the adoption of popular decisions, which must be adopted by the Land Assembly. The procedure for the submission of a folk request, respectively by the People's Decision, is governed by the Landeswahlgesetz in Sections 62 to 82. The application for authorisation of a People's Request shall be submitted to the Land Ministry of Interior, Construction and Transport. It must be a drawn up and justified bill with signatures of 25 000 eligible voters, their right to vote is demonstrated when the proposal is made. I'd just add these signatures don't have to be verified. It doesn't have to be verified. Well, that's what we're proposing in our own, in our Czech law. The Ministry shall publish the People's Request and determine the 14-day period within which voters may sign the application. The municipality shall determine the place and time for signing the application. The signature must be self-donorable. Any person who swears on a given form that he has not been able to enter the place for signature during the entire period of time to sign the application for the disease may confirm his support for the application on the form and the person responsible for the application shall bring the form to the place designated for signature. The signature may not be verified. In order for the People's Request to be valid, 10 per cent of the eligible voters need to support it. In response to such a request, the Government of the Earth must express its position and refer it to the Earth's Assembly. He'll discuss it in three months. If it is adopted unchanged, the People's Decisions shall not take place, otherwise the People's Decisions on the application shall be published within a further period of three months. If the Land Assembly rejects the request, it may submit its own draft law as an alternative to the People's Decision together with the People's Request. The bill is approved if it receives more 'yes' than 'no', i.e. by simple majority. However, in order to adopt the laws of the changing constitution, the 'yes' votes must account for at least 25 per cent of the votes of all eligible voters. Well, you see, here it is, it's exactly what I've been saying since the beginning in Bavaria, that it's basically enough for a simple majority to approve. That's it. So they're really democratic here, as the SPD suggests. In addition, the People's Decision is in Bavaria pursuant to Article 4 (1) (a) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 2 The Constitution needs to be approved by any amendment The amendment is first approved by the Land Assembly by a two-thirds majority and then confirmed by a folk decision by a simple majority. And that's exactly the situation where, as we know, the government's five-calice are pushing the draft of the constitution here, too. You are pushing the amendment of the Constitution so that without the approval of the House, you can basically for whatever reason you invent so that you can broadcast Czech soldiers, Czech citizens abroad, and also allow foreign soldiers to stay here. And that's the change in the constitution that Secretary Černochová of the ODS, Secretary of Defense and the Fialův Government are also pushing. Well, that's what you could use as a complement to the current Czech - US treaty on American bases in the Czech Republic, so that Prime Minister Fiala could actually lie here again, like he did last spring and said the Czech Republic was at war. Well, under this pretext, actually, a threat to security, as you now want to change the constitution, so you could basically drag the Czech Republic into any war. So this is really a very dangerous amendment to the Constitution in the hands of the Fialův's five-calice government, in the hands of war fighters, of course, who want to drag us into war at all costs, and that is, of course, wrong. Well, I'd hear you say that again, I can see it now, it's pro-Russian, pro-putin and all this lies and nonsense that most people don't trust you with anyway. So it's not like that. We just don't want war, we want peace. And the Czech Republic is not at war, so don't drag us into it. So this is just, this is pretty clear. So you see, here in Bavaria, it just takes a referendum to change the constitution. It's basically the Swiss model. And I think that would be appropriate. I think it would be appropriate to change the constitution, that it concerns the most serious ever, the most important pillar in essence, on which the Czech democracy or the Czech state stands, so I think it would be quite appropriate for Czech citizens to vote on the amendment of the constitution. And that, of course, is what our proposal for a referendum law makes possible. Our law allows it. By the way, our referendum law is also a change in the constitution, so that - this is a constitutional amendment, a referendum law. And here I would just add that, perhaps in Switzerland, even there is a mandatory vote in a referendum on tax change. That's what I was when I first brought the topic of referendum to Parliament, wasn't it, when I came here, it was my theme from the start - a referendum, to promote democracy. That's why the wannabe Democrats started calling me undemocratic, and they started to argue because they're so afraid of referendums. This means, on the contrary, the one who advocates the referendum is the pinnacle of democracy, as you no longer have an argument - so I remember all this, these wannabe elites, how they turned it all over. So they flipped everything, because, of course, for the elites, the proposal is, for the elites, a referendum is a danger, because you won't be able to do all the things you're doing now. Anyway, that's what we're talking about, like, the base contract. [[15.50 hours]] In Switzerland... I remember how the opponents of the referendum said, well, for example, about the taxes, the opponents of the referendum said that people can't vote on taxes. Like don't make fools of us. From the citizens. In Switzerland, taxes are voted on because they have VAT in the Constitution. They have VAT in the Constitution. And that's an added value tax translation. So, of course, I - a referendum on raising VAT in Switzerland took place a few years ago. It even happened. That means, that's right, there's a vote on taxes in Switzerland, not all of them, but there's a vote on VAT. If the government wants to increase VAT, that is to say, people see that the government, for example, is managing badly or is managing badly, that is why they have this basic insurance policy, as if the government wanted to increase VAT on a flat-rate basis, they have a VAT rate in the constitution, and it is a question of referendum. It is precisely so that a government that robs a country like the Purple government and robs people so that they can't spontaneously increase all people's taxes, VAT, because it affects all people across the board, so the Švýcar have it in the constitution. Well, that would, of course, come in handy here, because it's the Fialův government that has now come up with a flat-rate VAT increase and that you're robbing all citizens of their money. That's exactly it. You see exactly how it works in real democracy, in real democracies, I'm talking about Bavaria, I'm talking about Switzerland. What the Fialův government is doing here, if you weren't basically saying anything about raising taxes before the election, on the contrary, you said you wouldn't raise taxes, now you're doing the opposite, you cheated everyone, especially your voters, you cheated. Our voter isn't cheated. He knew exactly what he could expect from Petr Fiala and Mrs Pekarová Adamová, from Vít Rakušan and Co., from Ivan Bartoš and these people, from Mr Jurečka of KDU-ČSL. He knew, which is why he didn't vote for them either. But really, those who feel the most cheating, and I've met many at events, are the voters of the government's five-calice. They feel extremely cheating, and most importantly, they are many ODS voters, because of course they were the most. They feel extremely cheated, and they regret voting for the ODS, at least at this point they regret it, they tell me. They feel cheated. Our voter wasn't cheated because he suspected it, and the five-calice parties didn't logically vote. But the person who just voted mostly for the ODS tells me a lot of people that they feel cheated because the ODS is doing something completely different than she promised before the election. I think even these voters would welcome it if they could stop the Fialův Government in the form of a referendum law, because that would certainly be an excellent question in the referendum: Do you want to increase VAT? Citizens would say "no" and it would be binding and it would be done. So you'd finally have to cut all the unnecessary expenses that you're throwing out to God knows where to go abroad and to different strangers and so on. You couldn't do expensive foreign contracts and so on, those overpriced contracts. This means that it would be ideal for any approval of the amendment to the Constitution to go through a referendum. After all, why not ask the citizens a question about the referendum law? Why not make a one-time referendum on a simple question: Do you want a referendum law? Yes, no. Well, the citizens themselves would make a binding decision, and I think it would be democratic. But that's not what you want. Let's take a look further, let's look at another German Greek country, what the situation is, what it looks like, and let's look at Brandenburg for example. The Constitution of Brandenburg, on the one hand, referred to in Article 4 (1) (a) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU), is hereby amended as follows: 75 states that bills may be submitted by the people in the form of a popular request by Members of the Earth Assembly and the Earth Government. That's German for Volksbegehren. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1 on the People's Initiative, all residents have the right to submit to the Earth's Assembly, within its jurisdiction, a matter of political decision-making, including draft laws and proposals for dissolution of the Earth's Assembly. Thus, the popular initiative is not limited to the legislative initiative as in Bavaria. Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) 2 identifies as an inadmissible folk initiative concerning the Earth's budget. This is similar to in Bavaria from this point of view. Also regarding the salaries of civil servants, social security benefits, fees and personnel decisions. I would not completely agree with this here, because in the Czech Republic we have a problem with the abuse of social benefits inadequate and also Ukrajinec. After all, there was a story about it on Prima TV right now. She finally gave us the truth that Ukrainian migrants here are massively taking advantage of social benefits because the Fialův government is wrong and has set up too generously. Exactly, all citizens in the Czech Republic are paying for your activism and incompetence. So Ukrajinec here are robbing our social services. I saw the story on TV. She was right about us. Young Ukrajinec, I don't know what they're doing here, why the Fialův government tolerates it here, I thought they should fight in Ukraine when they're such patriots. Young Ukrajinec don't work here, they roll around for welfare benefits, and they abuse benefits. It's just like I said. This is wrong, and I think that's enough. When I saw that she still painted the ruling coalition here at the Prague City Hall, she now recolored the tram to Ukrainian national colors, so that's the highlight. So money to redecorate the tram yes, gluing the tram but working for Czech citizens zero. minusový even because you're robbing them of money, of the promised valorization of pensions and so on. And now you're going to raise taxes in general. The ODS is planning a general tax increase. That's right. So I just wanted to say that this is really over the line. Instead of focusing on the work needed for Czech citizens, the coalition at the Prague City Council, there is exactly a coalition in the composition of the government coalition here, at national level, that the coalition of the ODS, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09, Pirates and STAN rules there. So the priority of this coalition is to tape the tram to Ukrainian colors and take pictures. And this is how they spend their time, instead of creating something positive for the citizens. Well, that's really awful, and it needs to be talked about, and it needs to be said out loud. We in the SPD say that the priority must be the Czech citizen. That's just the way it is. And we are trying to spend all our energy working for Czech citizens. Of course, this includes international policy. That's for sure. Let's move on. The fact that a referendum on social security benefits is not admissible in Brandenburg, I would just say that would be the case in the Czech Republic... so, on the other hand, our Act on the referendum from the SPD allows this to happen, because the end of the abuse of ill-adaptable benefits, which I think would be appropriate as a question for the referendum, but that is what the government's five-wheelers are preventing. I would just like to remind you that this was last spring when the members of the Fialův Government five-wheeled women here in the House rejected the SPD law to end the abuse of doses that were inadaptable. That means Fialův's five-callice government supports inadaptable and steals money from decent Czech citizens. That's your policy. That's Fialův's government coalition policy. [[16.00 hours]] So it's really wrong, and of course, it's the Prim pirát that play it all. That is clear, because our bill to end the abuse of doses inadaptable - well, I will also get to that in the proposal on the agenda, because I am only at the first point where I propose a change. But I still have a lot of points here, so of course we need to discuss all this and justify everything in accordance with the House's Rules of Procedure, why and what I propose and why and what the SPD proposes. Well, of course we'll get to that. So in any case, here in Brandenburg, they say that, therefore, the referendum on social security benefits is not, but the reality here is different, and I think that Germany will probably be gradually leaning towards it, so maybe I would say that it could also be a referendum because we have news from Germany from our AfD partner party, which is now the second strongest party in Germany and in East German countries is even the strongest party, we are together in our patriotic faction in the European Parliament, together with Marine Le Pen and Mattee Salvini and with other friends and friends of mine, so, of course, they are already in second place. And here I am again hearing Mrs Pekarová, who would have said at that point, Mrs Pekarová Adamová would have said, "These are extremists." So she calls 20, 40 percent of the citizens of the countries of former East Germany as extremists calmly. That's just crazy arrogance. The crazy arrogance this lady is showing off. It's just not my House Chairman. She's not the president of the House of All People lying here at the beginning. It's not. He's just a guy who insults voters with one slam. That's just completely insane. How can he even afford to talk about citizens like that? So it is not, and I just hope that the AfD will succeed and that it simply, because the security in Germany, like the German migration policy, is a threat to us. By the way, I wrote about it two days ago, so now I don't know if it's still true, but two days ago, it was true that even after more than a week, the police couldn't arrest the black guy who was suspected of being raped from a brutal rape at Letna in Prague. So, the photo is published, of course, we've all seen it. Well, anyway, it's really awful, but we're obviously becoming worldly in these parameters. And we in the SPD aren't gonna get used to that sort of thing that the Fialův government dragged us into. We just don't want to get used to it. They're just inadaptable people who rape here, it's obvious, and we just don't want any more inadaptable people around here anymore. I think that's enough. So what the Fialův Government has dragged us into, and it wants to drag us in by agreeing with the EU migration pact, with the reform of the migration policy, where you're here to drag us just unadaptable migrants into the Czech Republic. And I'm saying it the way it is. That's exactly what the citizens say. That's right. I agree with them. To reach out to us literally inadaptable migrants in the African, Arab countries. That's what you agreed to. The argument that we have enough other migrants here that you, too, have accepted, 300,000 and even more maybe, so that's completely incredible. Unbelievable what you're getting us all mixed up in. That's awful. That's crazy completely. Crazy! It means, it's just awful and like you're taking completely irreversible steps. It also concerns this Czech-American treaty about those bases in the Czech Republic, that these bases may be here, and it concerns these things as well. So the situation is really scary, and it's just really going to get worse with your government. Let's go back to my proposal for a point, but I've been talking about it all along, and I'm here to justify why I want to put our referendum law before the first item of today's meeting. So let's go to Brandenburg. To the admissibility of the popular initiative, this law, like the German one in Brandenburg, that an initiative on a matter which has already been unsuccessfully taken over the past 12 months, is inadmissible. [[unintelligible]] The People's Initiative, i.e. the referendum, must contain a reasoned text of the bill or other proposal. It requires 20,000 non-verified personal unverified signatures of authorised persons with that name, date of birth and residence. The People's Initiative is presented to the Earth's Assembly. It's interesting here, of course, that they actually have it basically that democratically, which is definitely a good thing they don't have a ID number or a birth number. It doesn't say the ID number, it doesn't say the birth number. In fact, in order to be able to raise the referendum, it is basically enough that only the name, date of birth, residence and signature should be mentioned on the petition ark, on the list. Unverified signature. Unverified. So the really nice thing about it is that in Brandenburg, they're trying to make it a referendum, so that citizens can just have the opportunity to express themselves in a referendum. So it's exactly the opposite. It's exactly the opposite of what the Fialův government is trying to do. So you go to a meeting of the Sudeten German Landsmanshaft, so you're fraternizing with the Sudeten German Landsmanshaft, which was founded by the forged Nazis and fascists, even by those who participated in shooting Czech patriots at the Kobyli Shooting range during World War II, so there are the exponents TOP 09, ČSSD, ODS. No, ODS, that was different. ODS, he took pictures - Petr Fiala took pictures with Bernd Posselt, yes. That's the legendary picture of them fraternizing and being friends. But KDU-ČSL goes there, they go there regularly, where you bow to landmanshaft. That's where the TOP 09 goes. Yes, I remember, Mr Korte, for example, was there, Daniel Korte. Then there's the ČSSD, Mrs Marksová Tominová and others and so on. So, of course, you would expect to learn about democracy at the same time. But you don't care, you're only interested in landmanshaff, who challenges Benešův's decrees. And that, of course, is also the red line for us, because we will certainly not question the Benešův decrees. Only collaborators can do that. Well, let's go to Braniborsko. If, within four months, the Land Assembly adopts an unchanged version of the People's Initiative, it shall not proceed to the People's Request. If it is adopted, a folk request shall be made for the organisation of representatives of the People's Initiative. The application shall be published together with the names and addresses of the representatives of the People's Initiative and a six-month period for signing it. This can be done in two ways: either in a designated place or in correspondence. When signing at the designated place, the person must prove himself sufficiently. For a correspondence vote, a form and an envelope shall be received and the voter shall swear on the form that it is his personal decision, and the signature may not be verified again. In addition, support for the application may also be made before the mayor, notary or other authorised place. 80,000 authorised persons' signatures are required for the validity of the People's Request. So we see that there are 80,000 signatures here. In any case, it is rather lower in numbers, lower in numbers, so that citizens can implement the referendum. [[16.10 hours]] So what is the next step after the citizens have approved the referendum that it would take place? So if the Earth Assembly fails to comply with the People's Request within two months, it will take place within the next three months of the People's Decision. The Earth Assembly may declare the application pending, even if it accepts the application in an amended form which still corresponds to the basic meaning of the application. However, this decision may be challenged by representatives of the People's Initiative in the Land Constitutional Court. If the Land Assembly has rejected the request, it may add its own competitive proposal to the popular vote. The proposal is adopted in the People's Decision if a simple majority agrees with it, but must also represent at least one quarter of all eligible voters. The draft law expressly amending the Constitution requires a two-thirds majority of the votes cast to be adopted, representing at least one half of all eligible voters. Derogations are laid down for a proposal to dissolve the Earth's Assembly, where the People's Initiative requires 150,000 signatures, a folk request must be supported by 200,000 signatures within a period of four months, and a two-thirds majority of the votes cast must be taken, which must represent at least half of all eligible voters. So we took a short look at how they have a modified referendum law in the first two... or I showed you two cases of two countries democratic, Western, it's France and it's Germany. So here we generally see, when I sum up, before I get to the other examples, that the conditions for this referendum, especially if we look at Germany, are very helpful to the citizens, and that it is you who constantly look to Germany - but the problem is that the Fialův Government only looks up to it when orders and instructions come in, so there you are always servile, so I would like you to take an example from these democratic issues and, of course, to reflect these democratic principles and take examples from these good things as well. So not just the bad guys like the uncontrolled migration wave to Germany, and now the Fialův government wants to copy and turn us into a migrant country. That's just crazy. Yeah, yeah, yeah, if you wanted to do this, and there was this referendum bill so the citizens could put you on a stop sign, that would, of course, be something else. "Stop" I mean, for example, that you approved, the Fialův government, the reform of migration policy. Let's go to the next country. Rakousko, yes. So I'm going to take the countries in our neighborhood on purpose so we can have the right examples here. In Austria, the popular vote, i.e. a referendum, is more widely regulated at the federal level. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 43 Austrian constitutions hold a popular vote on each bill if the National Council so decides or if most of its members so request. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European In the event of a partial amendment, only if a third of the members of the National Council or the Federal Council so request, that is the Bundesrat. In the People's vote, the absolute majority of the votes cast shall act in a valid manner. The contract isn't set. The mandatory popular vote will also take place in the event of an appeal by the Federal President in which the decision of the National Council on its appeal has to be confirmed in this way. In addition to voting on legislative proposals which have already been discussed in Parliament, the Austrian Constitution offers in Art. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objectives of the Programme. The so-called People's Request may take the form of a bill or initiative and must be supported by one permile of eligible voters. The statement of aid confirms the municipality in which the person is entitled to vote and must either be signed at the employment office... sorry, at the municipality's office, or must be signed in court or notarized. So here we see how interesting it is, when essentially in Austria, there's basically verification of the signatures. The Federal Interior Minister then decides to submit a folk application for signing within three weeks. The period for signing shall normally be eight days. Here I would add - but again you can see that although the signatures have been verified, the necessary number of signatures to call for a referendum is lower than that. That needs to be said at the same time. So there is a formal obstacle or formal difficulty, but it also reflects a lower number of signatures in Austria. So it's all the more helpful. So maybe it's also a method of course, why not? So not 250,000 signatures, not 100,000 signatures, but just 20,000 signatures, but verified. So, of course, it's also definitely for discussion because it's important that there is a referendum law here in the Czech Republic. That's our priority. And let's move on to what happens when they receive... or citizens manage to get one pardoned electorate under that popular request. The Federal Interior Minister then decides to submit a folk application for signing within three weeks. The period for signing shall normally be eight days. The municipalities shall determine the places where people can sign the request, no correspondence vote is possible. The People's request must be discussed by the National Council if 100,000 authorised persons' signatures are collected or one sixth of the authorised persons from the three Länder, but they do not have to accept the requested proposal. In addition, the Austrian Constitution provides for the provisions of Art. 49b People's vote to be taken by the National Council on a proposal from its members or the Federal Council. It may concern all matters of major or all-Austrian importance, subject to elections and matters which are to be decided by the courts or the administrative authorities. The result of the vote is non-binding. That was Austria. And, of course, I promised you here a moment ago that I would introduce you to the models of how the popular vote is adjusted - or someone says the popular vote, in any case it is a referendum - that I would introduce you to the systems in the surrounding countries so that you all see how the Czech Republic is behind and what is the democratic deficit here because of the Fialův Government. So let's go see Slovakia. The legal regulation of the referendum is enshrined in the Slovak Republic in Article 2 (1) (a) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 93 and subsequently the Constitution of the Slovak Republic and Act No. 564/1992 Coll., on the method of carrying out referendums. It is distinguished between the referendum on mandatory and optional, to which the information below refers. Within the optional type of referendum, issues of public interest may be addressed, in addition to fundamental rights and freedoms, taxes, levies and the state budget. The minimum number of signatures to draw up a referendum is 350 000, with the participation of the majority of eligible voters being necessary for the validity of the referendum. [[16.20 hours]] And here I have to stop by again, because of course I already see bad languages that say: Well, there has not been a single referendum in Slovakia. Well, the Slovák, of course, since they've already made the referendum bill, which is commendable, but at the same time, they've put in such a high bargain that the wolf eats and the goat stays whole. This means that the situation is really such that they have a referendum law, but they have such a high number of signatures for calling a referendum and such a high level of participation in that referendum, a majority of the eligible voters, that there was no referendum. Because it's really unbelievable. This way, from my point of view, of course, we're pushing for a direct democracy to be introduced here at the national level, so of course, at least some referendum law is better than none. Yeah, of course, of course. However, we can see what it's like in Slovakia in the finals because the politicians themselves are actually disgusting voters by putting such a high deal on the table, and that no referendum can actually take place there. So 350,000 signatures have been collected there a couple of times, but of course there's a majority of eligible voters, participation, so of course that's wrong. And those politicians are denying themselves and actually mocking people. Because take the view that when you vote on politicians themselves, that is, in elections, for example, electoral participation in elections, for example, in regional elections is about 40 per cent, in elections to the European Parliament even 18 per cent, I suspect that there was electoral participation in the past, in elections to the Senate in the second round is even less than 10 per cent, nine per cent and so on. So when politicians want to be elected themselves, there's no vote for citizens to just be elected by that politician in any case, but when a citizen has to decide, he suddenly puts him on high... He's supposed to decide something instead of politics, so he's gonna put him in a high-ranking position so he can't make any decisions. So, of course, this is not really a good situation in Slovakia from this point of view, because there really is this opposite where politicians themselves recognize elections, where vote participation is to be multiplied by what citizens are required to do in the event of a referendum. And that's wrong. That, of course, contradicts each other. Therefore, not only for this reason, it would be a good idea for the national referendum - and so the SPD originally proposes it, now we put 20% participation in it, but that is, of course... We're also trying to be very low, but I said again, that's all I put in there for this parliamentary term, so that we can at least convince one of you to nod to the referendum bill, to let it go through first reading at least, and at second reading to make it a political compromise. In fact, even in terms of the fact that there is no quorum in the election and that even one person can elect a senator for six years. Yes, one person can choose a senator. And one person can elect a president in the Czech Republic if the others don't vote. So there's no kvorum. And that's what I'm saying, that's okay, that's just the way it is. But all of a sudden, you want a high-ranking referendum. That really doesn't make any sense, because that citizen's voice has exactly the same weight, no matter what situation he's in. That's democracy, that's just it. But as politicians of other parties, you can use the citizen's voice in a situation where they vote for you, but when the same citizen wants to decide something else, you just suddenly send him somewhere and actually turn your back on him. Otherwise, the Slovak legislation does not provide for a subsequent verification of the authenticity of the signature. That's how we see it, and that's how I propose it, by the way. But it's not that I'm inspired here by the Slovak arrangements, as I said, it's also in other countries. Further, of course, the possibility of a popular initiative in the draft law through a referendum is not excluded by the Constitution of the Slovak Republic. So let's see, I still have one neighboring country left, so I guess you know what it is, and it's Poland, which I haven't talked about yet. The legislation on referendums in Poland is enshrined in Article 1 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row shall be the amount reported in column 060 of this row. 125 Polish Constitution and Act No. 57 on the national referendum. It is distinguished between the referendum on mandatory and optional, to which the information below applies, which I shall provide. Within the optional type of referendum, things of special importance to the state may be addressed, except in matters of expenditure, income, defence of the state or amnesty. The minimum number of signatures to draw up a referendum is 500,000, with the participation of the majority of eligible voters being necessary for the validity of the referendum. The Polish legislation provides for an obligation for subsequent verification of the authenticity of signatures, 63 of Law No. 57. And now, of course, I'm gonna stop by the 500,000 signatures. Some might say 500,000 signatures again. See, there's 500,000 signatures, that's a lot you could say. Because, you see, you say, well, let's put more signatures in there. Yeah, well, you don't realize, again, those who would say that, and I could already see someone here that Poland has four times the population of the Czech Republic. So in terms of population, the 500,000 signatures in Poland are low. Right low. When I proposed 100,000 signatures in my proposal for a referendum in the last parliamentary term, the CSSD and the ANO movement and others were here to put in monstrous numbers of signatures so that no referendum could actually take place. But 100,000 signatures - the Czech Republic has a quarter of its population than Poland. So actually Poland, if you divide by four, it's just over 100,000 signatures. So this is how it needs to be seen. This needs to be seen in the overall context. So what the SPD is suggesting here is that there's still a political referendum against those opponents... we're trying very hard to get you to agree to that. [[helpful?]] But the right suggestion was my original one when I proposed 100,000 signatures. That was the right democratic proposal. This one I'm putting forward in this parliamentary term is also democratic because we only have 20 Members out of 200 and we need 120 here for the referendum proposal, it's a constitutional change, so of course I've given up on those parameters in some way. But I see it's not going anywhere with those other party MPs anyway. Otherwise, the Polish legislation is interesting in that it thus provides for the obligation to verify the authenticity of signatures. The possibility of the People's Initiative on the Bill is enshrined in Article 4 (1) (a) of the Act. 118 Polish Constitutions and Act No. 62 on the exercise of legislative initiatives by citizens. Subsequent use shall be subject to Parliament's approval. Well, I'll just keep going, I've just remembered one thing in this context. I couldn't believe my eyes again. I thought Mrs Pekarová Adamová here at TOP 09 couldn't surprise me anymore, but she's actually saying the same stupid things as the pirát who have been spreading the message that she said when the opposition talks here for a long time, how much does an hour of House meetings cost? And they said it like we're still standing here with the money. And now Mrs Pekarová Adamová said in the media a few days ago, she calculated an hour of the House meeting, now I don't know how much, but there was another number. I don't know if the luxury BMW 7 series, the state that she's riding with, and if she's included the personal waiter who's paying for the public money that brings her food. I don't know if she counted on it, I don't think so, because she's always there counting what she wants. And the other luxury she surrounds herself with public money. But in any case, it's unbelievable what he already dares to do, the representatives of the government's five-caliber. [[16.30 hours]] So you're here to rob three million pensioners of the promised valorization, you're going to rob them of tens of billions, and now Mrs. Pekarová is arguing that if we're here as opposition parties trying to prevent it from stealing tens of billions, then you're arguing with some of the many order lower amounts for the House's negotiations? This is unbelievable! That's a lie. That's a foul lie that the House President is doing here. We're gonna keep from stealing from this place. So now that your consolidation package is here in July, which you want to rob people of over 100 billion crowns, rob them of their wallets, all the decent people and our companies, Czech companies, Mrs Pekarová Adamová here argues on behalf of the government coalition that if we are here to prevent it from going through, that we are still spending money here? Well, that's crazy. It's unbelievable completely. This is unbelievable! So she would like to - that's exactly why I said she had fascinating tendencies, and I stand by it - that we here, as opposition, put our feet in a corner and keep our mouths shut and step towards robbing people, to the fact that you want to establish foreign military bases in the Czech Republic. That's totally unbelievable. That's an incredible argument. That's what the pirát said, and now Mrs Pekarová Adamová says, how much does an hour of House meetings cost? But you forget to say that thousands of times more, maybe many times more, you just steal from the citizens of the Czech Republic by tens of billions, literally taking money out of their pockets. Exactly! I'm not talking about how you're making health care worse and how you're taking medical money, which, in turn, is being paid by our citizens. Since you've already taken 14 billion, now you want to take another 14 billion, as we've heard. Almost 30 billion combined. So there's a risk that insurance companies won't have any more reserves, which, of course, is a big problem. So I had to mention that here, because I would have guessed again how the pirát and Mrs Pekarová Adamová from TOP 09 will be lying here. 'Cause I've been talking here for, like, two and a half hours, and I can see them saying something like that again. Lie to the lie again. We just think it's necessary to assign other laws, not stealing from people who are showing off your government. Notaben, you didn't even promise to rob people in your election vows. You even explicitly said you wouldn't raise taxes. You said you wouldn't raise taxes, you said you wouldn't even increase property tax. The ODS had it explicitly in promotional materials. We will not increase taxes and we will not increase property tax, had ODS on election material. You're doing the exact opposite of a live voter scam! You can just say that your government has come to power by fraud. Because if you had said that to the voters before the election, you wouldn't have the electoral result you had, that's pretty clear if you said you were going to raise taxes across the board. So from this point of view, it doesn't even have legitimacy, because even legally, if it weren't for the House, if it wasn't for the political choice, it would actually be from a normal law point of view that you've misled the citizens, and basically that act would be invalid. But you're actually here with impunity, without any political punishment, you were actually saying something else before the election, and now you're doing something completely different. So let us now look further at the expected financial scope of the proposed legislation on the state budget and other public budgets. Expenditure from the state budget on the implementation of this constitutional law will depend on the frequency of use of the institute referendum in practice. In the case of a referendum on the accession of the Czech Republic to the European Union in 2003, it was only possible to vote on the territory of the Czech Republic. These total expenditures amounted to approximately CZK 401.6 million according to the State Final Account for 2003. Of course, here I can only add that a) these will be serious questions. That's why there's a contract for the signatures. Secondly, we suggest that, as I said, if it's six months before any election, it takes place together with the elections. Thirdly, I must point out here that democracy cannot be balanced with money. That's always the purpose, the double standard that some of the representatives of the Fialův government have here. When it suits them, they have a full mouth of democracy, while defending democracy themselves here, they are against democracy and defending the bill of referendum. At the same time, when it suits you, on the one hand, you're redoing Ukrainian streetcars and posting different flags, and I don't know what everything is, but when it doesn't suit you, you're suddenly measuring democracy to money. But democracy can't be balanced with money, we can't measure it like that. It's either democracy or it isn't, and it has nothing to do with any money. That's my opinion. Compliance of the proposed regulation with international obligations and constitutional order. Yes, here I would say that the proposed legislation is in line with the international obligations of the Czech Republic, including those arising from the law of the European Union, such as the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights of 1966 and the 1950 European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, as amended by the Additional Protocols, and is in line with the principles of constitutional order. The draft constitutional law is in accordance with the resolution of the Supreme Administrative Court of 13. 12. 2012 on the nature of the petition attached to the candidate list as President of the Republic. Our draft constitutional law does not incorporate and contradict the regulations of the European Union into the rule of law of the Czech Republic. The draft constitutional law assumes that an implementing law will be passed on to it. That's what I was talking about. Since the voting procedure in the referendum is similar to the voting procedure in the elections to the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament, institutions identical to those applied in those elections, in particular those contained in Act No. 114/2003 Coll., on the implementation of the referendum on the accession of the Czech Republic to the European Union and on the amendment of certain laws. The Act on the implementation of the referendum, which has proven itself in the implementation of the first referendum. The draft constitutional law excludes the vote on fundamental rights and freedoms guaranteed by constitutional order and international treaties, as well as the vote leading to violations of international obligations of the Czech Republic. Under the rules in force, it is also necessary to assess the impact of proposed legislation on the protection of privacy and personal data on the business environment, social sphere and the environment. Here I can say that the draft of our constitutional law will not have a direct impact on the protection of privacy and personal data, on the business environment, on the social sphere and on the environment. There is still a need to write an assessment under the rules of this regulation in relation to non-discrimination. I note that the draft constitutional law has no discriminatory potential. Even corruption risks still need to be written down. I think it is clear that the bill on referendums has no corrupt potential, it is precisely the opposite. [[16.40 hours]] So let's see what part of this law I'm actually changing, the constitution. Because I haven't even gotten to that yet. So let's take this one step at a time. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The basic purpose of the constitutional law, which is to comply with the provisions of Article 1 (1) of the provision, is to express the fundamental purpose of the constitutional law. Article 2 (1) This constitutional law will not apply to the referendum referred to in Art. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 2 Constitution of the Czech Republic. The reference referred to in Article 10a (1) shall be made in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 10a (2). This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objectives of the Programme. 10a Constitution which may be delegated to an international organisation or institution by certain powers of the institutions of the Czech Republic. The special constitutional law procedure is chosen in this special case because, pursuant to Article 10a of the Constitution, it is decided to transfer certain specific powers of the institutions of the Czech Republic to an international organisation or institution and it is for the Constitutional Tribunal to assess whether the ratification of a specific international treaty, which transfers certain powers of the institutions of the Czech Republic to an international organisation or institution, will require Parliament's approval, or whether a constitutional law will be adopted, which states that the ratification will require consent given in a referendum. Article 2. The draft constitutional law expresses interest in the decision of the citizens of the Czech Republic themselves on matters of general interest of a fundamental nature concerning the internal or foreign policy of the State. The draft constitutional law takes account of the exercise of the will of the majority, but at the same time lays the necessary limits on matters which cannot be the subject of a referendum. The protection of constitutionally guaranteed rights and freedoms of individuals and groups of the population is monitored. The referendum cannot decide on the fundamental rights and freedoms of the individual and groups of the population guaranteed by constitutional order. The concept of the proposed proposal rests on the factual assumption that the rationality of state financial policy must also be protected, as the government has sole responsibility for the administration of the State. It is therefore stipulated in the proposal that no decision can be taken on the State budget in a referendum or a decision which would involve an intervention in the legislation or the administration of taxes, fees or other similar cash transactions. Decision-making on the occupation or removal of functions in individual cases would undermine the system of application laid down by the Constitution and the Law, therefore it is also impossible for these matters to be decided in a referendum. The procedure in which individual rights and obligations of persons are decided shall be excluded. An intervention in a specific procedure cannot be considered a matter of fundamental importance from the point of view of the State, so this provision is explicitly excluded in a referendum on the question of intervention in the proceedings in which the rights and obligations of persons are decided. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row: Original deduction according to Article 36 (1) point (a) of CRR. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 81 and 82 constitutions. Well, of course, here you can see that we have the proposal worked out really closely and really well. Constitutional lawyers worked on it, based on my assignment, of course. And, of course, here, we are essentially allowing a vote to be made on all the fundamental issues that concern the Czech Republic's operation, which are of interest to citizens. And, as I say, we would like the citizens themselves to be able to decide in case of interest, if they collect signatures, on matters of general interest of a fundamental nature. The word "essential" needs to be emphasized here, which is the essence and intensity of the subject, that is why there is the limit to the number of signatures. That's why he's there. So the arguments of the opponents of the referendum, who say Okamura wants to run the Czech Republic referendums, that's a lie. You're lying! That's not true again, that's another lie. That's why there's the credit for the signatures, so that it's clear that this concerns fundamental issues. Serious things that interest at least hundreds of thousands of citizens. And, of course, they are more interested because most citizens, or a large proportion of citizens, do not have the opportunity to sign the petition somewhere, because they need to be from small towns or simply not meet the stand or the place where they can sign, and so on. So you can't put an equal between the number of signatures and the interest of a citizen. From the look of someone saying that the signatures aren't enough, that 250,000 signatures aren't enough, it's not at all. On the contrary, as I have already told you here and this comparison with other countries, there are referendums all around us, they have laws on referendums in all surrounding countries, of course, and others, so the number of signatures is basically even lower there. So that's it. So let's go to art. 3 of our bill. The provisions regulate the requirements for the formulation of the question to be put in the referendum. It is based on the fact that more questions may be raised on one issue in the referendum, if they are not in conflict with one another. In this regard, it cannot be excluded that the question of a referendum will be formulated in a suggestive manner or that a question which may not be formulated in a clear manner will be raised. And if possible... But from that point on we have it clearly defined, so that it is formulated so that the question can be answered clearly "yes" or "no." So let's move on to Article. 4. We clearly state that every citizen of the Czech Republic who has reached the date of commencement of the collection of signatures of 18 years is entitled to propose a referendum if his petition is supported by at least 250,000 citizens of the Czech Republic who have reached the date of signature of the age of 18 years, including signatures under Art. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. 2. The period for the collection of signatures on this petition shall begin from the date of commencement of the collection of signatures under petitions and shall end 12 months after the date on which the decision of the Constitutional Court, which has expressed the compliance of the proposal to hold a referendum with constitutional order and law pursuant to Art. 11, became enforceable. Signatures under petition according to our proposal - and you can see that this is also in those other proposals - need not be officially verified, as this would constitute an excessive administrative obstacle. In any event, as in the case of petitions in the course of the election of the President of the Republic, it will always be in the interests of the applicant to collect a higher number of signatures in order to avoid questioning such a petition or a relative number of signatures below it. The Parliament of the Czech Republic is also entitled to propose a referendum. The agreement of an absolute majority of all Members and an absolute majority of the Senators present shall be required to submit the proposal. So I've already said that just to make sure that the Members or the Senators here are not sorry, so I put it in there, we put in that law the possibility that a referendum can be proposed by Parliament. It's either citizens or Parliament. [[16.50 hours]] The proposal for a referendum must contain a specific question or questions on the same matter to be decided in the referendum. A motion for a referendum shall be submitted to the President of the Republic. That's what I said, that's the article number 4 that we're changing, or that's our amendment to the Constitution. So let's go to Article. 5: The Constitutional Court will assess whether the proposal for a referendum is in line with constitutional order and also with the Act on the implementation of the national referendum under Art. 1. Well, we've said that before, I've said that, actually, I'm recapitulating it now, that, of course, so that someone doesn't say that the question about the referendum isn't in accordance with the Constitution or constitutional order, so it needs to be assessed. I'm saying again, they're the types if they happen to be, but I suppose they never will be, but we have to put it in the bill, like if someone wants to ask a type question - can they be murdered or robbed? And this. So of course it's not in accordance with constitutional order, so it's clear there, it just has to be there. And like I said, in that article. 5 Once again, we are very helpful, because we say that if a referendum is proposed by a citizen proposing a citizen, then, in turn, he will submit a proposal to hold a referendum for an assessment by the Constitutional Court if he supports the petition under Rule 5 (5) of the Constitutional Court. 4 at least 50,000 citizens of the Czech Republic who reached the date of signature 18 years. Yeah, so what we're saying here, I think that's a very helpful suggestion, too. And I put it there on purpose because, of course, so that we don't let the citizens collect 250,000 signatures, and then it turns out that the Constitutional Court will say that the question is not in accordance with constitutional order, so that would be wrong. So we put it in such a way that when 50,000 signatures are collected, it is clear that this question is of interest to quite a lot of people, that it will be judged by the Constitutional Court and, of course, it can continue to collect immediately, or it can continue anyway, but that it will be sure that the referendum will definitely take place. Otherwise, a motion to the Constitutional Court may be filed on the basis of this proposal within 12 months of the start of the collection of signatures under petitions. If a referendum is proposed by the Parliament of the Czech Republic, the President of the Senate shall submit a proposal to the Constitutional Court immediately after its approval by both chambers. The Constitutional Court's decision to oppose the proposal to hold a referendum with this Constitutional Act on a national referendum or the Act on the implementation of a national referendum pursuant to Art. 11 of this constitutional law, hinders the announcement of a referendum by the President of the Republic. I think it's perfectly logical, there's nothing to add to that. Just if it is unconstitutional, it will not be in accordance with the Constitution, so logically states it by the Constitutional Court, and then there can be no referendum, I think that is obvious. But this concerns, for example, the questions I was talking about. The deadline for the decision of the Constitutional Court was set at a maximum of 6 months after the application was lodged. This is precisely what I was talking about so that, perhaps, the Constitutional Court cannot stop the referendum, so there is a time limit for it to decide. On the subject of Article 6, which concerns our amendment to the Constitution, I have been talking about this here from the outset, so the President of the Republic shall declare a referendum within 30 days of the date on which the Constitutional Court's decision, which has expressed the compliance of the proposal to hold a referendum with this constitutional law, will be declared by law under Art. 1, became enforceable. [[11?]] Well, then, of course, we're also dealing with the preparation of the referendum here, which means it's going to go all right and comfortably on all sides. [[conformally?]] So to create the necessary space for proper preparation of referendums with this constitutional law and law under Art. 11 has become enforceable... In order to create the necessary time for proper preparation of the referendum, while ensuring that the referendum takes place within a reasonable period of time from its publication, we propose that the referendum be held at least 90 days and at the latest 180 days from the date on which it was declared by the President of the Republic. So at first, 90 days for those referendum organizers, those who organize referendums, those who have collected the signatures, to have three months to organize the campaign here, I do not want to say the word campaign, but to be able to inform citizens enough about those intentions, so that they can, for example, make an information campaign throughout the Republic, what the referendum will be about, and so on, and so on, so that there is sufficient time to make the referendum decision so that it can be as much as possible imprinted by the opinion of the citizens of the Czech Republic. So don't rush it completely, because then the very results could be to the dissatisfaction of petents or to the dissatisfaction of opponents and everyone. So even here, we're actually following this parameter to the opponents of the referendums who are making up different stories when they say that citizens are not competent and that people don't have information, and they're making up all kinds of substitute excuses -- those people who don't want a referendum, I mean, those politicians who don't want a referendum here, that is, the politicians of the Fialův government five-wheeler. That is why we have our proposal so written that we can also meet these arguments and these arguments, and that there is sufficient time for the information campaign, so that everyone knows what will be voted on, and whoever wants to be informed. The same situation, of course, is also in the election. That also, by the way, when I mention it, those opponents of the referendum, those politicians - I'm talking about politicians, those who don't want a referendum - that's what politicians call them, of course, the politicians of the five-calice government - so they tell you that citizens are not so competent. I've heard it during these discussions in the last term. That citizens are not competent to decide a question. Well, I've never heard more arrogance and a bigger, stupider expression. So politicians are happy with the elites, the ruling elite of the five-police, that when citizens go to the polls, they decide on electoral programs like twenty pages or thirty pages, every electoral program is just written, I don't know, ten, twenty pages, maybe even more. And politicians - once again I am there - when they want to be elected by those citizens themselves, they actually accept that the citizen has an overview of the electoral programmes of twenty-thirty pages, each electoral programme is twenty-thirty pages, I mean like the pages, and that the citizen actually has the information. I agree with that, yes, he has it, a citizen is competent, that's right. But when it comes to referendums, all of a sudden, the same politicians say that a citizen is not competent, while deciding on a much smaller amount of information, there is only one question to be decided, that is to say, one question, for example, from a twenty-page political party programme. So, in fact, the people, the politicians who oppose the referendum, are already directly contradicting each other in the way they engage in these arguments so that there is no referendum, they are contradicting each other because they say that the citizen is actually competent to decide on dozens of parties' agendas, but it is said that he is no longer competent to decide on one programming point. That's nonsense. It's exactly the opposite. A referendum decision is, from this point of view, easier for a citizen. Absolutely. So it would be good if you just didn't make fools of the citizens. Citizens are simply intelligent and could vote in a referendum and can make a good decision. That's what I think. [[17,00 hours]] And let's take a look at our proposal. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. 6 I would add that the article also remembers the case where the holding of a referendum within six months would overlap with the election of the President of the Republic, with the elections to the Chamber of Deputies, with the election of a third of the senators, with the elections to the European Parliament or with the elections to the representatives of the local authorities. For these cases, for reasons of economy, it is proposed that the referendum be held at the latest... later along with these elections. If more referendums are to be held, if the time limits allow, the President of the Republic declares referendums in such a way as to take place at the same time. Well, that's what I said. That's exactly the thing, that's exactly the argument, that the one who's saying is, in turn, purposefully saying that there's no referendum, so they're just saying purposefully, it's gonna be expensive, and I don't know what everything is. That is why we want the money to be saved, so that public spending is as low as possible, and that is exactly where we say that when it is possible, a referendum will be made on the same day as the elections. At the same time, here in Art. 6 we are writing, and I have already mentioned that it is possible to hold a referendum on the same subject at least three years after the date of the announcement of the result of the vote in the previous referendum. As of course, I think that makes sense, because if the referendum on the same question took place, it is hard to repeat it again in six months to the same question. That is exactly where we would probably not want to go, and instead we would record referendums to critics. It is simply necessary to make a proper referendum on the question, to give sufficient time for preparation and, of course, then the citizens will decide. And then again, over a certain period of time on the same question, we could make a referendum. Of course, if that question was different, there wouldn't be any restrictions. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 7 of course, we clearly define which persons are entitled to vote in a referendum. So I think it has logic and I think it is quite clear that we too want every citizen of the Czech Republic to have this right to vote in a referendum regardless of whether he lives in the Czech Republic or abroad, which reached the age of 18 at the latest on the day of the referendum. So let's move on, let's move on, because, of course, I'm far from finished. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 8 Whereas the referendum will decide on fundamental matters of the internal or foreign policy of the State with a national impact, we propose that the decision in the referendum be taken and binding within the meaning of Article 8 (2) of the Treaty. 9 if the majority of the votes voted in favour of the proposal, if at least 20 per cent of the citizens of the Czech Republic took part in the referendum at the same time. I've already made a broad comment. If it were up to me, of course, I wouldn't have put in a quorum, so was my proposal for a referendum law in the last parliamentary term and in the previous term. But you just don't want a referendum here, there's just the SPD itself, we're proposing a referendum here ourselves, the others don't want it, so we've been trying to at least accommodate it, so we're putting in some kind of minimum vote for participation to expand the scope for discussion with other parties, because, as I said, it's a constitutional law and we need 120 votes from 200 Members to vote on it. And we have 20. So, of course, if it was up to me, I wouldn't even put a quorum there, just like there was one national referendum so far, which was about joining the EU. But that's just the reality. Well, unfortunately. Unfortunately, the House has a composition that has most parties here that reject democracy. And of course it is, and I haven't said that yet, I haven't said that if this referendum goes on, of course, and if it turns out that less than 20 percent of the citizens of the Czech Republic participated in the referendum, then the decision taken in the referendum will not be binding, but will only have a consultative character. So, of course, that's just the way it is. But, as I say, the important thing is that we propose that if this referendum takes place and that people express themselves and meet the parameters so that it is a binding referendum. That's the point. We simply want a binding referendum, because, as I see it here in the House, five-calice politicians don't do anything about the citizens' opinion, they don't give a damn what the citizens think. And I think that's why the commitment is quite appropriate. So let's go to art. Nine, when I'm gonna take it apart a little bit more. We are clearly stating here that the decisions taken in the referendum are binding on all institutions and persons, including the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, and their amendment or cancellation is possible only on the basis of the referendum decisions. That's right. That's right. That's what I think is really right. The Government shall implement or ensure the implementation of the decision taken in a referendum under its responsibility. This is also the case where the referendum agrees to ratify or withdraw from the international treaty. In this case, Parliament's approval in such a referendum replaces that expressed. Well, now, of course, is the important moment I'm talking about today. Because Fialův's five-calice government approved a treaty for US military presence in the Czech Republic. And this afternoon, you want to discuss this treaty in the House today. And the SPD movement tells clear not to foreign bases and soldiers in our territory, while the Fialův government five-calice wants American soldiers and bases on our territory. So, of course, that is precisely what the SPD wants to vote on this issue in a referendum. I must say that I did not understand very much that I did not understand at all the statement of the YES movement in this regard, because President Schillerová said that most Members would vote in favour, that is a completely legitimate position, that is, as you will vote, but Radek Vondráček, chairman of the constitutional-legal committee, said on TV the day before yesterday that it should be a question of referendum. But your proposal for a referendum, which Radek Vondráček is currently working on, forbids voting on international treaties. [[Mrs Schiller responds from the point of view: He was talking about migration.]] He was talking about migration? [[Yes.]] About migration, about the migration pact. Oh, I'm sorry. But the migration pact is also an international matter. So in any case, it would be good if we voted together on the referendum bill and the pirát joined us. [[Reactions in the O.R.]] Actually, when they join, it's not enough. That's right, there's only four of them. Well, I'm sorry. Oh, no, I don't mean that in a bad way. I ended up here in the last term in three, so I definitely know how complicated the situation is, and I'm definitely not gonna make fun of somebody because that's what other people used to laugh about, but I didn't, because I experienced it myself, how complicated the policy is, but I shook myself off. I was in even smaller numbers, one more, and then we turned those three into 22. So that's it. I was actually losing it to the fact that even the opposition votes plus the pirát wouldn't be enough to declare the referendum bill here. Or at least get it through the first reading. That's what I'd say. You don't need a constitutional majority for that first reading, do you? I don't know. Or is it? I don't know now. [[17.10 hours]] So I just want to say that-- so that's the problem. With regard to this referendum, we are the only ones here who say that this treaty on the US military presence in the Czech Republic should be a referendum. We're the only ones here. We're the only ones here in Parliament. It's sad. To us that we are the only opposition here on this issue, we are the only ones who are saying clear not to foreign bases and soldiers on our territory, and we want a referendum on this. Of course, about the migration pact, about the EU's migration policy, we also want a referendum. That is clear, but I would have worn wood in the woods by now, because I have been explaining our proposal for a referendum here for over three hours or three hours, and I have already made it clear that this law also allows us to vote on these international treaties and on these issues. So it's obvious, I don't have to say that again, but it's pretty clear. Of course, by doing that article. 9 of our bill proposal gives us the binding nature, thus guaranteeing the real exercise of the will of the citizens of the Czech Republic, as it was shown in the referendum, without any time limit or limitation only by the electoral period. If the referendum adopted by the decision were only a temporary decision, this would ultimately result in the need to repeat the referendum and demonstrate the will of citizens in each parliamentary term. Any attempt to dull citizens of the Czech Republic in their active exercise of the right to share in state power is completely inadmissible. From our point of view, she's completely inadmissible. That is precisely because we in the SPD are promoting democracy, and we just want citizens to be actively involved in the share of governance, and the government coalition does not want it. The government coalition doesn't want it. So you just reject democracy. And it's really ridiculous, and I have to do it again a few times, because our voters are laughing at you for it, when the SPD, which enforces the referendum law and the direct choice of politicians, is what I'm going to get to, that's another law that we want to put forward, so that's a shift in democracy, and because the government's five-calice doesn't actually have arguments about it, so they say that the SPD is a threat to democracy when we want the referendum law. That's completely unbelievable! You're already getting so into your shoes, you're just turning it all over like this. That's totally unbelievable! And there's some pro-government media doing it, which is totally... But I won't comment on that anymore, because my opponent isn't the media, but my political opponent is the party politicians who have a different program, right? And that's what we focus on. That means, so this -- but it's really ridiculous, and I'm saying it about the second time, the third time, that the one who promotes democracy is labeled as a non-democracy, so that they actually cover up the fact that they don't really want a democracy. That's totally, that's really incredible where we got to 30 years after the Velvet Revolution. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the So here we say that, in the same case, a referendum may take place at least three years after the date of the announcement of the results of the vote in the previous referendum. This provision avoids, and here I think it has the logic, so it prevents that, if, for example, I give an example, citizens would decide in a referendum that they do not want the bases, and the Fialův Government will still want to enforce the bases here, which is why we put the decision in the referendum to change only by referendum, and, of course, when citizens have decided to vote on the same thing in three years, because I think that the referendum and the preparation are such a long process, and so the question will be serious, given both signing and participation, that, of course, the three years are completely optimal, and that someone, some politicians, cannot reverse it immediately. So at least three years seems appropriate in this regard. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. 11, which we are proposing there, so we make it clear that to implement the constitutional law on referendums, it is necessary to issue a law that regulates the method of verifying the correctness of signatures... Sorry, he'll adjust the method of verifying the accuracy of the data on the petition. And here's the signature, right? This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Furthermore, the details of the implementation and announcement of the referendum, as well as the judicial review of referendum cases, so that irregularities cannot occur in the interpretation and application of the Constitutional Act on referendums, and that the referendum can be implemented so that the rights of legitimate citizens are fulfilled and the result of the referendum vote has been established in a timely and flawless manner. And the procedures for carrying out the referendum will largely be the same as those for conducting the elections to the Parliament of the Czech Republic. That's what I've been implying. Of course, it is not from the point of view, and that is why we are putting it there, in fact, if, at the moment, the referendum is for publication, and within a period of six months, elections should be held, while the term of the elections is, so we simply propose that this be held at the time of the elections, so that citizens go to the ballots once and can participate in both the referendums and the elections. So that's what I think is right. Now let's take a look at that part of the other part of our constitutional amendment. Part two of the draft constitutional law presented by us contains a proposal to amend the Constitution of the Czech Republic, which extends the powers of the President of the Republic to declare a referendum and announce its outcome. It's uncontrasigned jurisdiction. The list of draft laws referred to in Article 4 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 shall be extended. 40 constitutions to be approved by the two chambers of Parliament. The list of bills is extended to include a draft law on the implementation of a national referendum, as it is by its nature an electoral law and governs a referendum with national application, thus equivalent to electoral laws. This amendment is also linked to the legislative technical amendment in Article 4 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. 10a Constitution consisting of replacing the word'referencedum' with 'national referendum'. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 40 will be approved only by the draft law on the implementation of the national referendum, while the draft laws governing the regional and local referendum will continue to be approved by the standard procedure under Art. Whereas: The two institutions, as they do not regulate a national referendum. Furthermore, the Constitutional Court's power to decide on the compliance of the proposal to hold a referendum with this constitutional law on a national referendum and the Act on the implementation of a national referendum pursuant to Art. 11 of this constitutional law. The Constitutional Court's decision to oppose the proposal to hold a referendum with this Constitutional Act on a national referendum or the Act on the implementation of a national referendum pursuant to Art. 11 of this constitutional law, hinders the announcement of a referendum by the President of the Republic. So, of course, here I presented in more detail our proposal for a referendum law. Again, I would like to stress that I propose - of course, I propose that we put this as the first item in today's House of Deputies meeting - it is paragraph 27, press 8. You see how we did it right away. Right after the election, we filed it - it's press 8. [[17.20 hours]] But here it is - you can see also at number 8 how long the Fialův Government has prevented us from discussing this referendum law. How long have you been stopping us? So now we have prints with just three digits, and this is an eight. And the entire time, the Fialův Coalition is defending the referendum law. You don't want it. Instead, in the time you've been here, you've already made other proposals, such as robbing three million pensioners of the promised valorisation, 14 billion you've taken from health insurance companies, and you've made the availability of health care worse, and so on, and so on. And that is, then, to politically control Czech TV, that is, to change the composition of the Czech Television councils so that it is on the side of the government's five-wheeler. So these are your suggestions. And we just think that instead of these proposals and instead of having American bases here, we need to, and we don't want that, so we just need to vote on proposals that bring something to the citizens. So I want to - I am suggesting here that this is the first point in today's House meeting, the referendum bill, right now, because for today, the government is proposing the approval of the US military presence agreement in the Czech Republic. And as I have said several times, the SPD movement is the only party in Parliament that says 'no' to foreign bases and troops in our territory. We don't want foreign bases here, foreign soldiers, and it's just... it should be a question of referendum. So I would like us to have this treaty on their American bases in the Czech Republic, so that we don't discuss it here at all, instead of discussing the bill on referendums and declaring a referendum on whether or not citizens want American bases here. But that's not what the Fialův government wants to do. And Secretary Černochová of the ODS. Because you don't want the citizens to be able to decide about it, about the foreign bases. It's unbelievable. It's really incredible arrogance, but unfortunately it is. That's right. It's just the way it is about us without us. And now we're fighting to make sure it's not about us without us. That means citizens without citizens. So this is clear. And I'd just like to add here that it's like... so, like, I'd leave it that way. Let's move on. So that's my first suggestion. But, of course, I have a lot of suggestions here, because, of course, we have some burning proposals here. So, next thing I'd like to say, I'd like to put the press on 12, paragraph 31, and I'd like to put that as item number 2 of this meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, it's a bill of the SPD, which we are workingly calling my house, my castle. And it's an amendment to the Penal Code. Well, why would I suggest that? Because it really seems to us in the SPD that this is just an important topic, because, as you know, and I was talking about it here last week, so criminality is skyrocketing under the Fialův Government. Crime is rising rapidly. Prime Minister Petr Fiala simply does not manage this country from the ODS, or is not able to manage the Czech Republic at all. Everything just goes down, everything goes down. This means monstrous inflation, overpriced energy prices, overpriced food, people go shopping in Poland and Germany, so sales are falling in retail in the Czech Republic. Since sales are falling logically, so income to the Treasury is also falling, from these things it could have been higher. You've just done it -- you've totally turned a spiral like that. You have turned such a spiral simply because of your incompetence and incompetence, so of course the Czech Republic will... He's going from ten to five with your government. But that's the economy I'm talking about. But now I want to talk about what I want to talk about, and of course I'm going to stop at it very much, of course, otherwise, it's that criminality has risen steeply under the Fialův Government. The number of crimes in the Czech Republic increased by 18 percent year on year. This means, last year, 2022, by 18 percent, I suspect about 18.2%, just by almost a fifth, 20 percent almost increased the number of criminal acts in the Czech Republic. That means the Fialův government is throwing out tens of billions on the one hand here, they're still dealing with something abroad and they're still dealing with it, they're still sending tens of billions to foreign countries and foreigners, and so on, but you don't give a damn about our own citizens. That means people are afraid to go home tonight, they're afraid of being robbed, robbed. And by one fifth, the number of crimes in the Czech Republic has almost increased. And the Fialův government doesn't do anything about it, the Prime Minister doesn't care, the Interior Minister Vít Rakušan for the STAN movement doesn't care either. From this point of view alone, he should be removed, of course, for signing the migration pact as well as the reform of migration policy. Because like either taking African and Arab migrants or paying half a million crowns, that's awful. That's awful. So, of course, that should end, but as a matter of course, the whole responsibility goes to the PM at ODS, right? Because he's the one who agreed to it, these things. After all, Vít Rakušan here told us, on a direct question last week, that he made several phone calls from the meeting of the Interior Ministers of the Member States with the Prime Minister. So it's just with full knowledge, of course, of the Fialův government. It's just treason on Czech citizens, it's treason. And here you are taking other irreversible steps, which simply, socially, economically and safely, destroy the Czech Republic. Well, why am I talking about this? So just to put it this way, it's like - that's not all, okay? Because 18 percent of the crime rate has increased, but their violent crimes have also increased sharply. By the way, the number of murders in the Czech Republic increased by 45 percent last year. You hear me well. The number of murders in the Czech Republic increased by 45 percent during the Fialův Government. Forty-five percent increase in murders. That's the Fialův government card. So this is a really crazy state of affairs that is here in the Czech Republic as Minister of the Interior of Vít Rakušan of the STAN movement. And most importantly, the government coalition tapes the tram to Ukrainian flags in Prague. Like you have time for that, but to do something for the citizens, and there's crime going on here, crime is rising, so you don't give a damn about it. Well, in this context, I'm suggesting that we put that print 12 as point two. It is the law of the SPD, when we propose strengthening the principle of necessary defence in the case - in short, so that people can defend themselves with impunity if they are attacked. But I'll explain what kind of cases this is, that's it - my house, my castle. So we propose strengthening the principle of necessary defence in cases where the health or life of a person or other persons present in a dwelling is at risk, to which a foreign person tries to trespass. The necessary defence should be, according to our proposal, if the defence is directed towards a person who has trespassed through violence or threats of imminent violence, or if he overcomes an obstacle which is intended to prevent entry, provided that such action - of course, is prevented from entering, if such action may create a legitimate fear of endangering the life or health of his or any other person present. So we anchor the principle of my house, my castle. That means, in short, when someone... I don't know, why are you defending this law? Because I remember that in the pre-last term, this law of ours was rejected here in the House. He's been rejected. It got there, if I remember correctly, until the third reading. He's been rejected. It's normally like a real setup for all decent citizens. [[17.30 hours]] That means we're making it clear what the terms are. That means when someone pops a window, breaks a window, breaks a lock, breaks a door and so forth, so it's obvious that he's overcome an obstacle by force, and that if you just get up in your sleep all of a sudden and now you have someone at home and gets through your door, then in our opinion, the person who lives there should be in the right place. Why would a sleepy person who sleeps there with his wife and child just think in the dark whether he's in the right or not? In my opinion, it is adequate to pull out a weapon and simply defend yourself against the one who entered your home violently. I don't know what's wrong with that. I don't know what's wrong with that. After all, a priori has nothing to do with that person, and not like today, you have to think about whether it's a reasonable defense. How are you supposed to think about being sleepy at night? This isn't even a matter of whether the assailant has a weapon in his hand. How do you sleep at night to see if he's a karate champion or if he's got a knife in his hand? Whoever's a champion of martial arts, nothing against martial arts, on the contrary, but I'm just telling you that the person who violently enters your home and finds him there must be the person who's there automatically in law. I don't know why anyone should think about it. That's like the case of the mugging, when it was, two years ago, at Pilsen's, when a parolee just walked in on the outskirts of the village, he entered the residence, where a retired man slept with his wife, pulled a gun and killed him, normally shot him in the stomach. Now, they've been dragging this gentleman around for months, looking for reasonable defenses. At night! If you remember the case, then when it was saved, it turns out that the parolee was a murderer, that he was in prison for murder, and then he was released after serving his sentence. So normally the killer comes into your home at night, the master pulls out a legally held gun, shoots him. I think he did the right thing. I am fully convinced that what does a man have to do there, who is forced into your home at night on the edge of the village, and what is he supposed to do there, his wife sleeps there at night, what is he supposed to do there? According to the existing laws, he probably should have asked him if he could reasonably defend himself or at night examine what the man had in his hand. And he didn't even know he was a parolee and that he was a released killer. It's just unbelievable what's going on here today. And we're just saying that we need to make a novel and we need to make the law my house, my castle. We're proposing the third term as the SPD, even the third term, the first term was not yet in the SPD, but I also proposed that. So I'm just patiently suggesting it here, and I don't understand why the other parties don't want it. I just don't get it. I fully apply to this bill because, as I say, when someone overcomes an obstacle by force and enters my house or my apartment, that person simply has nothing to do there, the intruder. He's not supposed to be there at all. There's no way to doubt for a second that the person who lives there is in the right. That's just the way it is. We think, not only that our bill is of course timely in the long run, but we think that from that point of view too, which is why I propose it again and again, I have, of course, proposed it here several times, but given that under the Fialův Government, criminality in the Czech Republic is rising sharply, and the Purple Government cannot handle crime, and even though citizens pay taxes and have the right to safety, they have the right to be guaranteed by the State basic security, so at least let the Purple Government be able to do so, because it is still dedicated to Ukraine and Ukrajinec, and I don't know, by buying some weapons in America overpriced, and anything, so you just bailed on the citizens, so at least let them get the legal certainty that if they are attacked at home, they can defend themselves without fearing punishment. And there can't be any proportionality here. Once again, we are clearly writing here when someone illegally enters a foreign home using violence or threats of imminent violence, or if he overcomes an obstacle which is intended to prevent entry, if such action may cause legitimate fear of life-threatening to the defender. This is, of course, the moment - I've heard some talk again, what if someone flips the ball, some kid, into the garden and goes for the ball? Well, let's not put it in there, and let's just put the first things in there. But it's not, either, because that's where the life threat would be. It's like today, isn't it? That way, you could argue in any situation of your life. It's not like that. Our law doesn't say that if someone kicks the ball in the garden, someone can hurt the baby. That's not what we're saying. That's exactly the opposite. I'd like no one here to argue that way. That's just not true. What can I say? The Fialův Government has already taken a stand on this proposal. I will just explain to citizens that when any bill is filed, it has to be passed by the government, and the government gives a positive or negative opinion. So, of course, the Fialův Government has taken a disagreeable position on our proposal, because the Fialův Government does not want to protect the safety of its citizens. You don't give a shit. You don't care. You just don't want to protect the safety of citizens. That is why the Fialův Government has taken a negative position on our bill. You don't want the safety of citizens. You're not able to protect the citizens on your own, which is why crime is increasing, because it's in ruins here, in this state, because of your government. Unfortunately, no one's organizing this clearly, you have a different political assignment. Minister Rakušan would rather put up the Ukrainian flag than devote himself to the security of citizens, as he devotes time to completely different things, time and energy, well, and you have taken a negative stand. So, of course, it's a problem. So I would like to say once again that as item number two, I propose to include the amendment to the Penal Code today. I've got, like, 30 drafts left here, so now I'm just picking. I only got to the other one. Since you know if I have the right information, we're on the first day of the meeting, so I don't even have to report in 30 minutes to propose a change of meeting, then I'm gonna take another health break. And we have to suggest that, of course, because you see that my proposals are very serious and that they are very topical. I was just gonna say, I had some questions here, so I'm gonna be here for a while, and then I know that my colleagues have some suggestions, too, so that they can get some room for colleagues. I'll come back, of course. That's how I'd see the horizon right now. Now I'd like to propose another change. That's our constitution novel, because - no, sorry, I just missed it. We have a proposal here - print 5, point 24. And what's going on here is because the Fialův government is borrowing more and more people because of their incompetent politics. There are clear statistics here that people just don't have money, they don't have any savings left, so they take loans and then they go into executions. Logically. After all, I already talked about it last year that the Fialův government had it, and that was statistics, and I quote that here, it was in the middle of last year that the number of people entering executions was rising sharply under the Fialův government. And that, of course, is a problem. [[17.40 hours]] The Fialův Government doesn't give a damn. You don't give a shit. You are spending tens of billions on Ukraine and Ukrajinec who are still taking advantage of the benefits, as we have learned from the reports. And I'm glad that Prima broadcasts it, because I've been here several times, and I've been instantly blamed, once again, the five-caliber MPs have lied that I'm supposed to be pro-Russian and pro-putin. I'm not pro-Russian or pro-Plutinian at all, of course. I'm prosciutto. But so you guys are distracting here when I was talking about this, and when I said you'd like to pay attention to the Czech citizens, that millions of people here are getting into big financial trouble. Well, that's just the way it is. That's right. But for you, the interests of Brussels, Berlin, Kiev, Washington are first. But the interests of Czech citizens, you don't give a shit about them. So we have a proposal here to nationalize the bailiffs, in short. Because I think the situation is unbearable. It's press five point 24, and I'd like to put it as point three, because clearly, there's no talk with the Fialův Government at all. So we'd like to nationalize the executors. And the aim of our proposal is to abolish the law on bailiffs and return the executions back to the state. In our opinion, the activity of private executors is accompanied by a number of negative phenomena. Their material involvement in the execution results led, on the one hand, to an increase in the efficiency of recovery, but above all to the detriment of the position of debtors. It would therefore be appropriate to return to previous arrangements before 2001 and to find an effective way of motivating civil servants to quickly pursue executions that do not produce similar negative effects, as was the case in the case of judicial executors. And I have to say here that the government of Andrej Babiš, when we presented this in the last parliamentary term, did not agree with the proposal. The government of Andrej Babiš has given a dissenting opinion on the nationalisation of executors. But we just think that... we promote the nationalisation of executors. So it's another crucial difference between the YES movement and us. But that's like legitimate. We're just promoting the nationalisation of executors, and that's just the way it is. So I'd like to ask you, as point 3, to include a bill that would sanction the nationalisation of executors. So that's the draft number three I'd like to assign. Well, of course, then let's look at our other proposals that we want to put forward, because really, don't be mad at me, but the US base in the Czech Republic versus what I'm going to say now, for example, that we want to increase the contribution to the care of severely disabled people in the first and second levels of addiction, to the care of other people, of course, because those citizens can't help themselves, those severely disabled citizens, so it's just an important law from our point of view. Well, I have to say that-- so that's point 4 that I'm proposing to assign. We simply want an increase in the contribution to care for severely disabled people to be discussed here. And this is also up to date, because last week the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura from ODS expressed himself, and this is really a total spitting in the face of all disabled people, that the government will not find money and will not have money and will not find money to increase the contribution to care for severely disabled citizens. He just said it straight out. Minister Jurečka agrees, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs for KDU-ČSL. I would like to point out that the care allowance has not increased since 2016. The contribution did not increase from 2016 onwards, and when we calculated the increase in inflation from 2016 to this year, it totaled 40 percent. So the care allowance didn't go up for seven years, inflation plus 40 percent if you just add it up. Well, the disabled, the care allowance is 800 crowns today. And for that, the disabled person will not buy any services. Now, take who's involved. This is the first, second degree of addiction to helping others, such as disabled people in wheelchairs, and the disabled person needs to translate the evening into a bed from the wheelchair. And he just can't translate himself. And now he has 800 crowns for that service. He won't buy any service for that. Social services. That means, that's really incredibly ruthless by the Fialův Government, and even so Minister Stanjura of the ODS said last week that there was simply no money to increase the care allowance. This means that there are Ukrajinec who are still taking advantage of the benefits here, young, skilled Ukrajinec lying there somewhere in the hostel, as we saw in the report on Prima, taking advantage of the benefits instead of going to fight in Ukraine, when they would like to do something. But they don't want anything, they don't want it. And for people who can't help themselves, you don't have the money. So we are simply saying clearly that the amount of the allowance for light or moderate dependence is absolutely insufficient and cannot simply ensure the amount of the contribution to the acquisition of adequate qualified care or the acquisition of aids to these citizens. Therefore, we propose to increase the contribution of people under 18 years of age to CZK 4 950 per month instead of the current CZK 3,300 and in the second degree of dependence to CZK 9,900 instead of the current CZK 6,600. Physically disabled over 18 years of age would receive 2 640 crowns in the first stage of dependence based on our design and 6 600 crowns per month. Now these contributions are 880 crowns, imagine, as I said, and 4,400 crowns. So we just want it anyway... Otherwise, the government took a neutral position on the proposal. Well, that really was an opinion when we presented it sometime a year ago. Now the government has clearly taken a quite negative view of this. So, of course, this is point number four that I'm presenting here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-000-000.u5	I'll cut you off. Please, what's his name, again, point 4?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-000-000.u6	It's press 9, and it's an MP amendment to the Social Services Act.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-000-000.u7	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-000-000.u8	So that's point four.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-000-000.u9	And please, when would you like to include him again?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-000-000.u10	Like a fourth point. [[President: As a fourth point.]] Yes, that's like point number four, I say I want it as point four. So this is our next proposal. And then I'm going to take a look here because we have some other suggestions here. [[looks into its materials]] So, I'm gonna save the next draft for the next phase. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-000-000.u11	Thank you. And at this point, President Schillerová has been given priority rights, but I have information that the deserts - is that correct? Then let me keep...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-000-000.u12	Well, I'd rather technically ask for a five-minute recess at the STAN club meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-000-000.u13	Five minutes? [[Ambassador Cogan's coming in.]] Yes, well, I'm declaring a break until 17.54 hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-000-000.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, let me continue. And please, Prime Minister Excellent. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-000-000.u15	Thank you for the floor. Dear Vice-President, thank you for your helpfulness to your opponents. Given that this debate on the agenda of this meeting is still a bit twitchy and there is also a point to be discussed, this international treaty, so please be given to vote that today we will also vote after 19th, 21st or 24th hour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-000-000.u16	Thank you. I have begun and I have called the Member, the Members of Parliament. So we're going to vote on continuing the negotiations after 19th, 21st and 24th hours. With replacement card number 15, Mr. Chairman Vondráček. And I saw that there was an interest in the check-out? [[Knocking on the desks.]] I've checked you out, and again, please, let's sign in. [[Noise in the hall.]] We will vote on continuing today after 19th, 21st and 24th hours on the basis of a proposal from the President of the Excellent. Initiating vote. I ask, who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 2, registered 163, for was 90, against 22. Result: accepted. We can therefore continue and with priority rights is signed by President Schillerová, then President Fiala and then President Babiš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-000-000.u17	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Since we are still in the phase before the programme is approved, I, as the former Minister of Finance, propose to include a new item entitled Return of Transparency of the Czech Budget Policy. And I'd like to put him on a tight list today. Now let me justify it. Ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow it will be a week since the government approved the preliminary draft state budget for next year. This morning, I again looked into the electronic library of the legislative process, or eKLEP, to find out only hard to believe that even after a week the Ministry of Finance did not upload this material into the system and did not provide it to Parliament, or to other central government bodies and individual budget chapters, which, without it, are unable to fulfil their legal obligations relating to the preparation of the budget for the next year. They are in vain concerned about the reason why the preparation of the law of the year is under strict secrecy, for which reason all existing customs and rules of transparency are violated. And not only transparency, because this unprecedented secrecy also prevents the budgetary process itself. This reminds me of the recent, rather outrageous interview of the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura for Czech Radio, which dealt with the 54 billion item in the category of savings in subsidies, spectacularly announced at today's legendary press conference on the tax package at Straka Academy. I quote from the interview: Mr Minister, can you give a concrete example of a subsidy that you will simply cancel? - I can, but I won't. - That's too bad. - I don't think it's a shame, the minister answered. So much tasting of the style as the head of the ODS state register imagines the way to communicate with taxpayers about the amount that - for the image - represents the entire annual budget of the Ministry of Industry or the Ministry of Agriculture. Where did the Finance Minister get 54 billion crowns? He won't. He could say, but he won't, he won't. Now, as we can see, Minister Stanjura will probably not even show us the draft budget for next year, the law of the year. Dear Lady of the absent Secretary, sir - one - Minister, is this really okay for you? [[Turning to the government bench]] Are you sure you know the binding numbers of the expenses of your chapters for next year so that the administrators of your chapters can break them down in detail in accordance with the Budgetary Rules Act into the Treasury system? Are you sure that the information on the amount of deficit that the Prime Minister says is expected to move between CZK 235 billion and CZK 270 billion is sufficient for planning the budget for the key agendas of your departments? Their operating expenses? Their investments? European co-financing? You'll also plan and distribute them to the Treasury at intervals from - to? Really? Do you think this way a functional budget can be created for next year? Or is it gonna be even more of an asshole than this year's budget, whose year-round deficit was exceeded in the first half of June? Representatives of the Pirate Party - I see a lady in there - I turn to you too. Your big theme, if my memory reaches, has always been a clicking budget. You fought so hard for him, you'll have no budget in the end, let alone a clicking one. You're saying that everything that isn't classified is supposed to be public. And what's classified, that's what the law says. And I agree with you. But do you really feel that the state budget is a secret matter? Prime Minister - absent, Minister for Legislation - present, through... I don't really have to... Government Legislative Council, I'm turning to you. By the end of June, according to the law, the various chapters must receive binding proposals for their budgets. [[18.00 hours]] There are three working days left to do that. Do you appeal sufficiently to the Finance Minister, who, according to the President of the Committee on Budgets, has probably lost consciousness of what is happening around him in order to at least fulfil his basic legal obligation? Ladies and gentlemen, let me now express my sincere doubt that there is any approved material for the budget at all, and I am led by simple mathematics. In fact, the original material of 31 May counted with revenue from the state budget of CZK 1 trillion 899 billion and expenses of CZK 2 trillion 139 billion, and thus with a deficit of CZK 235 billion. At the same time, this material called for a reduction of CZK 21 billion in salaries, a delay in valorisation of payments for state insured persons worth CZK 14 billion or a reduction in allocation to science and research in the range of CZK 4 billion. Now, please pay attention. Last week, government-approved material, which is so far covered by secrecy, according to the Ministry of Finance, works with exactly the same revenue, the exact same expenditure and the exact same deficit as the material from the end of May. Unlike him, however, according to government members, there is no reduction in the salary of 21 billion, nor delaying the valorisation of payments for state insured persons for 14 billion, and perhaps even - this is still discussed allegedly - the reduction of funds for science and research for 4 billion crowns. On the expenditure side, therefore, 40 billion crowns of expenditure were added without any effect on the total number of planned expenditures. That, ladies and gentlemen, shows signs of a miracle. I confess that I am really very curious about the individual unknowns in this equation, and I will tell you that this is either an operation so admirable that our finance minister should be nominated immediately for the Swedish National Bank Award for the development of economic science, or there is no miraculous equation, and our entire next year's budget, the budget for next year, is just one big inequality with so many unknowns that putting it transparently into eKLEP would mean to nominate Zbyněk Stanjura as the sixth minister of the Purple Government, who will be moved to a five-calition bench. I don't understand how this government wants to convince anyone of any savings. This year's budget is in full swing. Economists argue whether they end up with a $350 deficit or $400 billion deficit. Only Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura is following the possibility that he might still end up with the planned deficit of 295 billion. But he's gonna have to jump off a horse heading down the wall in no time. And I'm asking, to what number is this 150-billion-dollar consolidation going on? To an unrealistic plan that won't be followed? This would, of course, mean that the above consolidation will not be respected either. What's the point of your entire package if you don't even know what you're saving up against and what outcome do you want to save up for? And another question. Next year's budget. If his deficit is not eliminated by the Prime Minister, 270 billion, does that mean that this year's budget, which you want to save CZK 98 billion from with the approved package, will end with a deficit of CZK 368 billion and will become the second worst result in our country's history right after the year 2021? Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sure you'll recognize these are extremely serious questions. And I cannot imagine enough time for any serious debate in the Chamber of Deputies on laws in the impact of hundreds of millions or units of billions, unless the Ministry of Finance fits the basic figures in the range of dozens of billions. Until the fiasco of this year's budget is adjusted, where Zbyněk Stanjura does not sit 150 billion crowns as a result of tricks and fraud until this budget is implemented, it is not possible to have a serious debate on the budget for next year. Even as we can see, it is not possible to draw up and publish the next year's budget. And, of course, it is no longer possible to plan and implement any serious consolidation strategy, because each of them is dependent on chaos, untrustworthyness and failure. For all these reasons, I ask for the inclusion of an extraordinary item entitled Return to Transparency of the Czech Budget Policy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-000-000.u18	Thank you. And please, at what point do we place it? [[I said after the fixed points.]] Tightly placed. Okay, okay, thank you. The next one was signed up by Chairman Fiala, but he was apologizing now, so the other one is President Babiš. In the meantime, I'll read the apology. Mrs Adámková from 15.45 to 18.30 for work reasons, Mrs Dražilová from 19 for work reasons, Mr Feranec from 19 for family reasons, Mr Kobza from 17.30 to 20 for work reasons, Vice-President Kovářová from 15 for work reasons, Mrs Mr Mr Mračková Vildumetzová from 17.35 for family reasons, Mrs Pastuchová from 17.30 for work reasons, Mr Síla from 17.30 for health reasons, Mr Svoboda from 18 to 22 for work reasons, Mr Vondráček from 18 for work reasons, Minister Lipavský from 17 for work reasons. And then I cancel the apology that was with Mr Vojtek until he was 18. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-000-000.u19	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I have a few points. So I would start with the point that concerns the Minister, and it is not the treaty. It's about the gigafactory, it's about the airport of Lína. I'm not coming back to see who rented that airport for 50 years. I don't think we got anything for it. Well, the airport is certified by NATO, it's a great airport. Now that Volkswagen has announced that he's probably gonna bail on us because he's going to America and he's gonna get an incentive of 235 billion, I've noticed here... Besides, Volkswagen tells us that actually Skoda Auto will only produce internal combustion engines, so I don't feel good about it. I don't know if the government's calm, so I wouldn't be calm so they wouldn't take the škodovka away from us after all. Now I've read that Mr. Očko, who is probably the head of CzechInvest, says that the gigafactory at Pilsen will also be without Volkswagen and the Czech Republic has other candidates. Please, in France, Macron already has two projects. One for EUR 2 billion, and in Dunkerk he is supposed to build a new gigafactory for EUR 5.7 billion, and he will receive a subsidy - which the Prime Minister does not like, the subsidies, but this was invented by Brusel - EUR 1.5 billion. So I have a bad feeling about this, Madam Secretary. And you know why? Because somebody, and he's more like your coalition partner, would want to tear down the track. I think there's some business there. Plus, I read that there are even environmental burdens. Before I became Minister of Finance, they were doing business there the most. So I'd really like it if the government doesn't show clear paper that somebody's really gonna invest there... But I think it's a stupid idea to do it in Plzeň because we have full employment - or what should I say? Anyone who wants to work can. We can talk about what Nexen did in Žatec, what impact it had on the region, our businessmen, industrialists and so on. Yes, there was a time of incentive, the tapes were cut and so forth. But maybe there's another way of thinking about it. So I would suggest a point to save this airport for the military and not try it with the gigafactors, so that we don't live to see someone smash the concrete in there and do environmental loads, and then no one comes in there, and the location's gonna suck. So that's my suggestion to discuss the gigafactory point in Plzeň. Next thing. What I want to say about the treaty and what Mr Okamura actually lectured here is that the ANO movement does not have a problem with the referendum on this matter. We don't. I'm sure we'll support the state bailiffs. I always said the state was supposed to do insourcing, that it was supposed to do it as a company. Care allowance is not a problem. As for the contract, please, no bases, there won't be any soldiers here. It's a trivial contract. By the way, Romania's had that contract since 2005, so 18 years old. Bulgaria since 2006. So anyone can verify that there will be no bases or soldiers here. It's a contract. Hungary has the treaty, Viktor Orbán, Europe's greatest evil, as the mainstream says. So I think it's clear. I think the great danger to us is the illegal migration, and I'm gonna get to that at the very end. The next point I would like to propose is a new point, and that is Prime Minister Petr Fiala's appearance at the European Council on the migration pact, as the first point in this meeting. I'm so glad that V4 met, and it's so interesting to read those shows. What does Mr. Morawiecki say? Today we are joined by the topic of migration. Even terrorist organisations cannot be supported by organisations engaged in human smuggling. Some NGOs have been exposed in this way. We do not agree with any quotas and numbers of migrants to be accepted. The EU must focus on external protection. We talked about climate policy, and so on. Well, that's very interesting. Orbán has also stepped up there and says that migration has a solution, but the EU does not want to implement that. That, of course, is the solution. I will get to this as the last point, where, in essence, Minister Rakušan manipulates those mandates and keeps changing his position. I think it's an absolute disaster that happened. So Prime Minister Fiala said: Refugee quotas are not a solution, they do not work, they cannot. We must strengthen cooperation, the country of origin, improve return policy and so on. So, of course, that's the position I know the officials are writing. But I don't think you realize what you've done, that it's actually the invitation. I'll get back to that at the next point. So my proposal is that, in my opinion, the Prime Minister should say well now, the Rakušan has screwed up, and I will speak at the European Council and support Poland. What does the Polák say, our ally? He says he wants a national referendum on it. Polák says what happened is against the sovereignty of that state. Now that you've screwed up the Presidency, please, and now you've screwed up the quotas, the Prime Minister has the opportunity to do as I did with the Chovanc. The chovanec agreed to the quotas, and when he came back, we were against it. They even sued us afterwards, yes, and we won it. We stopped it. So the Prime Minister should say that Rakušan simply screwed up and that he will perform at the European Council and say that the Czech Republic does not agree. Because I don't know what the V4 was all about. V4 had a clear strategy, and on June 29, 2018, at 4:00 a.m., we killed it. We have not allowed this legislation by any unelected commissioners. They didn't. And now it's just a problem. So that's the next point. Then I wanted to, because you really are failing in Europe, and every visit to Europe is hell. You don't understand what sovereignty is, what is that place where Prime Minister Fiala sits next to Macron, and now I don't know the name of the new Prime Minister of Sweden. Magdalena doesn't sit there anymore, who was always happy about how many of these sharia centers she's got. Well, today he has no-go zones and perhaps the biggest crime in Europe. So now I have another point that is absolutely crucial to the future and sovereignty of the Czech Republic. It's essential. I'm very worried about it, because if I'm listening to your new minister, who's totally fucked up in there, why is he even there? The Presidency has already ended in the EU. Like you couldn't handle him. Hell fell out of it - the euro, emissions, internal combustion engines, you ruined everything. Now, let's go with the quotas. [[18.20 hours]] Now the greatest danger - and actually this is your minister, who, in arrogance, can compete with the one from STAN, with Mr. Síkela. So what's going on? France and Germany are acting in confidence on how to circumvent agreements to abolish the unanimity of votes in the EU. Yes? And here they confirm it, it is an interview in Euroactiv, where Francouzka Boone Boone and Němka Anna Lührmann say that Germany and France are considering, in particular, a transition from unanimity to qualified majority voting in an area such as foreign policy or taxes, so that the EU becomes more flexible or accepts new members. According to them, the fact that legal change would already be within the framework of existing contracts is because of the so-called carry-over clause. This provision makes it possible to amend legislative procedures without a formal amendment to EU treaties. This is an opportunity that we want to explore in order to maintain our strength as a global player in the EU's common foreign and security policy, declared Lührmannová to Activ and showed our confidence that we will be able to achieve this. Well, here, Boone Boone's French counterpart stressed that such a development was an important step towards greater integration, efficiency. No. An important step towards that - you're already there today in numbers and then we'd be there by now, the others who come after you don't even have to go there. Pushing change through the resistance of small countries is supposed to happen gradually. If the transition to qualified majority voting is first carried out in a limited and very pragmatic way to show that the 27 is capable of reform. France and Germany are promoting a thorough EU reform before adopting other candidates, such as those in the Balkans or Ukraine. Well, that's great. I remember terribly, my friend Zoran Zaev, the Prime Minister of North Macedonia, who woke up this morning thinking about Europe, sleeping in the evening, thinking about Europe, defending the border, unschengenically, those illegal migrants and smugglers came from Greece. He changed the title, he changed the constitution, everything, and that Merkelová didn't fulfill his promise to start talking to him, maybe 15, 20 years of being able to happen... So what's going on here? I understand that Germany, which contributes EUR 53 billion to the budget, or France, is probably pissing off some of them and not so much, but some others, about the fact that we have the right to talk about it, too, and to promote something like that. So, of course, this is absolutely insane. If this were to happen, it is actually the transfer of the sovereignty of the Czech Republic to Brussels! Just as your new minister, who is completely useless, wants to do for the EU, Mr Dvořák. Well, what does Berlin and Paris say now? He claims that the opposition of the smaller Member States to reform is no longer so radical. In a common position, 13 Member States opposed any radical modification of the EU's founding treaties last year. A qualified majority vote in the EU Council means the necessary approval of 15 out of 27 members, who must also represent at least 65 percent of the total population of the EU. [[who]] These countries, including the Czech Republic - and I do not know that, but for us it was - Hungary and Poland are just afraid that they will not be able to influence practically anything when they change the vote and will always be able to overvote them as they do in other areas of the European legislative process. But, of course, this has not happened here, because you are even reporting that you have prepared that crazy migration agreement within the Presidency. The invitation! The invitation of those illegal migrants and smugglers to Europe! So according to both state clerks, the consensus has changed since last year. The idea that we need to prepare the EU for enlargement is increasingly promoted among states, argues Lührmannová, the Euroactiv server. But it does not state why Berlin and Paris are trying to bypass reform by a detour rather than by changing the EU's founding treaties. They have even made a working group composed of experts on EU institutional reforms. In addition, at the beginning of May, the Group of Friends for qualified majority voting under the Common Foreign and Security Policy began its activities. This is crucial. This is crucial. I had a discussion when one Prime Minister yelled at another Prime Minister: We should never have taken you to the EU! And he yelled at him, "You get five billion euros of dividends every year! That's the rhetoric! Is Mr. Rakušan talking about solidarity? Yeah, we've always been solidarity. We've always been sympathetic. But no one can tell us that we're getting, yes, the subsidies that they made up, but at the same time, 280 billion dividends will flow here every year. It's always been the debate. So please, everything you've done with Brussels, you've screwed up. The Presidency, now the migration. And I wouldn't want to live to see your government raise its hand to abolish unanimity. When Mr. Bartoš - and that is the representative of the current that unfortunately controls you. Those pirát run you, Madam Secretary, it's hell - he had the preferences and he was supposed to be Prime Minister, so he went to Brussels and took pictures of him being the new Prime Minister, and there he said - poor Tajani (?) He lived - that he would just hand it over. I mean, that's it, this extreme left, these are all trained people in nonprofits to break up Europe to give everything to Brussels so that we can be here in numbers. And I don't want it. I don't want it! And this, if you did, would be a complete disaster. And I'm threatening it because we don't know what you're gonna do. You're not saying anything, you're always putting us in front of a done deal. And, yes, I understand that somebody is upset by the unanimity, yes, but if it weren't for unanimity, we didn't stop quotas 2018, so we didn't fight taxonomy, so we didn't put the core word to the end and the crust, and we wouldn't have won extra 42 billion! Because if you don't sleep for four nights and five days and you have the guts and they're all pissed off, those presidents, the premieres, you can win in the end. And that's our sovereign position. We're not in numbers here. We're not some kind of Brussels pendant, although, of course, they like to influence it through money and say, you have to listen, or we won't give you the money. So the point would be to say that I would like the government to confirm clearly that it will never agree to abolish the unanimity of the vote in the European Union. Well, that's another point. And now I'd like to end up with the migration. That really is an incredible thing. The Polák make it clear: we are losing part of our sovereignty! Once we can't decide who lives with us, it's simply a loss of sovereignty. With this decision, Europe opens the door to smuggling organized groups. And it's actually Merkelová's first invitation. Because if you say publicly that we accept at least 30,000 illegal migrants organized by smugglers a year, then you simply invited them. You invited them. Why has the number of illegal migrants increased now and 1,500 came to Lampedusa in one week? There were hundreds of people drowned in that sea! Who's responsible for this? Who? So I'm shocked. And, of course, the Minister is still changing his mind. He told us that he basically had the same mandate, and of course it wasn't true at all. Mandatory solidarity is oxymoron. Oxymoron. This is a new word that I have learned, or use of words that are mutually exclusive. It's about the same bullshit as the bigger half. It is, isn't it? Same bullshit as the bigger half. [[With laughter. MEPs are applauding.]] What is compulsory solidarity? We are solidarity, we have accepted 500,000 Ukrajinec here. Voluntarily! Without being called from Brussels. By the way, when Lukašenko manipulated the elections in Belarus, I called Merkelová with Morawiecký. No one has to drive us from Brussels. [[18.30 hours]] So it's nonsense and, of course, it's a big problem. It's a big problem. And I don't understand if Minister Rakušan doesn't understand that his partners... I don't know why the V4 at Home Secretary level doesn't work. Mr. Rakušan said it wasn't a problem, he lets the border guard with Slovakia, the migrants come. Yes, they will come to us, they will come to us without being assigned to us or dictated to us and so on. So what I'm saying is, we don't realize what's going on here. And I would recommend to Minister Rakušan that he read an interesting interview with Hans-Georg Maassen, former director of the Federal Office for the Protection of the Constitution in Germany. It came out in Echo. This gentleman, who was high up and who, of course, now, because he says his opinions, as he says, do not like them, claims that refugee policy in Europe is not primarily aimed at protecting and supporting people in need, but rather at promoting a certain ideology that seeks to transform society. Yes. And she stresses that in 2015, when Chancellor Angela Merkelová opened the borders for a large number of migrants and refugees, that was a decision that had a profound impact on the whole of Europe. - And I've already talked about it here. - According to Maassen, this decision was based on an ideological approach and did not reflect conservative values that should be represented by its party to the CDU. Maassen also talks about the importance of national sovereignty and respect for different views and approaches to migration in different European countries. It points out that some countries have a different view of migration and want to preserve their national identity and values. But I think that's what we'd like to keep our values, too, but someone outside is talking to us. Maassen says: Our Greens act as missionaries, they do not want Germany to be crazy, but that Hungary and the Czech Republic and other states go crazy as we are. - He speaks for the Němec. And here he quotes Orbán as hearing him say something actually quite modest. He says: I do not criticize the German Government and Berlin, I do not criticize Brussels, I just demand that we live in the right way for Hungary. No? We should decide how we want to live here and who will live here. Of course, ecosocialism cannot tolerate such a thing. Many citizens see these parties as very similar, especially in the area of migration and climate policy. This dissatisfaction leads some people no longer to vote because they do not see a real alternative that represents their values and interests. And we're surprised AfD's 20 percent in Germany today? Well, we're not surprised. No wonder in Berlin there are 60 percent of Muslims in grade school, and the students want the Němec to wear their clothes according to their traditions. Yeah, well, I don't know if that scares you. Yeah, somebody's gonna argue that we're not in any danger. Well, I don't know, I think, overall, what's happening in Europe concerns us. According to Maassen, many people in Germany are frustrated by the current political situation and do not see a significant difference between the main political parties such as CDU and the Greens. - Madam Secretary, what does this remind me of? [[to Minister Cernochova]] What does that remind me of? Conservative ODS and Prime Minister wrote a beautiful book, and I took it to Budapest, an amazing ODS Bible. Well, you're the pirát now. I mean, the Prime Minister said at the Pirates convention that you and Bartoš from Antifa were on one wave, 2016 he was walking around screaming that we wanted it here. No? Well, yes, it says here actually, I said it in advance. It's like us, ODS and Pirates, same band. At the same time, Maassen stresses that some people are concerned about supporting parties such as AfD, which are considered too radical. This opens up an opportunity for the emergence of a new political force that could address those who feel neglected by existing political parties. So, friends, with us, a clear state-building immigration party that opposes green madness and the destruction of traditional values and statehood - yes, that is us, the YES movement, although commentators keep writing and constantly saying what we are and whether we are conservative and such and shallow, yes, all that crap. I recommend it, and I have this speech here, but I don't want to keep you here again, I can read you the speech in Budapest, it's pro-European! I'm worried about Europe. I'm worried about where this Europe is going! We are part of Europe. I want to live in Europe, I want to live in the Czech Republic. I want to fight for Europe. And it is not that we must submit to those lunatics in the European Parliament and that lunatic Timmermans, the commissioner who thanked you for that Presidency. Well, that's the worst that can be. That's the kiss of death. So the question of migration. Maassen points out the importance of critically examining the policy of migration asylum law in the European Union. According to him, it is necessary to ask whether the proposed measures are really effective in reducing migration flows to Europe. It stresses that many of these measures are political painting rather than a real solution. Anyway, the agreement agreed by the Czech Republic is only an official invitation to other migrants to Europe. [[Unintelligible.]] 30,000 minimum is a quota. And how many migrants came to Europe last year? 846,000. Well, it's really a problem, and I don't understand the situation right now. Here I will read you an article: Germany has exceeded the capacity to receive migrants, so there is increasing violence. Germany is full and its ability to receive other immigrants is decreasing. There's no money, no accommodation. - That's official monitoring. - Last year alone, the Land of Germany accepted 218 000 asylum seekers, with the cost of supporting them reaching EUR 30 billion. And this year in the first months, the interest is 80 percent higher than last year. Representatives of 16 federal states urge the government in Berlin to deal with the situation, which, in turn, pushes the rest of Europe - well, that is - to relieve it from part of the migrants under the asylum agreement. But enthusiasm isn't great. On paper there are only a few tightenings, but their effect will probably be limited, in an interview for Die Welt's asylum law expert Daniel Tin (?). No one is satisfied in this excited atmosphere. Immigrants usually expect better accommodation than crowded centers or flats, and many German residents feel that the government in Berlin is more devoted to immigrants than their worries. The number of incoming immigrants is simply too large, says the Saxon Prime Minister for Christian Democrats Michael Kretschmer. We can't integrate, schools and kindergartens are overloaded and flats are missing. These numbers need to be reduced, adding that if the problem is not resolved, Germany is going to collapse. Many Němec feel an immigration wave of danger, so there are increasing attacks on asylum facilities. According to the Federal Ministry of Interior, the number of attacks in this first quarter has doubled compared to last year. Neue Osnabrücker Zeitung quoted a German investigator who says most of the attacks have right-wing extremist backgrounds. As a rule, it is arson and battery. According to Clara Büngerová's left-wing politician, everything begins with Germany's slogans full and ends with racism and violence in the streets. Yes, so in this situation - and I will get to that, because here I have a part of what happened in Bohemia in New Year's Eve in Karlovy Vary. And he was an immigrant who came from Germany. So if Mr. Rakušan thinks he's supposed to have an exception somewhere, but we haven't seen her come here, you're in a big mistake. A big mistake. [[18.40 hours]] So here's another headline: German communities can't handle the rush of refugees, Merkelová's commitment is collapsing. Yes? Here are the attacks. Please, I've been to that border twice. Again, it's organized illegal migration, it's a crime. I was the only Prime Minister on Frontex in Warsaw, except for Polish, who has it around the corner. And there you see, Frontex has these satellites and they help defend the Schengen or non-Schengen border, where they look at those smugglers' ships that smuggle oil, diesel, cigarettes and people. Guys! And the basis where we don't understand each other with Mr. Rakušan or the Prime Minister who claims there's a need to register. No. Those ships can't sail! They can't sail! If they don't sail, no one will come. I repeat, Ellis Island. America. Everyone. And we had the program. So how does it work? Egypt's holding it. Erdogan got 3 billion euros to hold it. Syria instead of the world's politicians and powers solving the problem in Syria. It's not. I mean, people know that Syria was a fantastic country. Marshallův's plan, all European companies will heal there because those people will come home, they will live normally. And another one. Libya. I was at a conference on Libya in Palermo. Sophia Operation, it is basically a group of actually soldiers of all NATO member states, there is also Austria there, they are in Rome. Sophie surgery. How was Sofie's surgery? That was the fight against illegal migrants. No, against illegal smugglers. Which one's... They're paying them! They pay thousands of euros. So these people aren't running away from the war like Ukrajinec, they're coming here because someone promised them a better future. And that's the difference. And that's where we don't really understand each other. And Minister Rakušan doesn't understand what happened. So it's a huge problem. Plus, you guys didn't even talk about the deal, so you tried to hide it from the public. And I'm just saying again, the migration pact is another invitation for smugglers and migrants. And it's an attack on our sovereignty again. And unmanaged migration is eating up Western Europe now. This is all happening at a time when Sweden changed its mind. Sebastian Kurz welcomed 2015 and then changed his mind. And I'm going to show you something, Madam Secretary, here's some interesting material, and it says here that since the fall of the Berlin Wall, it's built 1,800 kilometers of walls and fences. [[shows]] And they're all building walls. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the new or old-fashioned Greek prime minister, I know him well, he's a businessman, he won the election because he's gonna build a fence, a 200-mile fence. Here are the fences. Here. 2015 fence in Greece. [[He's showing the map.]] 2012 and 2014 Bulgaria fence with Turkey. Slovenia fence 2015. Hungary fence 2015. Rakousko fence. Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, 2018 and 2021. Poland fence. Norway fence. First walls before 2000 defugee crisis, these are all the blue ones. So there's fences everywhere. And since I've always said... Why did I say that Europe should deal with Schengen, that we should take everyone to Europe? Obelix and Obelix Village - a villa? That I'm defending it at sea. I don't have to build that fence. But those ships aren't supposed to sail. That's what it was about. And there neither the Prime Minister nor the Minister understand what's going on. Because when they're invited, and they're invited, and everyone's got cell phones, they already know. Why did she go up like that? Now I'm gonna blow those ships. Everything's on the move. She came here last year... Where is it? [[He's looking for backgrounds.]] That's 844,000. Yes? And there might be a million coming. So the invitation... And it's the quota. It's the quota, it's 30,000. And, of course, I'm about to talk about the exception I don't know where it exists, but it's been meaningless from the beginning. So fences. Everyone's building fences. It's nice to see here, the red ones, okay? [[He's pointing.]] At the same time, they're invited. Unbelievable! 1,300 migrants arrived on the Italian Lampedusa in the last day. Well, here it is. In 2022, 884 600 illegal migrants came to the European Union with a request for asylum. The most came from Syria - 132 600. Germany - 217 000 - took the most migrants. But Germany is full. Well, where do you think they're going? 71 percent were men, 54 percent were men between 18 and 34 years old. Here's the graph. [[He's pointing.]] I think it's pretty clear. But it has never happened before that the European Union essentially gave the invitation. Now, to the Minister. The minister here told us that he had the same mandate as our government. And the Minister lies awfully. Here in Anti-Babiš's Diary N says it was a framework position of the Government of 2020. I don't understand how he can lie so much when it's actually easy to trace. And I have the position of Government 2020 here. It's from October 20, 2020. Hamáček, Minister of the Interior. And what do they say in that position? In this position it is said: It can be summed up that the proposal at this point is considered by the Czech Republic to be very problematic and contradictory with the long-term position. During the discussion, the Czech Republic will endeavour to eliminate the obligation to participate in the redistribution of persons by the form of relocation or under the responsibility of sponsoring return, yes? And so on. So Minister Rakušan is not telling the truth. So after he told us that he had a mandate, after that - I don't know if he was, I wasn't listening, or I didn't hear Mr. Benešík's speech, if he was on the EU committee. But at the end of the day, he gave his mandate to Mrs. Vildumetzová Mračková when they were at Moravka's, who, of course, and everyone, the media is running the Rakušanův thesis. No? So it's clear where the Czech TV stands, we already know that. And what does it say? I welcome the fact that the text of the regulation on asylum management and migration reflects a long-term position not only in the Czech Republic. But that's the manipulation. It's the manipulation! Yes. I'll read you what you have in the program, i.e. Pirstan. Pirstan wants to protect the external borders. Yes, that's where we agree. And preventing illegal migration, not quotas. Yeah, great. And it says here: In our approach to migration, we are promoting responsible, safe and humane solutions without the compulsory redistribution of so-called quotas. Solidarity is supposed to be voluntary! It's written here, it's a program called STAN and Pirates. So you're not doing the program again, because solidarity is mandatory. That is, of course, nonsense. [[Unintelligible]] together migration. We insist that each country of the European Union be free to choose its own migration policy and access to asylum seekers. We reject mandatory quotas and promote solutions outside the EU's borders. That's what I'm saying! I don't know. I mean, it's obvious when they're dealing with it outside the EU, that ship can't come. These ships are organizing, and so did Morawiecki, the criminal nonprofits that abuse those unfortunate people. [[18.50 hours]] So it's not true that Mr. Rakušan has the same position. I don't understand how he can say that. Here's an article from September 24, 2020. Coincidentally, it's the same anti-Babish journal N, and the headline is Babiš. If we don't receive refugees, we can't return them. Solidarity cannot be mandatory. The essence of the new draft EU migration policy is pointless. So how can an Rakušan call me that he has the same position when I refused? I refused. And still in 2021. So it's nonsense. I don't understand how the Minister can afford to blame this on us and make excuses for us. Unfortunately, he's lying. His mandate was completely different. It had nothing to do with us. We never wanted and never agreed to this invitation. By the way, in July 2017, we approved a contribution to support the integrated border control of Libya amounting to a million euros and in January 2018, we were already a government with no confidence, we gave 8.75 million to the second phase of the same project. And do you know what it was about, Madam Secretary? This was about us, the V4 that had the power to work, and we agreed to buy the Libyan Coast Guard four ships. Each country from the V4 gave EUR 8.75 million. Those ships were supposed to be called the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, Poland and should have been given the Libyan guards to fight those smugglers. I'm telling you again, it's a crime! Crime! It's organized crime. Six billion euros are being made by smugglers on these people! They make money everywhere. I was on the Hungarian border, and those migrants are armed. Armed! Every cell phone, knives, various assault weapons, and they have money. And on the other hand, someone sits in a car with a German or Austrian license plate, a smuggler, and then he takes them to Germany or something. By the way, it was very spicy when our cops told me they had a smuggler arrested there, and the policeman said, that was a neighbor from our village. So our parents are in on it, too. It's organized crime. It's a crime. So we did this, and now Mr. Rakušan mixes it up and says yes, we have this in common. It's in your schedule. But you don't do it, the program! But accepting this is an invitation, it's a problem, and we fundamentally disagree. And I can read to you here: Integration of migrants in Sweden has failed, the Prime Minister admitted. Violence has increased. Yes, Magdalena Anderson. I sat next to her for a long time. And did I tell her, Magdalena, do you do well to take so many migrants? Well, we didn't. We didn't. So that's a big problem, and I don't understand that Mr. Rakušan isn't telling the truth. He just didn't make it. But the worst part is that you, under the Presidency, had the ideal situation to ask for money, didn't you? Madam Secretary, I'll tell you how much money Greece has received since 2015. Do you know how much? Greece received three billion and 400 million euros. In Brussels circles, they always said: Řecko can best milk a Brussels cow. Do you remember how many olive trees they had? More than the whole world maybe, for which they took subsidies. Three whole four billion euros! And I asked, what about us? And Mr. Rakušan said something. But I don't think there's anything yet that you basically haven't solved the money, and it's a mistake. The Prime Minister said somewhere that you would ask. But why haven't you asked before? Why didn't you ask before? I'm gonna find out what that Morawiecki guy at the press conference said. Of course, he criticized it. It does not erase because he knows what it is about in Brussels and at the European Council. Wait, I found it here somewhere. [[He's looking in the background.]] Here. So one more time. Greece has received EUR 3.4 billion for illegal migration. Italy received EUR 1.1 billion, Germany received EUR 840 million. And what does Morawiecki say? Orbán didn't get a crown, not even the euro, because it's clear there, he built it. If he hadn't built it, we had full Prague here 2015 and the whole Moravia. But I can still get to Břeclav. And here, what does Mr Morawiecki say, the Polish Prime Minister? He says: In Poland, we experienced a migration wave that was created artificially by Russia and Belarus. Yes. And so are we. So are we. We did not receive almost any assistance from refugees from Ukraine, and now it is proposed that the sum of EUR 20,000 for not accepting a migrant is EUR 20 000. We received EUR 100 for a migrant. Unbelievable! They've got a hundred euros! And why not 20,000 if it's solidarity, right? So the Polák got almost nothing, and you didn't get anything either. So, Madam Secretary, I know the pirát are running you, but I'd like to tell you, imagine that we're going to send those - like it's not going to happen, now I'm risking that, of course, the pro-government media are going to rip something out again, that we would send the 500,000 Ukrajinec to Europe, and they would say, "No, no. And we would say, so give us the 20,000 euros, wouldn't you? Do you know how much money that is? I counted it ten times. I didn't want to believe that number: 238 billion! Two hundred thirty-eight billion! There! So we didn't get anything, you had the Presidency. The Prime Minister just has to be aggressive. He has to fight. I know it's not him, he's more of a monotonous guy, and he's afraid to say something, but he has to fight for our interests. So what does Mr. Rakušan tell us? There's an exception. I haven't seen her. And he's actually telling us that you've satisfied yourself that we can't get the Ukrainians and the euro. Why? It's incredible how the media works, isn't it? Now the lady on Sunday. When I was in the debate with the Prime Minister, I asked him how much Ukraine cost. But it's nothing against Ukraine. The YES movement gave $10 million, and I paid myself a lot of money to count it. So I learned from the media that there are 38,5 billion on the Ukrajinec, issued by the state. You told me those guns were about 10 billion. And you know why I ask that? I'm asking because your government is still making excuses for Ukraine. And that covid and that Ukraine can be counted precisely to take that into account in the budget. So now we know that Ukraine cost us, I don't know, 40 for those refugees, 10 guns, that's 50. And our covid 2020? The fall in GDP is 5.5 %, 82 billion gone, and 370 have been released. So we gave 450 billion, our budget, if someone compares it, and you gave some 50, but with inflation, you got 200. So when there's always this debate about you making excuses for Ukraine, how it affected our budget, it's obviously nonsense. And I understand the Prime Minister doesn't want to say how much, what impact it is. So I would expect you to really just go to Brussels and want the money, because that unanimity is very important. Yes, it may seem to somebody that there's some kind of blackmail or I don't know what, but I just don't see the reason if these countries like Greece are getting tens of billions, and Italy and Germany, why don't we get? [[19.00 hours]] We volunteered for solidarity. Not necessarily solidarity. And that Morawiecki is right. And I think that the Prime Minister should support him at the European Council, and it is extremely important. So once again, Mr. Rakušan is not telling the truth. We had a different position. We always said smugglers with those migrants shouldn't sail, those ships shouldn't sail, that it's a risk, and that's where we differ. It may seem ridiculous to someone that it's not important, but I think it's important. And if Mr. Rakušan says it's none of our business, then I'm telling you it's our business. All we have here is an article, 18. 6th of this year: In the south of Moravia police only in the first week of June captured as many refugees as during the whole of May. And he's worried that migrants are going to grow with the coming summer. More refugees are faced by other European countries. Yes, so they're here. And it doesn't matter what Brusel decided, does it? Here's another article: Persecution in Břeclav. There were ten people in the car, the smuggler got handcuffs. Well, then... Next: End of the road. Twenty-four migrants were squeezed in the van. The cops caught them at the Javorníků. Yes, they're going to Germany, but when Germany is full, what happens soon? Where will they go if it doesn't stop? And now? On 20 June 2023: The Supreme Court in Prague today confirmed an exceptional sentence for two murders and rapes to Esmat Shirzad, the Afghánec. 22 years in prison. He also expelled him from the Czech Republic indefinitely. Well, Mr. Shirzad, he's a migrant who got asylum in Germany in 2015, so he went to Karlovy Vary on New Year's Silvestr. In the first hours of the new year, according to the verdict, early in the morning, he attacked a 33-year-old woman who didn't want to have sex with him. The woman stabbed didn't die because of the help of the doctors. Then Shirzad attacked a 19-year-old woman, pushed her to the fence and forced her to intercourse with a knife. Here you have June 4, 2020: For the rape of a 16-year-old girl in Litoměřick, Afričan got two years. Very little. And I don't want to be here. Sorry, we have to put it this way, we have our culture, we have our way of life, and we are a sovereign country. And you just can't give in to what those crazy people in Brussels who have other ideas... I don't even want to read any articles here where someone, some lunatic, says that in 2100, the original people of Europe won't even be here anymore. No, I really don't. So it's a real disaster. Mr. Rakušan didn't... understand. Believe me, I've put a lot of energy into this. Since 2015, I've spent so much time on this, I've visited everything because - yes, I'm a detailist. And unfortunately, the point here is clearly that the European Council should reverse it. You normally allowed this legislation under the Presidency. That should never have happened. The European Council for us - we didn't allow it, but when Brusel saw that you were on their hands, that... I mean, Vondra himself, your MP, said that Timmermans had cheated on you. Well, I don't know if you've been double-crossed here again or if it's a strategy that the pirát have Rakušan it to the Austrians. I don't understand. I don't understand. It's hell. It's a big problem. And we simply want the Prime Minister to reverse it and actually get the information about what the big risk is. So I just want to, and that's the last point, to suggest that this migration pact, which threatens our security, be canceled and that the Czech Republic cancels its position, and the entire government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-000-000.u20	Thank you. I've replaced the meeting's management. Only assurance about the name of the point - the abolition of the migration pact of the Czech Republic? Just to be clear, how is... the position of the Czech Republic...? [[Call off the microphone.]] Thank you. And next up, President Radim Fiala is here with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-000-000.u21	Thank you, thank you for the floor. I'm also applying for a change in the program item. And as the first item in my programme, Madam President, I have a proposal to withdraw from the European Union's migration pact, which he has signed or approved by the Minister of the Interior. So, in my speech on, say, the first-instance approval of changes to migration and asylum policy at European Union level, I will, as I do here very often, stick to facts, specific information, citations and a clear description of the various contexts of this matter. And I'm gonna do it because I've seen a couple of times on TV, Mr. Home Secretary boobing over how he made a great deal. And here I am saying that this great agreement on migration, the new migration pact for which he raised his hand, will mean tens of thousands, in the future tens of thousands of immigrants from different Muslim countries to the Czech Republic. I'm not saying it's gonna be tomorrow or next year, but it's gonna be that way in the finals, and no deal-- it even says in the migration pact that it's a relocation of at least 30,000 people from what country. I also stress that this is not about any theoretical floscule and non-binding political proclamations, but about binding and enforceable EU legislation, about changing key asylum and migration legislation at European Union level, and, of course, for all its Member States. And this change in asylum migration policy comes because those states understand that they can't do it anymore, different cities - we can't do it. As Mrs Merkelová said wir schaffen das, we can handle it. You're not gonna make it. And we told you you wouldn't make it. Some German cities no longer have funds because they need them for so many social benefits, so much investment for immigrants from Muslim countries that they do not have. And the German government, after many, many years, ended up in a state budget deficit. Cities just end up with state budget deficits. It is both a huge security risk and, of course, a huge, huge financial burden. Last week's agreement is de facto an entry into the negotiating position for the future binding regulation on asylum and migration management, which Member States will be obliged to apply to their legislation, regulations and practices directly without any changes or exceptions. So once again, I'm going to say the phrase: they're going to have to apply it. So there's no way we can get out of this, we'll pay the maximum for the migrants, but that, we'll get to that. This Agreement will also form the basis for the negotiations of the Presidency of the Council of the European Union with the European Parliament and for the subsequent final vote on the definitive form of those Union binding standards. What's not much to talk about? This future asylum management regulation is intended to introduce common asylum procedures throughout the European Union, which each Member State will have to implement and comply with its rules in cases where migrants apply for international protection. To date, this issue is a matter of high competence for the Member States and their national asylum law. And that's what we wanted, so that we could decide for ourselves who would live with us and under what conditions. And that's right. And that's the only viable and acceptable option that's going to change right now. Individual procedural measures are also being simplified, for example, to reduce the duration of asylum procedures to six months, which is also counterproductive and in a number of cases this will not allow sufficient examination of the applicant's past and whether it provides relevant and true data in itself. A lot of these applicants come in with no ID, just a cell phone, so it's really hard to verify who they are. [[19.10 hours]] The important information is that this pre-negotiated regulation on asylum management and migration should replace the existing Dublin regulation, the so-called Dublin Agreement, which regulates asylum and migration issues on the territory of the European Union today and is relatively balanced with certain reservations. The second thing is that some Member States do not respect them in the long run, but that is another matter, that is to be dealt with by the competent judicial authorities, such as the Court of Justice of the European Union and so on, but it certainly is not a reason for their rapid change, which, moreover, is clearly a change to worse. For example, the Dublin agreements say that a migrant to the European Union must seek asylum in the so-called first safe country to enter within the Union, and that the duty in this asylum procedure is to be decided by this very one country and no one else. This principle is now to be completely demolished, among other things. What should the proposed new solidarity mechanism contain last week? Mandatory solidarity! I have never heard that solidarity is mandatory. Solidarity should be voluntary. And unfortunately, we're going to have to borrow on it, which is a truly Orwellian term: compulsory solidarity. Remember that. Several things, including the so-called relocation, which is basically just a synonym for moving a migrant to another European Union Member State on the basis of numerical quotas. So it's not exactly the end of the migration quotas. It's a fact that it's mandatory... As Minister Rakušan calls us. It is a fact that mandatory, i.e. ordered, dictated solidarity can also be shown differently, for example, a financial contribution of nearly half a million crowns per migrant relocated, by deploying personnel or measures aimed at building some unspecified capacity. So if we don't have the money or refuse our capacity or our personnel deployment, we're gonna have to accept migrants. And the quotas here, according to the text of the proposal, will indeed, Minister Austrian, in the form of the existence of a minimum annual number of transfers from Member States in which most persons join the European Union, i.e. the so-called states at the Union's external border, to those Member States that are less exposed to such arrivals, which is the Czech Republic. Because we fought back. We fought back for years, we did everything we could to avoid Muslim immigrants here. So by defending ourselves and having almost no one here, there is a time when the European Union will order us to do so or we will have to pay nicely after some time. This figure, this quota is set at 30,000 migrants per year, while the minimum annual amount for these financial contributions is set at EUR 20 000 per transfer, both of which may be increased if necessary. By the way, appalled is also the fact that these financial contributions will not be directed towards countries affected by the most illegal immigration, but to a specially created fund that will be managed by the European Commission. So what's going to happen to the money? Are they going to apply to various support for further immigration? What's going to happen to them? None of us know that. The proposal also includes the date of compensation by taking responsibility as a second step solidarity measure for the benefit of the Member States benefiting from this solidarity. This means that a contributing Member State, such as the Czech Republic, will assume responsibility for examining a request for asylum by persons who, under normal natural circumstances and under the current legal condition, would be subject to transfer to the responsible Member State under the said Dublin agreements, which is the one they entered first. Attention, this system will become mandatory if the transfer promises do not reach 60 per cent of the total needs identified by the Council of the European Union for a given year or reach the number of regulations, i.e. 30 000. That means 30,000 is the minimum. So we don't have that much choice, and we don't have that much choice to pay a half-million-dollar extortion fee for one illegal migrant to free us from the obligation to handle asylum applications in the Czech Republic for the money of Czech taxpayers for people who have come to another country and are not seeking asylum from us. Our police, intelligence and courts may have little work and a lot of money, so Minister Rakušan gave them this interesting job. The advocates of this new migration agreement say that this is a fair, correct and balanced text that preserves our choice. But what choice? Yes, here I must agree, she's mandatory solidarity, metaphorically speaking, the choice, that is, of some sort of choice between a death by hanging, shooting or in an electric chair. That means you can choose from all the wrong solutions. So much for the content of the agreement, which is clearly disadvantageous and harmful to our country. Now to its further connection, or to the important context of our support for this agreement, to the vote of Minister Rakušan for this agreement. As has already been said, the Czech Republic supported this agreement in the person of Minister Rakušan, who did not have the mandate of the Committee on European Affairs of the Chamber of Deputies and the Chamber of Deputies as a whole and, above all, did not have the slightest mandate from Czech citizens to do so, as the only State of the Visegrad Four. Hungary and Poland opposed and Slovakia abstained. So Mr. Rakušan raises his hand and says, "Yeah, come on, we're ready for mandatory solidarity." Yes, even Slovakia, although it is now temporarily in the power of the liberal, quite progressive civil-president government, did not actively vote for this agreement. It is, therefore, certainly from our side a betrayal of the joint action and a strategy for the cooperation of the Visegrad Four countries, which is our high national interest and the basis for any imaginable resistance, i.e. resistance, to the crazy binding legislative measures of the European Commission and of the European Union, whether they relate to Green Deal or anything else. The current Czech government is gradually and purposefully breaking this key form of our international political cooperation, which, in my view, is a fundamental mistake, whether from a pragmatic point of view, since if a proposal within the Council of Ministers of the European Union votes against a precisely defined number of states, they can create a so-called blocking minority and prevent the adoption of such a proposal. Or also from a long-term strategic point of view, because the Visegrad Four partners, after being betrayed several times by the current Czech government, will consider whether they will support us in the institutions of the European Union with their vote, and we will need that in the future. Well, I don't think he's gonna back up. It is a harmful and short-sighted policy by the government of Petr Fiala. Slovak Interior Minister Ivan Šimko, who abstained in the vote on the agreement, stated, among other things, that some of its provisions are difficult to accept and politically impossible for Slovakia, even after the text was modified. Polish Interior Minister Bartosz Grodecki declared to the agreement that Poland refused to pay fines for not bringing migrants into Europe in bulk. This is a very capidative and precise summary of the nature of the new EU migration pact. [[19.20 hours]] Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán even said that the European Union wants to force migrants into its country through a new adjustment of asylum policy. Brusel is abusing powers. They want to place migrants in Hungary by force. This is unacceptable. They want to force Hungary into a country of migrants, said Prime Minister Orbán through his spokesperson Zoltán Kovács. And one more vote from Poland, from Prime Minister Morawiecký himself. As long as the Government of Rights and Justice is in power, we will not allow anyone to impose any migration quotas, refugee quotas from Africa, the Middle East, arab, Muslims and God knows who else, declared the Polish Prime Minister. This makes me feel that perhaps the Polish Prime Minister and the Hungarian Prime Minister have read a different agreement, a different migration pact than our Minister of the Interior. Because they say it's wrong, that they're quotas, that they just can't agree with something like that. But our Home Secretary said that this is a great thing and that, of course, there are many, many advantages for the Czech Republic, which of course is not true. And yes, in this agreement, as I just discussed, the idea and rule of quotas for migrants actually exist, although in a different form than in 2015. And we've been there a couple of times. If the European Union does not pass something in those states and knows that it is disgusting and that those states will not vote for it, it will hide it there completely under some other - most positive - breath and says: that is great. It's not great. It is now a quota for current asylum applications in a given country, after which illegal migrants may be transferred to another Member State, or those other Member States will pay for them. So speaking in connection with Mr Rakušan's vote on this migration quota agreement is completely substantive, appropriate and legitimate. Or does anyone present want to accuse the Polish Prime Minister of lying? Let us not allow people's smugglers to dictate the conditions of the European Union. That is what the Polish Prime Minister also said, and I am signing this completely. Because the European Union, the European Commission and the governments of their Western states, led by Germany, have completely resigned from fighting the causes of illegal migration to Europe and are fighting, even dubiously and incorrectly, only with its symptoms and tragic consequences. In connection with the vote of our Minister of Interior on the partners of the Visegrad Four, I mentioned the so-called blocking minority within the institutions of the European Union. What is it, then? This is the number of votes needed to block any proposal in the relevant sectional Council of Ministers of the European Union, which finally approves binding Union legislation. The form of this blocking minority can be internally flexible and must always meet two basic conditions. The blocking minority must consist of at least four Member States of the European Union which, at the same time, represent more than 35 percent of the total population of the European Union. So it really depends on every voice, in this case, on the position of each Member State. That is why it is as crucial as the Czech Republic will vote. In addition to Poland, Hungary, which were strictly opposed, Slovakia, Lithuania, Malta and Bulgaria, which also abstained, did not vote in favour of the proposal for new migration regulations. And in the final vote, the conditions for blocking the standard may be even more favourable, because, in some Member States, elections will take place after which anti-immigration parties can enter the governments of these countries, and elsewhere, current governments can change their minds under pressure from the opposition or from the public. If the blocking minority were not composed only because the Czech Republic had not joined it, it would have been a complete tragedy that would have permanently damaged us on the European scene and, above all, would have damaged the Czech state and its citizens of the present, but also future generations. Colleagues and colleagues, I will conclude by commenting on why, for us, the SPD movement, the vote of Minister Austrian and the entire government on the migration asylum agreement, the so-called migration pact, not only content, but also politically and in principle, is unacceptable. Ladies and gentlemen of the five-calice every time we don't like any of their bills or any of their executive measures, and that's practically a day, they say that's what the voters have decided, we have a mandate, we have a five-calice. Wait till you win the election and then change it. Yes, to some extent it's true. We, for example, have also said to Minister Jurečka in our mutual negotiations on pension reform, which parts will be cancelled after we have government responsibility. But this migration regulation of the European Union is a completely different coffee and a completely different case. Colleagues, if he passes once, none of us will ever change that. It's just gonna be here with us forever. This is not a one-time vote. This is a commitment, as it were, to life imprisonment for the next, unfortunately, even for future generations. By the way, something similar applies to Minister Černochová, signed by the Czech-American Defence Agreement. Although there is a long-term commitment "only" for ten years, it still goes far beyond the horizon for two additional parliamentary periods and the terms of office of at least two other governments that will come after you. You don't have the authority to make such commitments. They weren't part of your electoral programs. They have not been consulted with the opposition. They have not been consulted with the citizens. And, by the way, it would be no harm in both cases to consult the Constitutional Court, since it is undoubtedly a significant restriction on our state sovereignty and there may also be other conflicts with the Czech Constitution. In these circumstances, nothing like a fundamental change in the European Union's migration and asylum policy with extensive negative effects on the Czech Republic should, in our view, be entitled to decide any Czech government, not only yours, without the prior expression of Czech citizens in the form of a general national binding referendum. But I understand that if these governments rule, no such referendum will ever be accepted because you could not take instructions from different foreign, say, institutions such as the European Union or other powers. That means there's no reason here, and that's what I'm saying for your government to make decisions about something that you and your partners in Brussels and Washington need to decide. dáma and gentlemen, the government of Petr Fiala has absolutely no right to put Czech citizens at risk of receiving illegal migrants, whose negative to brutal effects are well-known from Western and Southern Europe, nor to deepen drastic state debt by continuing to pay for illegal migrants from other countries. We just can't do it. Figuratively speaking, you have no right to test on our citizens and on our country the truthfulness of the legendary Italian poet Dante, who sounds like "the journey to paradise begins in hell." If this change in EU migration policy is finally approved and put into practice by your actions, this is also a clear reason for the immediate departure of the Czech Republic from the European Union. And to do that, we need a referendum law. The final statement to the migration pact is that if the SPD is once in the government, and I hope that in two years, in two and a half years, it will be part of the government's responsibility, one of the first things that this government will do is to withdraw from this migration pact. [[19.30 hours]] So on, because, Madam President, I would still like to include a point called the Energy Price Discussion, because energy prices are, of course, the biggest driver of inflation, and instead of fighting inflation for example, this government is fighting with pensioners, it is taking money away from them because they are protected by a law that protects them against inflation. And this government decided to take money from people because it would have to valorize their pensions. I think it's wrong. And let's say something about energy prices, because energy prices are the main driver of inflation, and I'm skeptical, and I'm afraid that at least the next winter we're going to face relatively high inflation, and let's say what we think the government is, let's discuss what we believe the government could have done differently with regard to energy prices and what it didn't do. To talk about government aid to people affected by rising energy prices, I must start from describing the causes of these prices, with the fact that astronomical increase in energy commodity prices linked to the series of failures of their suppliers and, above all, with their overwhelming negative impact on Czech citizens, households and companies, in the SPD movement, we consider the most clearly significant socio-economic problem of the Czech Republic and citizens. Please note that the rise in energy prices is the cause. The government gives social benefits to those who don't finance it, the government says it will help those people, but the government only solves the consequences. There is a need to address the cause and, of course, inflation is the cause. And we've been drawing attention to this for a long time. But back to the causes of dramatically rising energy prices. Virtually all of them are associated with our membership of the European Union, or with some of its aspects, and with our government's unwillingness to defy it, to show at least a little political courage and to hit the table and say - this is not the way, the European Union. No one's ever done it, and as we said before, the only one in Visegrad Square, the Home Secretary, shut his heels and said that the migration pact was actually okay. This includes, above all, our participation in the European Union's single energy market, our participation in a senseless and speculative system of trading in so-called emission allowances, namely the European ETS emissions trading system, and the approval of the previous and current Czech government with a crazy plan to reduce emissions and liquidate traditional energy sources called Green Deal or if you want the Green Agreement. The current situation of high electricity, gas and energy prices therefore has several sources. These include the decommissioning of nuclear and coal energy sources without equivalent compensation, since wind and photovoltaic sources from the nature of the matter are not their full replacement. Moreover, in certain annual climate periods, their performance must be largely replaced by gas power plants, which leads to growth in natural gas consumption and, according to the law of supply and demand, to a significant increase in its price. So Germany started shutting down nuclear and coal power plants in Ukraine before the crisis, creating a lack of energy on the market, and when you have something lacking, the price simply increases. And it doesn't matter if it's energy or if it's potatoes. Just if there's something lacking, it means that demand exceeds supply, a simple basic economic law, the price is rising. In the countries of the European Union, including the Czech Republic, the further source of energy price growth is astronomical growth in the price of so-called emission allowances, which, in addition to the claimed means of pressure to reduce emissions, became mainly an instrument for investment and massive financial speculation. That's right, emission allowances have little to do with the environment today, almost nothing. These are securities that are bought by US senior funds, pension funds that are also bought by other institutions, financial institutions, to secure their investments. And once again, by pushing out coal sources of energy production, these allowances stimulate growth in consumption and gas prices, with another problem here - the increase in emission allowances prices increases not only the price of electricity produced from coal, but also, of course, from gas. The price of emission allowances in the European Union is now moving, or was moving some time ago, below EUR 100 per tonne of CO2, which, according to EU forecasts, was to be around EUR 26 in 2025 and around EUR 30 per tonne of CO2 in 2030. And I ask - where did the comrades in Brussels make a mistake? By destroying Czech businesses, companies, energy-intensive operations, it is simply a disaster. The deindustrialisation of Europe, at least Central Europe, is taking place, and large companies, those who will have the funds to do so, will go to countries where energy will be much cheaper, because with expensive energy, of course, their products will not be competitive on the world market. By the way, this has been an increase of more than 200 percent since the beginning of last year, and compared to 2020, it has been a fourfold increase in emission allowances prices. However, not only gas price increases but also financial speculators contribute to these high prices of allowances. These allowances are freely negotiable, which is an absolute outrage with tragic consequences, as we see on the air. Is this what we're supposed to be involved in? It's a crazy ideological regulation with profound consequences! Emission allowances are a kind of modern-day indulgences of the green Euronian religion, with the European Union's highest responsibility at their high price once again, which issues these allowances on an annual basis quite deliberately less and less, thereby increasing their price. The fact that there is a great deal of pressure in the European Union on the transition from long-term contracts for the purchase of gas to purchase on the so-called immediate market on the gas commodity exchange in Rotterdam also has a major impact on the rise in energy commodity prices. This leads to lower prices in the case of excess gas. The problem, however, is in the times of crisis that we are now experiencing, and I fear that we may still be experiencing. Responsible governments, such as Hungarian and Serbian, have resolved this in their own way - they have concluded long-term, several-year gas supply contracts with Russian Gazprom, thus guaranteeing their citizens a multiple-fold lower price for this commodity than it is and will be in the case of citizens of the Czech Republic. And I can clearly say that Hungary has the lowest energy prices from all over Europe. The decommissioning of nuclear and fossil resources and the ever-increasing reliance on so-called renewable wind and photovoltaic sources lead mainly to a lack of available power in the winter period and to a threat to the stability of the electricity network. Electricity consumption is also increasing with the arrival of electricity heating, such as heat pumps, and the development of the European Union and its green plans supported by electromobility. The threat of blackout increases, by the way, and many experts warn against it. The transition from coal and core to gas is also quite paradoxically and significantly increasing the dependence of the European Union states on its supplies from the Russian Federation, contrary to the declared aims of European leaders. As well as rising gas and electricity prices can soon result in European industry leaving - I have already said - at lower energy prices outside the European Union. And it's happening, it's being deindustrialized. High energy prices, for both European and Czech - which we are primarily interested in - can lead the population together with the tide of thousands of jobs to a decline in economic and living standards, and it will probably be in the future, which can then lead to the threat of social and political stability of society. And I say let's wake up while there's still time. With regard to specific government aid to people affected by rising energy prices, there is basically no real, real help worth talking about. It doesn't exist. And what doesn't exist at all is helping businessmen, entrepreneurs and Czech companies affected by rising energy prices, which is an absolutely incredible, cynical and tedious attitude, especially if we know that when electricity or gas collection is conducted in a so-called place of business, not in a private housing regime, it is not only a hypothetical and insufficient option to apply for a housing contribution, but mainly that energy commodity prices are much higher for these demand points for business than in housing properties and their current growth is already winding up for many entrepreneurs and lead to the disappearance of businesses and companies. [[19.40 hours]] The only measures that this government provides for aid to people associated with the rise in electricity and gas prices are certain cosmetic adjustments in setting up the housing allowance. Members of the SPD movement recently supported this proposal in the Chamber of Deputies, because any assistance in this situation is better than nothing. However, this does not mean that we consider these changes to be appropriate, and certainly not a comprehensive, complete or final form of aid to citizens, families and households affected by ever-increasing energy prices, and thus overall housing costs. In its proposal, the government followed the proverbial course of least resistance when the citizens, whose housing costs increased enormously, basically put the employment office in line with a request for a housing allowance, with the fact that it might be a successful request, but in many cases probably not. Because the government has proposed a slight increase in the housing contribution by increasing the so-called normative housing costs, but the parameters for entitlement to it, i.e. the ratio of housing costs to total household income, which would be really important and important, have not been adjusted, so even in this case it has not reduced at all. And I think we all feel it this year. Touch your heart or raise your hand to those who do not have increased backup on energy while living. The rents just went up, the heat prices went up, the energy prices went up. We all pay for it. Working citizens have a difficult, even impossible approach to this contribution compared to those who are not working, and those who are not working, I do not mean the elderly and the disabled. As well as a very difficult procedure for this contribution, citizens living in their own properties, in their own apartments or houses, especially in the countryside, but also those who live in cooperative apartments. There is also an enormous administrative difficulty in processing applications for housing allowance, content and time, as well as the fact that according to a professional and interesting study recently published on the List server. avy many persons who would have legal entitlement to this contribution do not even know about its existence. This study estimates that there are up to two thirds of citizens with this entitlement, i.e. about 300,000 people, especially seniors. This is confirmed by the latest data of the Office of Labour of the Czech Republic, which administers the housing allowance and which states that it has received 17 000 new applications from the beginning of the year until 4 February, especially in connection with the increase in energy prices. It is clear that this unfortunate situation concerns more than hundreds of thousands of our citizens and households. As for our seniors, a system solution instead of referring to a humiliating and complex procedure for undergoing (?) requests for social benefits of price increases not only by energy in relation to this group of our fellow citizens would be to introduce a minimum retirement pension of roughly the current minimum wage, which is the long-term proposal of the SPD movement. It is quite obvious that the primary responsibility for the current high prices of energy commodities is clearly the government of the Czech Republic. The Government as a supreme state body and a supreme executive institution of the State. Therefore, this government should also immediately start to act and take concrete steps to reduce energy prices by the instruments at its disposal. Indeed, it can be inspired in this area in the near foreign countries, in the states of the Visegrad Four, Slovakia, Poland and Hungary, which have already taken such steps in the energy sector for the benefit of their citizens. The government should simply assume responsibility for the production, distribution and pricing of electricity. Through the Energy Regulatory Authority, the government should immediately reduce regulated components of electricity and gas prices, which account for about half of the total price of these commodities for consumers, and not increase them in violation of any elementary logic, as has happened recently in our country. Furthermore, in a simple and clear way, the government should help citizens and companies that are now most affected by the rise in energy prices. For example, by fully paying energy supplies to those citizens, households and firms who so request, whose energy suppliers have recently ceased their activities from one day to the next, these citizens and customers had to switch to the so-called last instance supplier under extremely disadvantageous financial conditions. The demise and termination of the activities of some of these energy suppliers, licensed by the State in the past and enabled them to make fairytale profits for years, and that these suppliers did not comply with the applicable agreements with citizens and companies is therefore the fault and responsibility of the State. He should repair the damage from this. And then, in the course of the various bankruptcy proceedings, the funds spent would have to be recovered from these unreliable suppliers. High energy prices in the Czech Republic are also, and this is relatively little known, involved in the electricity tax and natural gas tax introduced here on 1 January 2008. And you know why? Based on the conditions of membership of the Czech Republic in the EU. The electricity tax rate for 2022 is 28,30 per megawatt hour and is part of the price of services, as is the case with value added tax. Natural gas tax is a mandatory component of the price of this commodity. It is a gas tax for natural and legal persons who are suppliers or consumers of natural gas; according to the purpose for which the gas is supplied, the rate of that tax is then fixed. The basis for calculating the amount of this tax is the amount of gas in one megawatt hour of so-called incinerator heat. The natural gas tax paid by the final consumer is now at 30.60 kroner per megawatt hour. The natural gas tax concerns legal and entrepreneurial natural persons, i.e. taxes that are relatively hard and, above all, unnecessarily burden our businessmen and entrepreneurs and reduce their competitiveness. And they are taxes imposed on us by the European Union. And now something about the foreign experience of solving high electricity and gas prices. The Slovak Government agreed with the largest electricity producer in the country, the Slovak Power Plant, to supply electricity at prices which are significantly lower than the prices on the market. Slovak families and households should thus save about a billion euros in total in their electricity accounts over the next three years, i.e. roughly CZK 25 billion. That's some help! The average savings of the household will be at EUR 500, i.e. over CZK 12,000. In turn, the Hungarian government granted thousands of small businesses and companies access to cheaper electricity and at the same time decided to set a temporary ceiling on fuel prices. So far, this is true for businesses with ten or less employees. Orbánův's government has already reduced electricity and gas prices for households, not for the first time. A few years ago, Hungary nationalised several distribution companies in an effort to ensure cheaper energy and reduced prices for households have remained valid since then. Moreover, since February this year, the Hungarian government has reduced prices of six basic foods - flour, sugar, sunflower oil, milk, pork and chicken - which must fall nationwide to the level of mid-October last year, and has introduced a price ceiling not only on energy and fuel, but also on mortgage credit rates. You hear me well. Helps people get a place to live. In turn, the Polish Government temporarily reduced VAT on fuel by 15 percentage points, or on food, from 5% to zero. Six months so far. The Polish Government has also reduced the energy tax to four months. Above all, Poland was the only one who disagreed with the Green Deal agreement, negotiated an exemption for the production of energy from its own coal resources. It did not join the commitment to achieving so-called carbon neutrality by 2050, and it also gained the promise of huge financial subsidies from EU funds. Coal will be the key word in the future. Coal will be the key word in the future. [[19.50 hours]] Literally a few days ago, Croatian Prime Minister Andrej Plenković presented a package of measures that he intends to contribute to reducing the effects of energy increases. The main point of the package is a significant reduction in VAT on gas and electricity. The new measures in the total value of almost 15.5 billion crowns are focused on all Croatians. At the same time, VAT is reduced to 5% in Croatia to basic foods such as meat, eggs, fruit, vegetables, butter, edible oils and fats. How can we face all these threats I described at home? Especially by the accelerated construction of other nuclear blocks in Dukovany and Temelín. Dukovany won't be enough. We swap two for two, the capacity stays the same. The decommissioning of coal resources should be conditional upon the completion of the construction of their corresponding compensation regardless of Green Deal. The interests of the Czech Republic and its citizens must come first, as well as the interests of Hungary on Maďar and Poland on Polák. Within the European Union, we must insist that, in a situation where high electricity prices arise generally outside the territory of the Czech Republic, especially our German neighbours, and lead to a threat to the social and economic stability of a large part of Czech households, that we will sell Czech electricity directly to Czech citizens, not via the Leipzig Stock Exchange, by the so-called social tariff. We can sell surpluses to anyone for anything, but we need companies not to leave us, so that people in the Czech Republic have a good time. It is a defense against our rich and economically strong neighbor, who has not secured enough energy resources and even shut down nuclear and coal power plants himself, overpaying Czech citizens and the Czech industry when purchasing electricity produced in the Czech Republic because they have such wages and wages once. Another important point is leaving the emission allowance trading system because negotiating its meaningful reform is virtually impossible. We have to act, and fast. High energy commodity prices are threatened mainly by low-income working groups of citizens and also by our industry, especially energy-intensive ones. We have to rely exclusively on ourselves, no one on the outside can help us. On the contrary, the new German government coalition wants to further strengthen its transition from coal and core to renewable resources and electromobility. It is so highly unlikely that the European Union will respond rationally to the present situation. The only sensible path seems to be: the rapid restoration of Czech energy sovereignty, self-sufficiency and security. That, Madam President, was the two points that I wanted to include in the programme, and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-000-000.u22	Thank you, they're registered. Then we'll proceed to the next applications. But first, I'm going to read the apologies that ran out in the meantime. Mr Jan Richter apologizes, starting at 18 o'clock for work reasons. Mr Jaroslav Bžoch and Mr Petr Fifka take back their apology. Mr Milan Wenzl is still apologizing from 20 o'clock for health reasons. After settling this, I will read the order of applications for proposals to change the program. First Mrs Pokorná Jermanová and then Mr Mašek, Kobza, Maříková, Zlínský, Vondráček, Šafránková, Pošarová, Štefanová, Oborná and Koten - two applications, Kettner - two applications, final application by Mr Radovan Vích and Mr Karel Sládeček is still reporting. This way to visualize the order. I will now ask Mrs Pokorná Jermanová to proceed with her proposal to change the programme. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-000-000.u23	Good evening, Madam President, Minister, dear colleagues. It's starting to be a tradition, but I'm coming before you again with a request to place a new point called the Sale of Štiřín Castle. But I will not repeat what I have said here many times, that it is the most well-maintained cultural monument, that it is in a lucrative place, that it is a shame to get rid of it. I would like to ask you, at this point, to include this point already in the light of the fact that a resolution has been adopted on both the Committee on Budgets and the votes of Members of the Five Coalition, which calls on the Government not to sell this property, this cultural monument. The same was done in the inspection committee, where this was very much discussed. If we include this point, I think we do not have to discuss it for a long time, but I would like to read the resolution that the House should vote on in this text. "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government to ensure that the cultural monument of the castle Štiřín remains in state property. Secondly, it recommends to the Government that it transfer the cultural monument of Zámek Štiřín to another organizational component of the state, such as the Office of the Government of the Czech Republic, the Ministry of Culture, the National Heritage Institute, the Office of the Chamber of Deputies and the like, and sought the economic and cultural use of this unique complex. Thirdly, it calls on the Minister of Finance to ask the Director-General of the Office of State Representation in Property Affairs to extend the term for the offer of the castle Štiřín to state institutions until 30. 9. 2023." Once again, I appeal to all the Members who are in the hall or listening to us and are at today's meeting to support the inclusion of this new point, because I hope that, as I believe, our state's budget is not so bad that it has to be rid of important cultural monuments. Because otherwise, I can't resist the idea and the question of what we'll be selling next. Karlštejn, Křivoklát, any other castle or other valuable monument? It's not that I want to be haunted here, but in the past few weeks, we've all noticed that there's a cultural monument being sold, and it's a post office building, the main post office on Jindřišská Street. I think they're the kind of sites that aren't supposed to be sold. I'd like to appeal this way to everyone, and I'm sure in your families you've also heard from your parents, grandparents, that you shouldn't sell what you didn't build. And that's double that right there. I therefore ask for the support of this point, its inclusion as the first point in today's negotiations. I repeat, it may be very short. Alternatively, second as the first point on Thursday 29. 6. after written interpelations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-000-000.u24	Thank you. We will now proceed to the proposal made by Mr Jiří Mašek. Mr. Jiří Kobza will then be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-000-000.u25	Madam President, Madam Minister, Minister, colleagues and colleagues, I would like to add a point to the Government's Information on the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Health of the Czech Republic's plan to relocate the air rescue group from Plzeň-Lína airport to Klatovy. This information came to an urgent medicine professional company and raised significant concerns among aviation rescue experts. I basically follow up on the point that President Babiš proposed here first, and it concerns Lína airport and, in fact, its other fate in connection with the construction of the gigafactory mentioned or its non-construction. Here we would need a clear answer from the government, because the construction is obviously still in the dark and it is rumored that the big factory should end up in a completely different state. Yet steps are taken such as this, and this is the relocation of the flight rescue crew. I quote - who has a bit of a map of the Pilsen Region in his head - that the transfer to Klatovy in question means moving 50 kilometers south under Pilsen. This would mean a major deterioration in the availability of the flight rescue crew for the northern part of the Pilsen Region and, in essence, the failure of this service for the Karlovy Vary Region, which is already problematic by the air rescue service. [[20.00 hours]] That is why I would like to ask the Secretary if the information is true. In case it's true if it's just in case she's leaving the gigafactory, and then I'd - or I'd come in gigafactory. And then I would demand, and the Expert Society would also want urgent medicine, and I assume that even the absent Minister Válek here, in order to maintain availability, that is, to consider some airport near Pilsen as close as possible to Pilsen. Then I would like to ask if the information - and the information also goes and is not yet verified - results from the fact that the Ministry of Defence is considering leaving the air rescue service and even during the contract that is currently concluded with all operators throughout the Czech Republic until 2028. Then it would be serious information again and would mean that another operator would have to replace the Army of the Czech Republic, probably the Police of the Czech Republic before a replacement operator could be found. That's why I want to ask if this information is true or not. Or if they are technical that we do not have the technique or strategic character due to the other use of the airmen of the Czech Army - or what is the reason? Therefore, I would really like to discuss this point, I think that a relatively short answer is sufficient, and I would like to take the liberty of including this point, or suggesting that we place it as a second point in today's negotiations. And if I may, it provoked me to design individual points today. Madam President, I would like to add one more brief point and it would be called: Can Mr Rakušan count? What is compulsory solidarity in practice? And it went away here today, because compulsory solidarity in practice according to the migration pact, which, according to my court and court of many others, the minister signed without the mandate of the government, without the mandate of Parliament and without the mandate of the citizens of the Czech Republic, so the compulsory solidarity in practice means either you accept a specified number of migrants, so we can talk about whether they are quotas or not, but it is a specified number that is done according to the GDP and the publicity of the particular state. And then, if you accept, o. k., if you do not accept, you will pay EUR 20,000, which is equivalent to about 500,000 Czech crowns per migrant - but beware, every year! So here, in the next few years, the effect of snowballs and picking up that horrible amount is actually imminent. On the other hand, the same minister boasts how we manage migration, and, among other things, he mentioned the migration of Ukrainian refugees, the legal migration, let's say solidarity, which we do not have a problem with. But at the same time, EUR 1.3 billion goes to this migration, one time, and that is a ridiculous CZK 2,300 per migrant. And if the minister says after the signature, I wasn't afraid, I went into it with my boobs, there was finally someone who could do it... So don't let him get mad at me and explain these things. That is why I would like this point, whether the Minister can count and what it is actually compulsory solidarity in practice, as it looks like one and what it looks like on the other side, so I would like to include as the third point of today's programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-000-000.u26	I'll just make sure, Mr. Rakušan can count? is the name of that point? Isn't that right? And what is compulsory solidarity in practice? The next envoy, Mr Jiří Kobza, will now appear, followed by Mrs Maříková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-000-000.u27	Thank you, Madam Vice-President. Sorry, Madam President. Sorry for the miscommunication. Time's making progress. Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose three points on the agenda for today's meeting. I propose the first one under the title Threatening freedom of speech and freedom of speech in the Czech Republic. I would like to include him as the first item in this programme and lead me to the following explanation. I recently had the honour of speaking in the Senate at the seminar Freedom of speech and after the speech held by Senator Dr. Daniela Kovářová and whose last-minute Senate Constitutional Law Committee took away the patronage it had previously given her. The reason for this was the unsatisfactory cadre profiles of individual panelists, including, among other things, Nina Nováková, Senator Jiří Čunek, lawyer Ondřej Dostál, entrepreneur Daniel Vávra and Vlastimil Veselý from the Society for the Defence of Freedom of speech and Publicist and publisher Michal Semín. Senator Tomáš Goláň, President of the Senate Constitutional Law Committee, has indeed requested the development of detailed materials on the political and opinion profiles of individual panelists, some of their cadre opinions, on the basis of which he subsequently decided to abolish the patronage of the seminar by Senator Kovářová. I'd like to make a brief quote from Senator Golán's case report. Jiří Kobza is a Czech politician, member of the SPD, member of the Foreign Committee. European values rank it among the active spreaders of the cremelian misinformation narativů. - So I'm responsible for what I didn't say. - In the long term, it is putting itself in a position against the European Union, which is linked to its support for direct democracy. Kobza supports the referendum on the withdrawal from the EU, referring to the argument that, if the vote on accession to the European Union has been voted on, there can be a vote on the exit from the European Union. As against the EU, it is defined against the adoption of the euro. It challenges the freedom of speech on Czech Television, claiming that society is being orwelled. According to him, Czech television is politically and opinionally unbalanced and biased in the field of news and publicity. It is against the military support of Ukraine, whether it is the supply of weapons or other military assistance, and is defined against LGBT++. - I'm guilty. This activity by the Senate Constitutional Law Committee, which is an official institution of state legislative power, is, however, a flagrant threat to freedom of speech and freedom of expression, even against other legislators representing the views of hundreds of thousands of citizens. What is involved with freedom of speech, and what role does executive power play in this? Media manipulation of facts that may spread and which must be withheld so that the right, ideologically correct image is any twisted reality. Censorship of media and censorship on social networks, their shut down or shut down websites at the order of Military Intelligence, which we had here. Fighting the regime with misinformation no matter how true they may be, and other and other things, including limiting the reach of social networks, such as the so-called Shadow ban on Facebook. The disinformation industry, the so-called fight against disinformation, which is financed from public budgets, feeds very well a number of organizations, pseudoexperts and pseudo-professionals. One of them, František Vrabel of Semantic Visions, who collects millions of crowns from the state, recently said: The best misinformation is the one that is completely true and its strength lies in rewinding the narrative at the end of this information. It wasn't really written by Orwell or Huxley. And let's move on. President of the ODS, who always had the freedom of speech nominally in the coat of arms, and Prime Minister Petr Fiala, in an interview for Regional Diaries, said quite recently: We must protect at all costs, and that matters to me personally, freedom of speech, speech, all attributes belonging to a free society. On the other hand, people have the right to correct information. - Then choose. We focus mainly on positive disinformation, but we will not leave the way of instruments for legal sanctions for those who spread them. I remember that from the '70s. It kind of gives me the creeps. What does that mean in translation? We have freedom of speech here, but woe when you say something that doesn't like and doesn't fit in the store. In that case, your freedom of speech is completely limited because you're a disinformer and we're gonna spin you! After Bolshevik, you'd like to say the words of a film classic. [[20.10 hours]] Just freedom of speech according to the government applies only to their permitted words. Freedom of speech is fine, but how about freedom after speech? And that's already happening. The report itself on the extremism of the Ministry of the Interior, which in itself is a dubious instrument in a democratic state, did not say if it is abused to ostracize political and opinion opposition, admits that currently more than 70 persons are being prosecuted for public, verbally expressed views, regardless of the numerous professional and existential ostracizations, bullying, and, as the Czech saying is, a fussion, which we see on the current case of the removal of Dean Miroslav Ševčík from the National Economic Faculty of the University of Economics at the edge of law, morality, ethics and academic freedoms only because he stood up in his spare time for a man attacked by a police officer on an authorized anti-government demonstration. And that's pretty scary. Finally, I would like to quote several outputs from a very interesting recent survey by SANEP - Freedom of expression and new forms of censorship. This survey was carried out in February this year on a selected representative sample group of 3,256 respondents, with the overall participation of 27,862 registered users within the panel of registered users, which is a real picture of the public's views. According to this survey, more than half of Čech are afraid to express their views openly and feel censorship is returning. This is 33 years after November 1989, which was also marked by a return to human rights and freedoms, including freedom of expression, a disastrous and alarming outcome. The most common reasons for fear of open expression of respondents include fear of dismissal or discrimination at work, bullying on the Internet and disruption of relations with friends and colleagues. More than two thirds of the respondents believe that government politicians are primarily spreading false information. Almost 60 per cent has included public media in the dissemination of disinformation. The most feared citizens are publicly and openly expressing their views on migration, covid, gender, LGBT+, and marriage. Where did we get to after 33 years? People are most afraid to express their views on migration and the issues of covid, as I have already said, and there is a common concern about what will happen when they express their views. The results of the survey also indicate a contradiction between the public opinion and the actions taken by the current Fialův Government in the area of restrictions on freedom of expression and censorship. And the same goes for Euro-EU Jourish censorship legislation. At the same time, the survey shows that freedom of speech is one of the most important elements of democracy for Czech society, which is encouraging. Three fifths of respondents said that they had already encountered some form of censorship. It is mostly about blocking or erasing profiles, contributions and other services on social networks, limiting the scope of contributions, and so on - I personally have the same experience - which implies that digital censorship is a very real problem and that, in addition to the increasingly rude state or government interference in freedom of expression, there is also a strong restriction on the part of private private entities headed by large digital platforms that generate huge profits in our country - and by the way, they do not pay any taxes. Thus, more than two thirds of citizens believe that Petr Fiala's government is the main spreader of disinformation in our country. And there's a lot of truth in that, and all you have to do is watch the election and the recent statements of government officials about it, for example, that in no way will they ever raise taxes. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to include this point for its seriousness as the first item in the agenda for this meeting. I would like to propose another point on the agenda, including House Press No. 13, which is the proposal of the SPD Group to amend Act No. 40/2009 Coll., Criminal Code. Specifically, it is a ban on the promotion and dissemination of hate ideologies - not only a movement, as it is now, which is our debt in order to eliminate shortcomings in the current form and regulation of the law, which does not address the issue of public dissemination of ideologies promoting hatred of groups of people on the basis of their race, sex, faith, nationality or other common characteristics. It is therefore time to correct this deficiency and add two words - "or ideology" to the wording of the law after the term "motion." That's a bill amendment we've been waiting for for for the fourth year. It is by far not only now known hateful and hostile ideologies that already exist, but also such ideologies that are less known, which we may not yet know practically, ideologies that can be imported to us from outside or such ideologies that can only arise, whether they are hidden under various sophisticated -isms. Let us therefore give our police, state prosecutors and courts an effective tool to deal with the spread of hate ideologies not only now but also in the future. Let us give a clear signal to such spreaders of hateful ideologies that they will come across the law here and, as such, they will be dealt with under this law. It is our commitment to citizens in this respect that we will take care of the security of this country and its citizens. Because if any ideology calls for hatred, we must keep an eye on it, and we must have an effective law that will allow us to confront it in time. So, by far, it is not just selective prosecution of Islam, as we are sometimes encouraged, however much Islam we can include among these hateful and dangerous ideologies. These include, like, Nazism, other ideologies calling for violence and hatred for certain groups of people. Islam is not only a religion, it is a very complex ideology that solves in the smallest detail the personal lives of Muslims, their relationship with unbelievers, women and so on and which includes the methodology of expansion to non-Muslim countries in the form of their subsequent Islamization. This doctrine of the conquest of the West has recently been referred to as political Islam according to the concept of imám Chomejní. Let us remember here one regulation that extends to all Islamic teachings - not adapting to the environment or the host country, not integrating, believing that Muslims are superior to infidels and non-believers, so-called cafes. Furthermore, there is also the duty of Islamisation of non-Islamic countries, their domination using all instruments, means and in their eyes and all weaknesses of democracy. There is a difference between the take-off and beautiful words of some so-called Islamologists about the contribution of Islam to culture and Europe and the cruel reality that we see not only in the Middle East and North Africa, in Islamic countries torn apart by civil wars, but also in Western Europe. It is now in the grip of an endless situation between brutal violence, terror caused by mass illegal Islamic migration and political correctness. Let us learn from the mistakes of our neighbors and not protect those who want to destroy us. This point, of course, is also directly linked to the point on the migration agreement, which was here just now. It's all connected to each other. It is not worth so much effort to see what the situation in the countries to the west of us, where Islamists take power in certain areas, where Muslim enclaves arise under the domination of Sharia's rights, its enforcers and executors, and where the original inhabitants are afraid to go. We see the tolerance of teenage wives, which is characterised by open paedophilia, even polygamy, not to mention the tolerance of violence against women, such as marriage rape of underage wives. So the question is, how long and how far does Western Europe want to go and whether it has anywhere to go. And does he have the right and consent of his citizens to do so? When only in Germany do Muslim organizations have 7 percent in parliament? Do you think we are really safe here in the Czech boiler? We Čech also have our victims of Islamic terrorists. They were real people, our fellow citizens, they had their families, lives and dreams, and they died because of the hateful ideology of Islam, and they deserved me to read their names to you so that they and their survivors would know that we had not forgotten them: Petr Kořán, murdered by a Muslim attacker on July 24, 2005 in the Egyptian Sharm-Shaichu. Ivo Žďárek, diplomat and ambassador, murdered in a terrorist attack by Islamists in Islamabad on 20 September 2008. Pavel Hrůza, murdered by the Islamic State in Libya, the exact date is unknown, it was in 2016. Naďa Čižmárová, murdered by an Islamic terrorist in an attack by a truck in Berlin on Christmas markets on December 19, 2016. Lenka Civínová, stabbed to death by an Islamic terrorist on July 14, 2017 in Hurghada, Egypt. [[20.20 hours]] These Čech were murdered by Islamic fanatics who wanted to kill random unbelievers in the name of ideology. They only died because they were on vacation or somewhere handy, just at the wrong time in the wrong place. Since September 11, 2001, more than 5,000 Američan and Evropan have been killed by Islamic terrorists. So the question is, how many more victims of Islamic attackers are we going to have to have here so that the apologists and supporters of Islam will wake up and finally begin to understand what this is all about. Is the sad and bloody story of the transformation of Lebanon, a democratic, open and multicultural beautiful country not enough for a bloodbath of civil war? How much more blood must flow in order for Czech legislators to wake up from the nightmare of political correctness and begin to understand that they should protect their citizens? It's enough with these two words: or ideology. I would like to include this point, if possible, as the third item in the agenda for today's meeting. And I would like to propose the inclusion of the fourth point, and that is House press number 16, which is the proposal of a group of members of the SPD to amend the Act on State Holidays, on other holidays, on important days and on working quiet days. I have been making this proposal for several times, in the past period and now, but it still hasn't made it to the House's agenda. The proposal contains two points. Firstly, we propose that the important days of the Czech Republic be included on 15 March as the Day of Memorial of the Victims of the German occupation of the Czech countries, and secondly we propose to change the sign of the important day on 18 June, from the current Day of the Heroes of the Second Resistance to the German occupation of the Czech countries. The reasons leading us to this are as follows. March 15, 1939 is the beginning of the most tragic stage in modern Czech history. The Czech State lost the last remnants of any state sovereignty that day, followed by its direct military German occupation and a six-year period of targeted terror and the killing of the inhabitants of the Czech countries, today's Czech Republic, which clearly had genocidal features and genocidal character. According to the results of the research of the Military Central Archive in Prague, the number of victims of the German Nazi regime is approximately 343 000 people throughout the former Czechoslovak state and Czechoslovakia. However, that number does not include those who died after World War II on the consequences of abuse, persecution, the consequences of imprisonment in concentration camps and prisons, the consequences of so-called total deployment, exhaustion, malnutrition and epidemics. So the actual number of actual victims is even higher and will certainly not be far from one million people. The number of direct victims of German persecution in the Czech lands is at least 122 000 people. During the existence of the so-called German Protectorate, at least 8,000 citizens were executed in our country, some 70,000 Czech Žid died in concentration and extermination camps, another 3,500 died in forced labor in Germany. The victims of German Nazi terror became entire villages, the most famous of which are Lidice and Ležáky. And it is extremely important to point out that 100,000 Čech died in the domestic resistance, who participated directly in the resistance. Not only the rebels but their families perished there. That is why it must be clearly recalled on 15 March, not only as a memorial to these victims, but rather that the law on state holidays already, and that is correct, includes among the Czech important days on 27 June as the Day of Memorial of the victims of the Communist regime, as well as on 21 August as the Memorial Day of the victims of the invasion and subsequent occupation of the Warsaw Treaty army, where the number of victims was lower in order than in the case of the German occupation. In this context, both in this law and in view of respect for historical truth and especially in view of respect for the victims of the German occupation of the Czech countries and the survivors of them, this day, March 15, should certainly be held as the Day of Memorial of the victims of the German occupation of the Czech countries. Another reason for the proposed change is the ongoing and unacceptable attempt to rewrite history, especially the attempt to relativize guilt for World War II, the attempt to relativize the damage done by the German regime during this war and before it since 1938 on the Czech country and Czech people. There is also a strange campaign going on in public space trying to convince us and, in particular, our young generation that the German occupation of the Czech countries was just one of the historical episodes that affected our state and which was basically nothing special. Czech citizens, soldiers and civilians demonstrated extraordinary heroism and courage abroad in various anti-Nazi armies, but mainly in domestic resistance, where the situation was by far the most difficult and dangerous. And this is the reason for the second amendment proposed by us, which is the renaming of the important day of June 18 from the Day of the Heroes of the Second Resistance to the German occupation of the Czech countries. The term "second resistance" is now quite vague, unaddressed, neutral, and also less widely known in general, especially in younger generations. And here, too, there is an argument about the unprecedented inequality of this anti-German anti-Nazi resistance in relation to other historical types of our Czech and Czechoslovak resistance. This resistance was fundamentally larger, stronger, more numerous in terms of its intensity or the number of its actors and its victims, as well as the nature of the enemy he faced. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg you to support the inclusion of my proposals. I would like to include this point as the fourth item in the agenda for this meeting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-000-000.u28	Thank you for the proposals. So now Mrs Maříková will speak with her proposals to amend the agenda, followed by Mr Zlínský. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-000-000.u29	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I would like to propose a new item called the Green Deal Retreat Discussion, and it would be for fixed points. From time to time, there will be a moment in history when someone tries to impose on people what they don't really want. It usually wraps itself in some nice words, presents it as something that will be perfect, and after the plan has been implemented, there will be a paradise on earth. It didn't work out with Nazism, communism, so we're gonna try it with Green Deal. The European Parliament has banned the sale of new cars with an internal combustion engine since 2035 as part of the search for emission reductions. In 2021, Prime Minister Petr Fiala claimed that the ban on the sale of cars with an internal combustion engine was unimaginable to him. It was Prime Minister Fiala who claimed that banning the sale of cars with internal combustion engines would endanger an existential number of people who do not use our car as a luxury or for fun. It was Prime Minister Petr Fiala who said that the ban on selling new cars with an internal combustion engine is something unimaginable. The paradox is that it was just under the Presidency of the Czech Republic in the Council of the European Union when this was voted. Since 2035 petrol, diesel and hybrid vehicles should no longer be sold, only extremely expensive electric cars, for which we do not have electricity, we do not have chargers, we do not have raw materials. In the current state of technology, the planet does not have enough raw materials and energy to fully replace coal and gas power plants and cars with internal combustion engines with new, emission-free resources and means of transport. The Finnish geological service has published a thousand-page raw material study, which is based on a very warning conclusion: there is not enough raw materials on Earth, such as rare metals, to replace current fossil resources with renewable ones. Surovin'-intensive batteries are essential not only for electromobility but also for emission-free renewable energy sources. We don't even have fire technology. We don't have the recycling technology of electric car batteries, but we already know that one day we'll be able to dispose of them. And the argument that accumulators will be used in the storage of electricity is odd. The problem just pushes it away. It's a good habit that technology develops first and then we start using it. Not the other way around. [[20.30 hours]] Let's have a chat sometime with a Green Dealer. Typically, he's a pseudo-human student who enthusiastically pushes his green ideas and often uses turnovers, like "it's already been made up by then" and so on. Unfortunately, the European Union treats the problem similarly and puts itself in the position of someone who enthusiastically jumps out of the plane with the fact that the parachute is somehow provided on its way to the ground. This madness can deprive a huge number of people of their jobs and put a large part of their citizens into poverty, because they will no longer be able to afford a car, and they will jump to the price of electricity and gas. The entire Green Deal is a tool to enslave and control people, and to do so, green lunatics use a green attack on fossil fuels and a combined attack on CO2 emissions. This government goes hand in hand with eco-terrorists who want to destroy the standard of living that Western civilization has achieved. When representatives of this government claim they disagree with the decision to ban the sale of new cars with internal combustion engines, they lie. What did they do? Are they boycotting it? They hit a table in Brussels and said no? Or are we not gonna let that happen? No, they didn't do anything! It is, for example, by increasing the price of road signs for cars with internal combustion engines that contribute to this service. The Czech Republic is dependent on the automotive industry. The Czech automotive industry accounts for more than 20 percent of all locally manufactured goods. It employs over 120,000 people directly and produces more than 1.3 million cars each year, which means that every 23 seconds a new car is made in the country. Overall, 35 percent of the Czech economy depends on this sector. Brusel, together with this government, wants to destroy all of this. They advocate progress - but when mobile phones came to the market, did you not get land lines? When the laptops came, did they forbid you to use hard desktops? When the computers came, did the typewriters forbid you in the process of progress? If electric cars are so much better, willn't you let people switch to them gradually, as is the case with progress? The basic premise of the Green Deal Brussels plan claims that European countries must stop releasing carbon dioxide in order to prevent the warming of the earth's climate. But despite the huge investments made by the EU countries, the world's emissions of this gas are still growing. If the countries of the European Union stop releasing carbon dioxide tomorrow or 2050, it will have the same effect on its total emissions as the decline in water consumption in the Czech Republic on the amount of water in India, i.e. zero. Of course, this fact is persistently ignored not only by green activists, but also by the vast majority of the top politicians of the countries associated in the European Union, not to mention the European Commission. However, we will all pay for this ridiculously built fight, because our states, like the European Union, finance it all for debt, and if it is not for debt, we still have to pay for it. The Czech Republic should be committed to the Green Agreement, because otherwise not only will people not be able to afford to buy a car, but otherwise there will continue to be a sharp increase in electricity or natural gas prices and emission allowances for homes and individuals will come one day. It's starting to talk about the fact that if the house isn't ecological and economical, its owner won't be able to sell it in the future, and even rent it, which is a pretty significant intervention in the rights of the owners. Looks like we're gonna see the totality after all. It won't be brown or red anymore, but it'll be green. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-000-000.u30	Next, Mr Zlínský will speak with his proposal and Mr Vondráček will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-000-000.u31	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose a new item on the agenda, which will be called Discussion - a decline in the number of children born in the Czech Republic. I have already intersected Minister Válek on this subject. It's been months. The number of children born in the first quarter of this year was not yet known, so I secretly hoped that the decline, which was evident in previous years, in the previous two years, would not actually be, but unfortunately continues. So for this reason, I propose this point because I am extremely concerned because the birth rate in the Czech Republic has fallen by 21 percent over the last two years. This year from January to March 22,000 children were born in our Republic, last year for the same period 24,500 and two years ago even 27,800. Significantly fewer children began to appear surprisingly suddenly at the turn of 2021 and 2022 and showed it actually in January 2022, where the circus was perhaps 11% down. What are the causes? I have just intersected Minister Válek because I have expressed my suspicion that the time of covid and simply the trials that were going on around the covid could be the cause of the incident, and I have been answered by the Minister of Health by the document signed by the Minister that the Ministry of Health will not save the birth rate in the Czech Republic. The answer did not satisfy me, so I will simply continue to do so because I consider it extremely serious, and I will try to dismantle it here in some way. So what are the causes? I'm not saying it's supposed to be the unfortunate vaccination we're offering, but it's one of the options. Of course, there's more to it than that. It could be some kind of natural condition that's related to the variation in the number of potential parents. It could, of course, be an energy crisis, or a war in Ukraine, the consequences of a covid being lost, or the cause that must not be talked about very much, but I will allow it here behind this table, and I will mention it openly that it would be vaccination with genetic vaccines. As far as the first option is concerned, 20 percent less children were born between 1993 and 1995 than in the previous comparable period. Demographers explained it by simply opening the door to the world and a lot of possibilities after the revolutionary period, so families began to delay parenting. It was then gradually restitution and adjusted to the previous level. Between 2018 and 2020, fertility stagnated at the level of 1.7 of the child per woman, and in 2021, it jumped - miraculously - to 1.83 and decreased to 1.66 last year. This is such a minor mystery, but it was explained because the President of the Czech Statistical Society and the Mathematician of Olomouc University Ondřej Vencálek found that women of reproductive age, that is, between 15 and 49 years old, suddenly disappeared from 2020 to 2021. So I guess no one kidnapped them, or that they'd all travel so suddenly, or that they'd die, it wasn't. This is due to the fact that, in the meantime, the number of parents is only estimated. The number of children is known. And it was in 2021 that there was a census, and then it turned out exactly how many parents, potential parents between the ages of 15 and 49, we actually have. And so, of course, the fertility doesn't only affect the number of births, but also the number of parents, and if the number of parents was overshot, we didn't actually get the number in the previous years, and we actually found the modification right by subtracting the 80,000. The energy crisis broke out a little later, so it couldn't have been. The same applies to the war in Ukraine. [[20.40 hours]] Of course, what's available is the result of long covid, because we're already finding out that long covid has a pathophysiological explanation because it damages the brain, there's a fusion of the neuron. But essentially those studies that should be carried out, somehow not available on this topic, how long covid could affect fertility or fertility. So as for the consequences of the vaccination, there would point to the fact that, in fact, the decline started suddenly nine months after the main cohort of the population, which is involved - those women and, finally, men - that they are able to produce children, but it is not that simple. I have to say objectively that in our country the fall is far more severe than in Austria, where it is only 4.5 percent per year, in Poland 8 percent and in Germany 7 percent. So, of course, there's a way to explain why that is. But, of course, I'm not gonna bring up any theories that aren't confirmed, because it's not right for me to really spread any untruths around here. So, fellow Members, I would like to ask you, as the responsible elected representatives of our citizens, to take seriously into account this unhappy situation instead of addressing such marginates as the adoption of the law on marriage for all and the Istanbul Convention, which, with great probability, will not increase our declining birth rate, on the contrary. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-000-000.u32	Mr Vondráček will come forward and Mrs Šafránková will follow. Mr Vondráček is not here, he is failing the order, he is placed at the end. And it is followed by Mrs Šafránková, Mrs Pošarová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-000-000.u33	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to put two points on the table, which I am attempting to assign to each meeting here. And I think it is very important from the point of view of the need for urgent assistance from two socially most vulnerable groups of fellow citizens. First of all, it is paragraph 28, which is House press number 9, and it is a bill to amend the Social Services Act. It is a proposal that I made in October 2021, and it is an increase in the contribution to care for disabled citizens dependent on the care of other people in the first and second stages of addiction. These contributions last increased eight years ago, which is a catastrophic number. And we all remember last December, here in the House of Government Members, when they did not apply to their voting facilities, although they were present in the hall, deliberately blocked the possibility of this law being properly discussed at first reading. Moreover, the government has increased the prices of all social services for these disabled citizens since January this year, leading again to a further deterioration in the availability of these services to our fellow citizens and to a deterioration in the quality of their lives and their health. Do you know, for example, how much is the allowance for care for disabled adults in the first degree of addiction, i.e. for persons who are unable to perform up to four basic needs of life? It's 880 crowns a month. I therefore propose to include this point as the first item in today's negotiations, or Friday 30. 6th as the first point. Furthermore, I would like to propose a pre-routine of paragraph 76, which is the Parliamentary Press 266, and it is a bill for amendment on state social support. [[Law]] It is a proposal to increase parental contribution and to introduce its annual automatic valorisation directly into the law. Families with the smallest children are one of the most endangered social groups of our citizens, which is now all the more true given the high inflation, which brings the real value of the parental contribution far below its 2020 level, when it was last increased. Let us remember that aggregate inflation in these last 3.5 years accounts for about 30 percent. And the fact that if the so-called government austerity consolidation package is put into practice, families with the smallest children will come by at least another 42,000 crowns a year, which is the sum of the annual discount on the wife or husband in the household and kindergarten, which the government wants to significantly reduce or cancel. In recent days, we have heard the government speak of increasing the parental contribution, but unfortunately again, it has not been enough given the rise in inflation since its last increase. So a priority discussion of our proposal would also significantly speed up the legislative process on this issue, which is very desirable in terms of families with children and all citizens. I have submitted this proposal for the SPD to increase the parental contribution more than a year ago, and it is precisely in view of the price increase since 2020 that I propose to increase it by CZK 100,000 at this time, i.e. to a total of CZK 400,000. At the same time, this proposal also includes the incorporation of the annual maturity of the parental contribution according to inflation developments directly into the law. And I will also suggest that parents can take turns with their parents if parents return to work early. It is completely unacceptable for us the declared government intention to increase parental contribution only to parents of children born after 1 January 2024. We reject this selective and antisocial approach. It is not possible to discriminate against families only on the basis of the date of birth of the child and thus create legal and economic inequality between them. We prefer that the parental allowance should be increased to all parents who take care of the child under four years of age, with a minimum limit that is not exceeded for us to increase it to all parents who will receive it on the effective date of its increase. The government also wants to combine the increase in parental contribution with a reduction in the maximum draw time from four to three years. This is once again a completely nonsensical measure, especially at a time when sufficient preschool facilities are not available and when the government proposes to abolish kindergarten fees. That's what the Fialův government really did to us! I beg you to support these proposals. Thank you. Also - I propose that this item be included as the second item in today's negotiations, or Friday 30. 6. as a second point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-000-000.u34	Thank you, Madame. But you honestly fill out the application with these data, which I appreciate, and it's listed there, so thank you. Mrs Pošarová followed by Mrs Štefanová. And so does the honourable Member.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-000-000.u35	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to add a new point, namely the competence and incompetence of the current government, the current ministers. As for the Minister of Finance, the planned expenditure of the state exceeded an unprecedented amount of CZK 2 trillion. The government coalition went to the election with the fact that the previous government has indebted our country deeply, but the current government is much, much worse. I'd even say unique in debt. In the Czech Republic, in the fourth quarter of last year, debt increased year-on-year by the most from all countries in the European Union by 2.1 percentage point to 44.1 percent of gross domestic product. The state debt then rose to a record of over CZK 2.99 trillion. By contrast, debt has decreased by 4 percentage points across the European Union and reached 84 percent of GDP. The management of our state budget ended at the end of May with a deficit of CZK 271.4 billion. I think it is time not only to replace Mr Nekula but also other ministers, including Minister Stanjura. Future Minister Mr Mgr Marek Výborný, Member of KDU-ČSL, who studied theology and history at Palacký University in Olomouc and since 2001 taught history, social sciences and Latin at the Pardubice Grammar School, should now perform the Minister for Agriculture. Where are your experts? Now you're sending out a signal to the citizens that there's nothing left to do but pray. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-000-000.u36	Mrs Štefanová will now speak, followed by Mrs Oborná. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-000-000.u37	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose a priority for today's meeting, point 24, respectively, House press 5, draft bill on the abolition of judicial executors, for a simple reason. The adoption of the Enforcement Order in 2001 extended the existing types of execution to another kind of execution carried out by judicial executioners under the Enforcement Order, then conceived as a specific legislation in relation to the general procedural arrangements contained in the Civil Procedure Code. The order of execution therefore delegated part of the jurisdiction of the court, namely only the one which is applied after the judgment was given. The establishment of the judicial executor was mainly followed by the acceleration of the recovery process, which was decided by the competent body. The judicial bailiff is therefore, in fact, a state-appointed authorised person for the execution of the execution operation. The aim of the newly anchored regulation was, with the help of the material involvement of the private entity, to allow the entity in the process of enforcement of the decision, which, in its own interest, will endeavour to recover the decision as quickly as possible with the highest possible return for the entitled entities. The motivational executor for increased performance is thus primarily his reward. The material involvement of the bailouts in the execution results has undoubtedly increased the efficiency of recovery, but above all at the expense of the debtor's position. Of course, the order of execution assumed that relatively detailed procedural rules would be a sufficient element giving limits to the financial motivation of the executors. However, this assumption has not been fulfilled, and in many cases the executive authorities have become a so-called state in the state, and their practice has often ignored not only the rights of debtors but also the legitimate interests of creditors. By adopting this legislation, the State resigned from its role to ensure enforcement of the decision and failed to ensure effective enforcement through judicial enforcement, i.e. civil servants. At that time, the enforcement of the decision provided by the civil servant worked smoothly in other countries as well. This is why we propose to return the executions back to the state. I would like to place this point as item number 1 at today's meeting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-000-000.u38	Thank you for your suggestion. Now, then, Mrs Oborná, with her proposal, followed by Mr Koten.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-000-000.u39	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I will be very brief, but I consider it important that this be said here. I propose a new point on the agenda of the meeting, under the name Engagement of the Czech Industry in the Construction of New Nuclear Sources, because - as you all probably already know - the Czech industry naturally and logically has an eminent interest in participating to the maximum possible extent in a strategically important project, on a project that will affect our country's future for at least another half century. The total cost of building a new nuclear block in Dukovany is CZK 160 billion. According to the data currently available, domestic businesses can participate in the construction of the planned nuclear block from up to 65 percent. In this case, the Czech gross domestic product could increase by up to CZK 234 billion and revenues to public budgets by up to CZK 96 billion. The Czech industry can participate not only in construction but also in service works during its operation. Tens of billions a year would potentially be generated following export projects on the basis of acquired know-how in the field of experience and references from new blocks and related adequate tax effects for the state budget. I therefore consider it absolutely necessary and crucial that the completion of nuclear blocks be linked to the maximum involvement of the Czech industry. Unfortunately, according to information, neither CEZ nor the government has made any request for the percentage participation of Czech companies towards potential suppliers. As a result, there is absolutely no communication between potential candidates for construction and domestic enterprises, and they are very uncertain about their possible participation. I think it is high time that the government gave a clear opinion on the participation of the Czech industry in the construction of new nuclear capacities in the Czech Republic right now, and I therefore propose to include this point as the first one after the fixed points. Thank you for your support and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-000-000.u40	Thank you, too. Mr Koten is now registered. He's got two applications, but he's not here, so I'm gonna put his applications at the end. The following is Mr Kettner, also with two applications. Mr Vích will then appear. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-000-000.u41	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I propose two points first and second points of today's negotiations. The words I'm gonna say aren't gonna be the first time in here, and I don't think it's gonna be the last time. One of the points I would definitely like to place is a revision of a failed inclusion. Today it's called joint education, and it's camouflaged in some way, but it's still the old inclusion. If we focus on the very beginning of this whole case, we had special education here, where real professionals, special educators taught. It was a completely functional and perfectly thought-out system, thanks to which we could pride ourselves on practically 100% literacy in educational children, even among the most problematic. The system was really amazing that it allowed even those children with the greatest problems to experience a sense of success, to experience a sense of victory, from the fact that in the collective in which he worked, he was on the same level with children and peers, so he had a chance. Then there was a situation where there was a case that caught up with a cunning lawyer who probably wanted to build a career or make money on it, and based on some unfortunate experience of a limited group, a huge problem was created that our special education is actually part of a system that discriminates against certain groups of children. Unfortunately, instead of making it clear and concrete for the Czech Republic to explain clearly and professionally our system of special education how it works, we unfortunately hit heels and grabbed the activists who invented this from my pedagogical point of view are not afraid to say educational pasculi. Because he can't make any money from the inclusion at all, but no one at all. It doesn't make healthy kids without problems, it doesn't make teachers, but unfortunately, even those kids who were so-called "inclusive" won't make money on it for reasons I mentioned a while ago. It's nice that we put them in that class, but the kids in this direction are very cruel, and when these peers with the disability are not able to do the best we can to achieve is a certain degree of tolerance, but those kids really aren't able to do anything else. This means that the assistants of the educator who are there actually function as some overseers in most cases. I don't say those minor forms of disability, but it's already been treated. We had so-called integration here, and children with specific educational needs were quite common in the ordinary classes, but these were children who pursued intellect and had really only specific educational needs in the sense that they needed a different, specific approach. And it worked. My college classmate, too, was a very strong dyslexic and dysgraphist, and he handled college fine thanks to this system. And all of a sudden, we wanted to come up with something that was more of a utopia. [[21.00 hours]] Another big problem is who we want them to educate. We want a regular educator to do it. Not after a special educator. This means that we have done more work and other problems in addition to those teachers, because if they are doing their work responsibly, they had to deal in depth with the issue, they had to study materials that belong to special educators. But it can never be at such a level as when a truly special educator who has graduated from this work does. The other things are the teachers' assistants. I can imagine an assistant teacher, a graduate of a secondary school who will graduate, will have basic knowledge of pedagogy, special pedagogy and everything related to it, and such an assistant will really be a full help to the educator in the classroom, a coworker and a true teacher. It must be said, however, that if we have such a professional secondary pedagogical cadre, then we must also pay it better than the way the ordinary assistants of the educator are paid today. If you look at the paychecks of a regular teacher's assistant - of course women usually do it, and if they don't have a man who makes enough money, it certainly wouldn't support the assistant. And it's just, the whole system is wrong. As I was saying, then the assistants in most cases, or I won't be so drastic, in a large degree of cases they work more as an overseer, who has the task of either protecting the children in class from an aggressive individual, or the individual who is very submissive to the aggressive class team, which is simply not the ideal solution for me. Moreover, it is said that teachers' assistants cost too much money, that the money is not received. This means that even what was said to the educators that there is enough money and that the assistants will be as many as they need, so this promise also begins to limp in some way. I have already noticed in the professional public and even here at the House of Commons across the political parties a hint that the inclusion, as it has been enforced, is not good and that it should in some way at least be adjusted. We are constantly hearing that we, the opposition, are populists. I'm not gonna be a populist in this regard. The inclusion itself cannot be cancelled today from one day to the next. Why can't he cancel? 'Cause those kids are already in cross-sections from first to ninth grade. This means that we, if we decide in this regard to somehow heal and save education, so if we start now, the minimum duration is eight years, which is exactly the time before those kids who are currently in first grade before they go out and go to high school. Then we could only run into a meaningful system. And now I have already mentioned all the reasons why I think that the revision point of the failed inclusion is quite important, because, as has already been said not only from my mouth, but also from the mouth of the current Minister of Education, that really all the changes in education are going on a long track, and if we do not want those changes with each new election to be completely overstepped by the fact that education is paying ugly for it, then those changes should really be discussed in such a way that they remain in force no matter how the political composition in the Chamber of Deputies changes. So that's the first point-- revision of a failed inclusion. And the second point, surprisingly with me, is once again about education, and that is the point of a systematic violation of the school law. I've played this point several times. I intervened with the former Minister of Education, sent an initiative to the Czech School Inspection. I will repeat again, the law in this regard, the law in school, perhaps not even crystal clearer. There it is clearly written: the promotion of political parties and movements and their programmes is unacceptable. Period. You just can't write it any more clearly. Of course, I can be tolerant in some way that I can imagine that there will be, for example, the President of the Czech Republic going to schools, for the reason that he is now directly elected, he is, in fact, a so-called supraparty, and he is the highest constitutional figure when I say this, the head of the anointed, of our state. So I can somehow admit that he could go to those schools. The second exception I can imagine is the Minister of Education, which is quite logical. The Minister of Education, it is precisely his department, opening the opening ceremony of the school year and similar officialities, that is, if the Minister of Education arrives at the schools, I do not see the problem. But any other active political person, known and associated with some political party, where it's clear when I see that name, I'm automatically assigning myself to a political party, so basically, the promotion for that party is just the presence of that person. Why am I constantly appealing to this? Because I'm a long-time teacher myself. And I'm not saying this here because, like, I want some advantage that I want to go to those schools, too. I know it's just unacceptable for me to come to that school just because I'm the bad side, the bad side. But that's not why I'm saying it. I want the law to be enforced, fall to whom. Just don't. Politics doesn't belong in schools. I'll suggest a simple solution. If politicians feel they have the need to say something to the young generation, there is no problem. So whether the school announces an event, a meeting with the Member or any constitutional official, outside the classic teaching which is mandatory, at three o'clock in the afternoon. It may even be on school grounds, but outside the mandatory attendance for those children, when the parent decides, or even the child, if he really wants to hear it, if he really wants to discuss it. But not as part of compulsory schooling. Indeed, I see this as a fundamental problem, as a regular violation of the law, which has somehow settled here as a common practice. Very bad practice for me, though. And we should return to the roots of the interpretation of this paragraph, where the real promotion of those parties and movements and their programs is simply inadmissible. And dot and fall for who. And that would be my second point in the program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-000-000.u42	Thank you. The current Member, Mr Radovan Vích, is Mr Sládeček. I'm gonna ask my colleagues and colleagues who are coming to keep their voice down, and I'm gonna ask you for a word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-000-000.u43	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Good evening, esteemed colleagues, esteemed members of the government. I won't be as long as my previous speaker. I propose that item 73, which is the House Press 258, be the first item on today's agenda for the Chamber of Deputies after the already firmly placed items. It is amazing that five-wheelers not only do not present their own bills that would be useful to Czech citizens, but also block opposition bills that could benefit our citizens. It is a great pity that Parliament's press number 258, i.e. the proposal of Members Lucie Šafránková, Tomio Okamura, Radim Fiala and others to issue the Act amending Act No. 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance, as amended, was not given the opportunity to be discussed at first reading. When I refer to this proposal in substance, it is a proposal to amend the basic rules for calculating pensions, namely pensions of all types: old-age, disability and survivors under the Pension Insurance Act. [[21.10 hours]] The pension consists of basic and percentage scales. The basic salary is the same for all pensioners and corresponds to 10 per cent of the average wage as declared by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. For 2023, this basic exchange amounts to CZK 40,400. To this base is then added a percentage of an alias of merit component. And it is individual for each beneficiary and depends on his previous career, his length and amount of income, i.e. insurance contributions. This percentage is a determining part of the pension. The construction of the calculation and determination of pension amounts has long been detrimental to low-income pensioners, both old-age, disabled and survivors, widows, widows, orphans, in particular at the moment of statutory pension valorisation, which is based on a combination of an increase in the basic and percentage of the pension, with a higher and decisive increase in the percentage. In the current situation of unprecedented price increases for all basic cost of living, low-income pensioners, especially the lonely ones, are one of the most endangered social groups. They are a group located in the income poverty band or threatened to fall into debt traps and executions. It is therefore essential to increase pensions as quickly as possible, especially the lowest ones. I therefore consider it the most appropriate way to increase the basic pension ratio by 3 percentage points, from 10 per cent of the average wage to 13 per cent of the average wage, as suggested by the House Press 258. It is evident that the government does not address this issue even in the quasi pension reform that is being put forward. According to our proposal today, the basic component would be CZK 5,205, so that each pensioner would raise CZK 1,165. The magic of the unwanted is practically the same amount that the government has collected from the extraordinary valorisation of the average pension. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-000-000.u44	I also thank you for the proposal. [[Noise in the hall.]] Mr Sládeček and Mr Vondráček, who is still not present, Mr Koten, and I do not see him here, so perhaps this is the last change of the programme. I beg the peace of mind in the Chamber and in the Member's office, I beg his word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-000-000.u45	Thank you. Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose here a new item on the agenda of today's meeting, entitled Vacation Minister of Bachelor Lipavský in Crimea. [[Fun in the hall.]] Minister Lipavský on 24. 6. wrote on Twitter following tweet. Quote. "I see my summer vacation in Crimea is getting closer." Since Minister Lipavský is a very experienced and world-renowned diplomat and all his statements have an incredible response in the world, we have considered with some colleagues that we will pay him a two-year wellness stay on his desired Crimea. We would like to discuss the possible date for his departure at this point. Since this is an extremely important point, I propose that it be included as the first item in today's meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-000-000.u46	Thank you, too. Mr Radek Vondráček has now the opportunity to speak with his proposal, but he is not present, nor is Mr Koten, still present - he is not present. So none of his applications will be used and both will fail. They were the last logged in, but they didn't show up. I'll just read the apologies. In the meantime, I called my colleague and colleagues from the lobby because we will vote on individual proposals to change the agenda. They apologise to Members: Kobza Jiří from 21:00 and subsequently from 21.15 hours for work reasons and Mr Lochman Ondřej from 21:00 to 22:30, also for work reasons. Now, once again, I call on my colleagues and colleagues from the lobby. This is the Member, President Jakob with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-000-000.u47	Thank you. Madam President, given that the debate has been quite long, there have been a number of proposals, so I will ask for two minutes' breaks for the club meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-000-000.u48	I hereby declare two minutes breaks for the TOP 09 meeting until 21.16. [[The hearing shall be suspended from 21.14 to 21.16 hours.]] It is therefore 21.16, the TOP 09 break has expired and we will proceed to the vote on the proposed changes to the agenda. First, proposals from the Gremium. If there is no objection, then we can vote the proposals at once, and if there is no objection, so because they were heard here at the beginning of the meeting, I will not repeat them. I'm especially asking if there's an objection to repeating them. There's no requirement for me to repeat them, not on either side. I understand, of course, the interest in the check-out, which is why I am signing you all off and I ask you to re-enlist with your cards. Once the number of applicants has settled, we will vote on proposals from the Gremium. I have here one factual remark from Mr Sadovský, which I see as a bluff, so I am erasing it. The number of entries has stabilized. I am opening the vote on the proposals as agreed by the Gremium. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 3 of today's meeting entered 158, for 158, against no one. The motion was accepted. We will therefore now vote on the individual proposals, as Members and Members have put them. President Excellent proposes that item 103, i.e. House press 462, to give consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Czech Republic and the United States of America on cooperation in the field of defence, be discussed today as the first point. I am opening the vote on this proposal for a solid inclusion of a point and I ask who is in favour? Who's against it? In vote number 4 entered 158 present, for 139, versus 15. The motion was accepted. [[21.20 hours]] In addition, President Excellent proposes that item 110, the House Press 165, the Act on the residence of foreigners, be discussed on Wednesday 28. 6. as the fifth point, i.e. after the points we voted for from the Gremium. Initiating vote. I'm asking, who's in favour of putting this point firmly? Who's against it? In vote number 5 entered 158 present, for 90, against 15. The motion was accepted. Also, President Excellent proposes item 67, House Press 241, an amendment to the Civil Code to be discussed on Thursday 29. 6. after the point of written inhalation, i.e. point 125. I am opening the vote on the solid inclusion of this item. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 6 entered 158 present, for 139, versus 14. The motion was accepted. President Excellent's proposal that we place the amendment to the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms on Thursday 29th, paragraph 79, which is the House Press 276. 6. after the previous item which we have now voted on, i.e. after paragraph 67, i.e. the second item after the written submissions. I am opening the vote on the motion tabled and I ask who is in favour? Who's against it? In today's vote number seven, 158 are registered, for 154, against no one. The motion was accepted. President Excellent's proposal that item 121, House Document 2675, set up a committee of inquiry of the Chamber of Deputies to investigate the case of the President's Office between 2013 and 2023, be firmly included on Thursday 29. 6. as a third point, i.e. after paragraph 79. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 8 entered 158 present, for 87, against 64. The motion was accepted. Furthermore, President Excellent proposes that paragraph 115, House press 437, state enterprise law, be discussed on Friday 30. 6. as a third point. Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 9 registered 158 present, for 90, against no one. The motion was accepted. President Excellent also proposes that paragraph 116, House press 444, on excise duties, be discussed on Friday 30. 6. as the fourth point. Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 10 entered 158 present, for 90, against 66. The motion was accepted. President Okamura proposes that we place point 27 firmly, House Press 8, the referendum law, today as the first point. Initiating vote on the proposal tabled. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 11, 158 Members and Members signed up, for 16, against 89. The motion was not accepted. President Okamura also proposes that item 31, House press 12, the amendment to the Penal Code, be discussed today as a second item. I am opening the vote on this proposed firm inclusion. I see. We'll get to it. [[Mr. Zlinsky reporting.]] Who's against it? In vote number 12 entered 158 present, for 13, against 89. The motion was not accepted. Mr. Zlínský to vote, I presume.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-000-000.u49	Thank you for the floor. I voted in favour of the previous vote, and I'm against it at the junkyard. I'm not questioning the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-000-000.u50	Thank you. So we're going to move on. It is now President Okamura's proposal that we place paragraph 24, House Press 5, the abolition of the executors of the court, firmly as the third point of today's negotiations. Initiating vote. I said, who's in favour of the proposal? Who's against it? In vote number 13, 158 present, for 14, against 87. The motion was not accepted. The last proposal by President Okamura was that we should firmly include item 28, House press 9, which is a Member of the amendment to the Social Services Act, as the fourth item of today's meeting. Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 14, 158 in attendance, for 68, against 66. The motion was not accepted. President Schillerová proposes a new point that I will try to read, if I am corrected, because I think someone else has presided. Proposal for transparency of budgetary policy of the Czech Republic. I hope that's okay. [[Member Schiller from the bench: Return.]] Return. Thank you. Return to transparency of budgetary policy of the Czech Republic. That's the exact name. We must therefore vote first on the inclusion of a new point. I am opening the vote to put this item on the agenda. I'm asking, who's up for this point? Who's against it? In the vote number 15 entered 158 present, for 67, against 87. The motion was not accepted. President Babiš proposes a new conservation point for the Lína airport for the army - gigafactory in Pilsen. We will first vote on the inclusion of a new point. I hereby initiate the vote on the inclusion of this item on the agenda of the meeting. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 16 registered 159 present, for 69, against 87. The motion was denied. President Babiš proposes another new point, which is under the name of Petr Fiala's speech at the European Council on disagreement with the migration pact. I hope I don't smack the title. I am opening the vote on the inclusion of this new item on the agenda. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 17 registered 159 present, for 68, against 89. The motion was denied. President Babiš also proposes a new item entitled Government Confirmation that he will never agree to abolish unanimity in the European Union. I am opening the vote on the inclusion of this new item on the agenda. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 18 registered 159 present, for 68, against 86. The motion was denied. [[21.30 hours]] President Babiš also proposes a new item entitled Cancellation of the position of the Czech Republic on the migration pact. Initiating vote on the inclusion of a new item on the agenda. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 19 registered 159 present, for 68, against 88. The motion was not accepted. The next proposal was made by President Radim Fiala, a new item entitled "Proposal to withdraw from the European Union's migration pact, which was approved by the Minister of the Interior. Initiating vote on the inclusion of a new item on the agenda. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 20 registered 159 present, for 68, against 86. The motion was not accepted. President Fiala also proposes a new item under the title Energy Price Discussion. Initiating vote on the inclusion of a new item on the agenda. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 21 registered 159 present, for 68, against 71. The motion was not accepted. Mrs Pokorná Jermanová proposes a new item under the name Sale of Castle Štiřín. Initiating vote on the inclusion of a new item on the agenda. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 22 registered 159 present, for 69, against 85. The motion was not accepted. Mr Mašek has proposed a new item entitled Information of the Government to transfer medical rescue services from Lína airport to Klatovy. Initiating vote on the inclusion of a new item on the agenda. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 23 registered 159 present, for 67, against 86. The motion was not accepted. Mr Mašek also proposes a new point entitled: Can Minister Rakušan count and what is compulsory solidarity in practice? Initiating vote on the inclusion of a new item on the agenda. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 24 registered 159 present, for 67, against 89. The motion was not accepted. Mr Kobza proposes a new item entitled Threatening freedom of speech and democracy in the Czech Republic. Initiating vote on the inclusion of a new item on the agenda. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 25 registered 159 present, for 66, against 88. The motion was not accepted. Mr Kobza also proposes that item 32, House Press 13, the Criminal Code, be discussed as a third item in today's negotiations. Initiating vote. Who is in favour of a fixed classification of this point? Who's against it? In vote number 26 registered 159 present, for 65, against 89. The motion was not accepted. Mr Kobza also proposes that item 35, namely House Press 16, on public holidays, be discussed as the fourth item in today's negotiations. I am opening the vote on the solid inclusion of this item. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 27 registered 159 present, for 65, against 82. The motion was denied. Mrs Maříková proposes a new item entitled 'Resignation from Green Deal'. Initiating vote on the inclusion of a new item on the agenda. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 28 registered 159 present, for 60, against 85. The motion was denied. Mr Zlínský proposes a new point under the title The decline in the number of children born in the Czech Republic. Initiating vote on the inclusion of a new item on the agenda. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 29 registered 159 present, for 66, against 87. The motion was denied. Mrs Šafránková proposes a firm inclusion of paragraph 28, House press 9, the Social Services Act, first of all, as the first point of today's negotiations. Initiating vote on the inclusion of a new item on the agenda. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 30 registered 159 present, for 68, against 68. The motion was denied. Another variant from the Member in the same press is the proposal that it be held on Friday 30. 6. as the first point of our negotiations. I am opening the vote on the solid inclusion of this item. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 31 registered 159 present, for 68, against 65. The motion was denied. Mrs Šafránková also proposes that item 76, House Press 266, on State social support, be discussed as a second item in today's negotiations. I am opening the vote on this proposal. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 32 registered 159 present, for 66, against 70. The motion was denied. Mrs Šafránková also proposes, alternatively, that we treat this point as a second point on Friday 30. 6. Once again, this is the House Press 266. I am opening the vote on the solid inclusion of this item. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 33 registered 159 present, for 66, against 73. The motion was denied. Mrs Pošarová proposes a new point under the title Competence and incompetence of current ministers. I am opening the vote on the solid inclusion of a new item on the agenda. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 34 registered 160 present, for 65, against 88. The motion was denied. Mrs Štefanová proposes that we discuss paragraph 24, House Press 5, the law on the abolition of judicial executors, as the first item today. I am opening the vote on this proposal. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 35 registered 160 present, for 17, against 87. The motion was denied. Mrs Oborná proposes a new point under the title Engagement of the Czech Industry in the construction of new nuclear resources. Initiating vote on this point. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 36 registered 160 present, for 67, against 87. The motion was denied. [[21.40 hours]] Mr Kettner proposes a new item under the heading Revision of the failed inclusion. Initiating vote on the inclusion of a new item on the agenda. I said, who's in? Who's against it? There are 160 votes in favour of 66 against 78. The motion was denied. Mr Kettner also proposes a new point under the heading "Constitutional violation of the school law." I hereby initiate the vote on the inclusion of this item on the agenda of the meeting. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 38 registered 160 present, for 65, against 87. The motion was denied. Mr Vích proposes that we discuss item 73, House Press 258, on pension insurance, as the first item today after the already fixed points. I am opening the vote on the solid inclusion of this item. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 39 registered 160 present for 65, against 89. The motion was not accepted. Finally, Mr Sládeček, the last of the proposals tabled, proposes the inclusion of a new point, under the name Holiday of Minister Bc. Lipavsky in Crimea. I hereby initiate the vote on the inclusion of this item on the agenda of the meeting. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 40 registered 160 present, for 65, against 81. The motion was not accepted. We've dealt with all the proposed changes to the agenda, and I'm gonna make sure that that's true, because there's been a lot of proposals. It should really be. We will therefore now vote on the whole proposal for the 70th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as tabled and amended in writing by approved amendments. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? In vote number 41 registered 160 present, for 134, against 14. The proposal was adopted, so the agenda was approved. I will hand over the management of the meeting and we will continue to discuss individual points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-000-000.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, we will continue with the approved programme and will be the first to open item number
