ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-10-ps2021-053-06-000-000.u1	Madam, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening another meeting on the 53rd session of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome to all of you. I'd like you all to sign up with your ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who's asking for a replacement card. I declare that the following Members have asked to apologise for their failure to attend the meeting: Balaštíková Margita all day - working reasons, Bašta Jaroslav all day - health reasons, Bernard Josef all day - health reasons, Burešš Jan all day - working reasons, Decroix Eva all day - working reasons, Dufek Aleš all day - working reasons, Fifka Petr whole day - medical reasons, Foldyna Jaroslav whole day - working reasons, Hájek Jiří from 14:00 - working reasons, Hofmann Jan whole day - personal reasons - personal reasons, Horák Jiří whole meeting day - foreign travel, Kobza Jiří from 14:00 - working reasons, Kohoutek Tomáš whole meeting day - foreign travel, Kolohradík Martin whole meeting day - medical reasons, King Václav whole meeting day - family reasons, králíček Robert within 12 hours - working reasons, Krutáková Jana whole meeting day - personal reasons, Kubík Jan the whole day - working reasons, Navrátil Jiří the whole day - working reasons, Novák Marek the whole day - medical reasons, Olšáková Eliška the whole day - working reasons, Richterová Olga all day - foreign trip, Růžička Pavel all day - health reasons, Smetana Karel all day - family reasons, Staněk Pavel all day - medical reasons, Šebelová Michaela all day - working reasons, Šimek David all day - medical reasons, Štolpa David all day - personal reasons - personal reasons, Vojtko Viktor all day - foreign travel, Vondrák Ivo all day - working reasons, Excellent Marek all day - family reasons, Wenzl Milan whole day - medical reasons, Žáček Pavel until 11.30 - health reasons, and Mrs Balaštíková cancels her apology. The following ministers apologize from the members of the government: Fiala Petr until 11.30 - working reasons, Baxa Martin within 13 hours - working reasons, Bek Mikuláš the whole day - working reasons, Blažek Pavel the whole day - medical reasons, Černochová Jana the whole day - working reasons, Jurečka Marian within 12 hours - working reasons, Lipavskýý Jan the whole day - working reasons, Nekula Zdeněk the whole day - working reasons, Šalomoun Michal the whole day - working reasons and Válek Vlastimil the whole day for working reasons. I have another message: Mr Major votes with replacement card number 35. Before continuing the adjourned 53rd meeting, I would like to remind you that at 12 o'clock we will start the 62nd meeting and at 13 o'clock we would continue the 54th meeting on the basis of the resolution of the Organizing Committee. We should therefore start today's meeting at the 53rd meeting with a fixed item 98, Parliament's press 288, the government amendment to the Staff Protection Act, third reading, and then continue the points according to the approved agenda. Due to the start of the 62nd meeting at 12 o'clock around 11:53 p.m. the 53rd meeting will be interrupted by Friday of the variable week, which is until 24 March, which is based on the resolution of the Organizing Committee. Now I'm asking if anyone is interested in a performance to change the approved agenda of the 53rd meeting? I have some priority rights here. First, President Michálek, then President Schillerová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-10-ps2021-053-06-000-000.u2	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I'd like to follow up on yesterday's inauguration of the new president. It was a meeting that took place in a very decent way. I wanted to ask you politely and ask you, please let us continue with this work spirit, let us focus on the agenda of the meeting and let us forget that the points in the programme should be sharpened as unfortunately happened to us in this week and last week. Today we are facing, among other things, an amendment to the Public Procurement Act. It is an amendment that removes the shortcomings in the implementation required by the European Union. If we do not fulfil our commitments to the European Union, we are at risk of a fine of at least CZK 41 million. This is the lowest limit of the fine to be imposed at the Court of Justice of the European Union in the event that the conditions to be met by the Member States when they implement European Union law are not met. So I wanted to ask you, please let's take this business day really hard and focus on the bills. I understand that there will be proposals to change the program, that's perfectly legitimate, but let's keep this time so that we can actually discuss...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-10-ps2021-053-06-000-000.u3	I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, colleagues, please remain calm. For some colleagues in the left part of the spectrum - please calm down. Thank you. Of course, even in the right part for some colleagues. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-10-ps2021-053-06-000-000.u4	It's just my appeal to not go back to obstruction and really discuss what we have on the agenda and not spend most of our time discussing what's on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-10-ps2021-053-06-000-000.u5	Thank you. Now with the priority right of President Schillerová and Vice-President Dostálová will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-10-ps2021-053-06-000-000.u6	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I'll just have a short slip before I begin, to Prime Minister Michálek. Please, Mr. Chairman Michálek, through Madam Vice-President, do not smoke us here and tell us what to do. We will talk and you will not silence us, we will talk about all the essential things that plague the citizens of this country, and you do not tell us whether we can or can't. I think that if we communicate with each other about these things, we can also move forward, but unfortunately that is not your strong point, through the Vice-President. So let me propose a new item on today's day. I'll have three points. The first is called the Government's failure to comply with its own programming statement. I mean, therefore, on the basis of which she gained the trust of this Chamber of Deputies. The fact that she turned it into a piece of paper and modified it after a year and a quarter in her image, we consider it a fraud on voters, a fraud on citizens, a fraud on this House, because it gave her confidence on the basis of another programming statement. I'm not gonna talk about him as a whole, so we'll be here by tonight. I have chosen one important thing that the government has given to itself in its programming statement, on the basis of which it has gained the confidence of this House, and which it has quietly crossed out this week. [[9.10 hours]] So let me do my point-- The government is not following its own programming statement - it explained as follows: confusion over confusion. That's how you could describe the actions of this five-caliber government. Last week, as a result of a completely unprecedented situation where, in my opinion, the government coalition decided to deprive the average Czech pensioner of CZK 1 000 a month on average, or about CZK 7 000 this year, and in a legislative emergency at the same time, almost missed the attention of the media - I have not read it anywhere, the government's new programming statement. After more than a year, it is an entirely original way to force citizens to forget their original election vows as well as their post-election vows. I recommend to all legislators, but also to journalists, if I can afford such a recommendation, to compare the government's new and original programming statements. We did it, our shadow government. As an extremely innovative approach from a five-wheeler, I consider the approach to priorities in which they changed only the date by which the relevant priority will be applied. Thus, the government's new programming declaration is full of reformulations, when the original text is replaced by a new priority by mid-2020 or with effect from 2024, replaced by a new reformed priority with effect from 2025. So today, given that we already have an idea over the past few months of how the five-calices run this country, I expect an update of the government's programming statement every year with a transcription of the year. Minister Stanjura admitted that, I quote: There really was no time to change and manage this country because they had a lot of work to do during the Presidency period. However, the fact that the Presidency would bring us anything, for example, that the ban on internal combustion engines would be postponed, cannot be said either. So every year I expect some different excuses for why individual promises could not be fulfilled. However, what I would like to spend more time on here are changes in the government's public finance programming statement, where I would like to point out that they should not be left unnoticed. I consider it absolutely essential - and now, please be careful - that the five-wheelers are trying to sneak in the euro: adding a point to the entry into the ERM II transmission mechanism, which is a step ahead of the adoption of the euro. There is a consensus that in this transmission mechanism we should be as short as possible before the adoption of the euro itself, which is absolutely essential and should immediately provoke a significant social debate. As Minister of Finance, I have always likened the entry into ERM II to entering a pre-room for the euro, where they lock up behind you and there is no step backwards. So look out, let's see it! And I think that, for example, the ODS has always defined itself against the adoption of the euro. So where did the shift come from? To keep your seats and keep the government's five-caliber blind. The fact that further, another point, in some way in the government's programming declaration, lost a point on the tax brake is not surprising either. Once again, I must remind you that this is the ODS, unlike the YES movement, which has historically always raised taxes, and this recipe intends to ordain the Czech economy even now, despite the pre-election promises, and thus further reduce household consumption. Do You Recall? Those billboards, the posters, the passwords, we're gonna put in a tax brake. We quietly disappeared from the government's programming statement. Noticing the media again, absolutely. It was also only as a pre-election promise to reduce social security by 2 percentage points. I have warned in the long term, even during the pre-election debates, even after that it would mean a fiscal intervention of CZK 35 billion - 35 billion in the system from which pensions are paid. That's what it was promised, it was written in the government's programming statement, now it's being erased quietly. So 35 billion crowns a year, which, given Zbyněk Stanjura's demonstrated inability to present any savings on the operation of the state, was clearly not a fair promise from the ODS. It is necessary, and I am very polite. However, I find it most racy to say that in the government's original programming statement, the five koalice said: "The austerity measures of the government will be socially sensitive, especially with regard to education, health, social care and" - watch out, I will now underline it twice - 'in order to maintain the existing pension valorisation mechanism'. I repeat: in order to maintain the existing pension valorisation mechanism. So try to guess for yourself which part of the government's programming statement I quoted just now was deleted - or this week - a moment ago. Yes, it's exactly the part about valorizing pensions, quietly, unnoticed by the media, once again erased. So, by the way, she fixed her five-wheel drive from the program's statement and made a tearing calendar. Apparently, in their opinion, paper can take anything. So last week we got into a completely bizarre situation where we, i.e. the opposition, fought for compliance with the government's programming statement - a new programming statement by the government was approved by the government last Wednesday, i.e. in the first half of the week the original version was valid. So you bent not only the laws of the Czech Republic, the Rules of Procedure, the Constitution, but also your promise to the voters, which you formulated in the creation of a five-calice. And it is quite clear that, given the fact that you had this item in the government's original programming statement, when you created this dysfunctional five-blinder of yours, you had to be aware of the importance and merits of the valorisation mechanism of pensions. Unfortunately, even since this election vow, five koalas have retreated, and yet completely - I repeat - in an unconstitutional way. And the fact that it was unconstitutional is not just my opinion or my colleagues, but many lawyers, but also what Vice Prime Minister Jurečka said on January 22, 2023 on Czech Television on Václav Moravec's Questions. So, based on what I have highlighted and said here, I want to load a point in the Government's failure to comply with its own programming statement and to include it as the first item on today's agenda. For the next item, I would like to propose a point called Reducing the transparency of public finances. And now let me justify it. [[9.20 hours]] After the experience of the last week, when Minister Stanjura, it is mainly his work, he deprived, he patronized the average Czech pensioner by an average of CZK 1,000 a month or an average of CZK 7,000 this year, only because he forgot or simply coughed up or did it on purpose, choose, count into the state budget extraordinary valorisation, even though it was pointed out by his own Ministry of Finance, which he manages, in the fiscal perspective of November 2022, the National Budget Board in December 2022, repeatedly I in this place and in the media, other Members, but this has also been resonated by the media very often. But after this experience, which can hurt the pensioner a lot on their wallets, today I would rather respond to yesterday's published opinion on the development of the management of the public institutions sector and the setting of the fiscal and budgetary policy of the National Budget Board, published yesterday, or absolutely up-to-date. I believe that this discussion and discussion will prevent possible problems which could be exposed to the state budget as a result of creative budgeting, the illegal budgeting of the Minister of Finance Stanjura. So, dear absent Minister, dear colleagues, through Madam Vice-President, the position is not very happy reading, as most of the materials that describe where you have brought our republic in a few months of your government. The Czech economy shows only after a year and a half of the government of five-wheelers significant and in the historical context of a completely unique imbalance, both internal and external imbalances. Firstly, we also have extraordinary inflation figures from a pan-European perspective. Secondly, the unemployment that our government has kept at a minimum during the pandemic is now growing, but so far it is growing slightly. Thirdly, we have an economy in a so-called technical recession. Fourth, in 2022, after nineteen years, there was a negative balance of goods and services for the first time. Fifthly, consumer sentiment is well below its long-term average, and businesses expect a significant decline in growth rates. Sixthly, and here we have a completely unprecedented budget policy of the current five koalice, which, according to the National Budget Board, can also significantly negatively affect the systemic setting of public finances in the future. I'm talking specifically about trying to move part of the deficit from the state budget to state funds. First of all, it is a proposal to issue bonds by the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure. This creative billing is not self-serving, of course. This step in the government coalition is linked to the fact that this year's state budget subsidy does not cover all the approved expenditure items of this fund. As a rule, you always have the expense of state funds, and you're equal to revenue. Period. This is simply not the case today, income is not the same as spending. The reason and motivation for this measure are clear, I have repeated them here several times. Bata State Budget Deficit for 2023 Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura. Now I'm gonna quote from yesterday's National Budget Board opinion. I quote: "This is an unprecedented measure that will reduce the transparency of public finances, increase administrative costs and, with a high degree of probability, increase the interest costs of these loans." End of quote from the National Budget Board. Yes, the budgeting of the current five-calice is trivial. Public finances must be transparent. And here I am not just talking about the fact that Czech citizens have the right to know what deficit the state budget is planning for five-wheelers, but it is also essential for foreign institutions. And if that's not the case, they'll simply lower our rating. Foreign institutions will not be working hard to find where Minister Stanjura hid the state budget deficit just so he does not have to admit that his pre-election vows were a piece of paper. And of course, this creative accounting isn't free. At the same time, it increases administrative costs and, at the same time, is highly likely to increase the interest costs that the Minister Stanjur is growing dynamically. Moreover, it creates a precedent for other entities for this type of financing. As I would hate to see the consequences of reducing the transparency of public finances, increasing administrative costs and increasing interest costs as a result of the irresponsible budgetary policy of the government coalition address it as they like the five-wheelers, in a legislative emergency and unconstitutional manner, I therefore propose the inclusion of the point of reducing transparency of public finances as item 2 of today's day. And the third point that I propose to include - and it is because of the fact that we proposed and initiated an emergency meeting for the lack of medicine for citizens of the Czech Republic has been interrupted, has been placed in such an inappropriate time during last week that it has been interrupted, that I will therefore today mention this problem, this still current problem, which has now unfortunately covered the unfortunate reduction in the valorisation of pensions for our pensioners, 2.8 million pensioners, and we will of course not leave this issue at rest. I'm gonna try to load the point now. If it is not included from the side of the five-calice, which has a majority here, then we have the signatures collected and we will initiate a re-enactment of an extraordinary meeting that we have already initiated once, but it has been interrupted indefinitely. So I, Madam Vice-President, ask for the inclusion of another item entitled Lack of medicines for citizens of the Czech Republic in hospitals and pharmacies. As we all know, Czech hospitals and pharmacies have been struggling for several months with the lack or total absence of antibiotics, medicines for chronically ill patients, as well as completely common medicines for fever, including baby syrups. Unfortunately, the past weeks have confirmed that the Ministry of Health has not communicated, acted and is not active enough to address this urgent and serious, unfortunately, life-threatening problem conceptually. We consider that a complete scandal. [[9.30 hours]] And since the Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek is not working, we recently called a representative of key professional chambers, trade associations to the Chamber of Deputies to help him find a solution. For this I thank my colleagues Professor Adámková, Professor Špičák, Doctor and Members Kamal Farhan and others. The participation of top representatives of Czech health care has clearly confirmed that they see drug shortages as a big problem, as everyone sees this as a big problem. Representatives of the Czech Medical Chamber, the Czech Pharmacy Chamber, the Czech Stomatological Chamber, the Czech Association of Pharmaceutical Companies, the Association of Health Insurance Companies, hospital directors, members of the Health Committee, as well as representatives of patients came. All the more alarming is that the Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek, who is responsible for this situation, was the one who did not come and even sent any representative for himself. The experts were shocked and did not conceal during the meeting that they had not yet experienced such ignorance by the Minister - not only against the opposition, but also against those who were working in the front line and who were expecting support from their minister or at least some indication of the strategy. Ladies and gentlemen, I consider the complete peak to be information placed by the Minister of Health on his Twitter account on 7 February at 8.59 pm. I quote: "Yesterday I dealt with the European Commissioner for Health Stella Kyriakides. The topic was clear, medicines and their lack in the EU. We agreed that we must also address the problem at EU level. Already at the turn of the year, we called for the Swedish Presidency, the HERA and EMA authorities to deal with it. I will raise this issue at the meeting of the EU Council." End of quote. Really? Indeed, after the end of the six-month Presidency of the Czech Republic in the Council of the EU on February 7, 2023, we learn from the Minister of Health that he will raise the issue of drug shortages at the meetings of the EU Council, while the other EU countries are long gone. The Minister of Health of the Czech Republic reports that he intends to raise the topic in Europe, while other countries are already holding back developments in order to protect domestic supplies. While other countries, such as Greece, have extended the list of drugs whose resale to other countries, known as parallel trade, is prohibited. While other countries, such as Romania, have temporarily stopped exports of certain antibiotics and painkillers for children. While Belgium, for example, adopted a decree that allows the authorities to stop drug exports in the event of a crisis. While the German Government is considering amending the law in order to flexibly adjust the requirements for public procurement, which are currently forcing health insurance companies to buy medicines where they are the cheapest, and to concentrate supplies in the hands of several of the most competitive manufacturers. The Minister for Health there has already announced that the Federal Government will set up such a price policy of medicines to make it worthwhile for distributors to withdraw current thinning supplies from other countries of Europe and rather sell them in Germany. In Germany, a legislative exception was also adopted, according to which medicines can also be issued on the German market in packages described in a language other than the German language. Thus, tens of thousands of doses of drugs and cones in the original packaging in English or French quickly reached German pharmacies. The necessary information in German is available on the Internet after scanning QR code on foreign-languagely described medications. While The Netherlands has adopted a law imposing on sellers the obligation to keep stocks for six weeks in order to bridge the shortage. Similar adjustments and rules are being prepared in Sweden. Not only in France, the government there is straining all its forces to convince pharmaceutical companies to move their production capacities. It is evident that in Europe, the struggle for which government negotiates as many supplies as possible for its citizens has flared up, that individual countries that have faced a similar problem as the Czech Republic are implementing functional measures that address this unacceptable situation. I wonder if the Czech Republic can really afford such an unacceptable Minister of Health in this situation? What is the plan of the Czech Minister of Health? What is our government's plan of action for a longer-term resolution of drug shortages in our pharmacies and hospitals? We did not see any plan, on the contrary, we see the Minister of Health and Prime Minister, who, before the problem, put their head in the sand, who lightens the problem because they either don't understand it or they don't want to understand it or both. Anyway, the Minister of Health has failed. His recent communication that he will open the subject up to the Council of the EU is a mockery to me. I'm going to raise another rhetorical question. Isn't this a threat to the state's critical infrastructure? I consider the subject so serious that I propose this point called Lack of medicines for citizens of the Czech Republic in hospitals and pharmacies to include on the agenda today as item 3. If this is not approved, the ANO movement has collected enough signatures to initiate an extraordinary meeting on the subject. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-10-ps2021-053-06-000-000.u7	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Karel Havlíček, Vice-President Klára Dostálová, then Vice-President Karel Havlíček, will now appear on the agenda. Before the Vice-President arrives at the counter, I will read the apologies: Petr Bendl apologizes the whole day - health reasons, Hendrich Igor the whole day - working reasons, Mašek Jiří the whole day - health reasons, Okamura Tomio by 10:30 - working reasons and Opltová Michaela by 9:00 working reasons. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-10-ps2021-053-06-000-000.u8	Madam President, fellow Members, thank you very much for the floor. I just made a little comment on President Michálek's speech on the Public Procurement Act, because he is, of course, very rightly pointing out that there is a fine in the Czech Republic if the European directive is not transposed in time. I can't agree with that. On the other hand, it has to be said that the pirát colleagues themselves are responsible for this, because we have prepared the Public Procurement Act that it should go through as a butter knife. It went through the first committee between first and second reading, and what didn't happen? Two amendments were read at second reading, which simply threaten the transposition of the European directive into the future. One concerned the Czech Republic as the contracting authority itself in relation to the Digital and Information Agency, the other concerning the fact that the European Commission says that the Public Procurement Act cannot automatically exclude anybody that any public procurement candidate, supplier, must have the right to defend itself that there must be equal access. President Michálek has read the amendment, where the provisions of Section 4 of the Act on Conflict of Interest actually put hard into the Act on Public Procurement without the possibility to develop, in quotation marks. So there are two problematic things, and if we are serious about this fine for the Czech Republic, then we can't throw this kind of stick at each other. It is therefore necessary to sit down and try to agree on this, because even the amendment, such as Mr Michálek's amendment, is certainly possible - what he has in Section 6 to put into Section 7, this means the possibility of defending himself, but simply the way it is presented, this cannot really be approved. So let's try to make a deal. It is certainly a better way than to bomb on a microphone like this here, because it is in the interests of the whole Czech Republic to make the Public Procurement Act work. [[A round of applause from members of the YES.]] [[9.40 hours]] However, to the point I'd like today - I'm sorry, I'm just gonna be killing you here so long when you put me on that point and we're gonna talk about it. It's living in the Czech Republic. I'd like to put him as the second point today, which means the second point, because the situation - and I don't know if people are just writing to me anymore - because how is it that you don't see the situation that's going on, where housing for our citizens, for young people, really becomes completely unavailable. And I'm going to try to convince you here once again that the fact that we're going to put it as a point can also be that we're going to talk about which measures, which measures, and now I'm really stressing it, even given, of course, the possibilities of the state budget, can be done immediately, which measures should really be a priority. Unfortunately, neither did the accompanying resolution on the Lex of Ukraine V, where in itself, this is absurd, because although we all agree, of course, that it is necessary for Ukrainian fellow citizens to have it protected for 150 days and then participate in our normal life, it is clear that these Ukrainian refugees will be looking for housing on the market. But there is no housing on the market for Czech fellow citizens, let alone for other influxes. Not to mention that there are completely unequal conditions when you ask for a housing allowance, because Czech citizens have to prove it through property tests that are very demanding, but Ukrainian fellow citizens will give a solemn statement, so paradoxically they can get to the housing market much faster than the Čech. That's why I appeal: let's increase the number of apartments. Let us not address these questions by Čech versus Ukrajinec, but the apartments are not. There's a college charge going up into all this, that's college accommodation, and what's going to happen? Of course, a crowd of students will start looking for a rental apartment in the housing market, where three or four will accommodate them to share the costs. And we're back to it, and there's just no living here. And it is necessary to realize that the Czech Republic is based on 80 per cent of ownership housing, 20 per cent of rental housing. So let's look for a way, first of all, to enable young people to at least get involved in cooperative housing. And here we are. The mortgage is completely unavailable today, we all know that. In all of this, this government has taken further steps on mortgages, for example, some faster mortgage repayment will be sanctioned, and it has even done so by wanting to increase the real estate tax. This means ownership housing is really a problem. And cooperative housing is based on the fact that you as a candidate or anyone as a candidate for cooperative housing has to make a cooperative share, but young people don't have a cooperative share because of course flats are enormously expensive today, they don't stop. What's not enough, it's just expensive. And mortgages don't always make it possible for those loans to be a cooperative share. This allowed the State Fund for Investment Support, which we basically founded under my MMR in the so-called Youth Housing, so that even young people could get a loan from the State Fund, a preferential state loan for cooperative participation. It was up to 3 million, which means it concerned both large cities and rural areas as such. Another big question is, and we can talk about it again: we have municipal apartments here, for example Prague has 30,000 municipal apartments and one tenth of it is vacant. So we have to ask ourselves why these flats are vacant, what is happening, and if there is no need to give a little money to help cities, I am now talking not only about Prague, but also about other larger cities, to give money to rebuild these municipal apartments. I mean, it would help us all so much. If, of course, we could also place in the municipal apartments as the municipality will determine, whether of course they are young people, seniors, low-income groups, community-friendly professions, it doesn't matter, that's what the municipality will say as such. Next, just an incomprehensible step for me is that the MMR program Construction is stopped. The construction program was about building rental accessible housing, this program is set up. However, it is also fair to say that Minister Bartoš is trying to notify a follow-up programme, but notification is obviously a big problem in housing, because housing creates so-called public support, so it is also running on a longer route. And that's why we're here again offering what we could essentially do quickly, and that's not giving big money from the state budget, but helping, for example, to divide housing in rural areas, where there are many multigenerational houses, into separate housing units, which brings costs in the form of separate entrances or separate social facilities. We're not talking about any millions, these are the tens of thousands, maybe hundreds of thousands, but certainly not millions, and that would be right away. There is nothing to deal with, because the houses are already standing, which means, of course, it would only be on the notice of the building process and so on and so on. Another thing that needs to be worked on is the connection between the private and public sectors. State, cities, municipalities have unused land and buildings. So let's agree with the private sector that we will prepare so-called PPP projects, which means that the state will apply as a service for the future. And if it goes as a service, he's not gonna make it to the state budget, but he's gonna pay it off for a few years, of course, but at that point, he's actually gonna use the know-how of developers. We just have to admit once again that a developer is not a dirty word that we can, as a state, municipalities, use their vast know-how and experience to create these flats, and the huge added value of this project is that the state will tell itself what people will live in these apartments, which the state will, of course, pay back for several years. Another possibility is to discuss the state's guarantee of mortgages. Not that he's borrowing them himself, it's nonsense for the state to compete with banks, but he could guarantee so-called multi-generational mortgages. This means that he would guarantee to young people that the payment will be forty years or more, thereby reducing their payments so that it can simply be bearable for young people. Thus, the state is moving the mortgage market again, because for comparison only, the mortgage market decreased by 82 percent in December 2022 in comparison year-on-year. That means we're really stopping all the construction as a whole. So I really wanted to ask so much to talk about these things. You can already see that I'm not mentioning the building bill, because I believe that we're going to have some kind of approval and that it might start to work at faster speeds. But let's talk about quick solutions that can be implemented practically immediately, without any greater demands on the state budget. That's what I'm really pointing out here, but these things need to be done, because otherwise we can really get into very unpleasant situations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-10-ps2021-053-06-000-000.u9	Thank you. Now with priority rights, Vice-President Havlíček and President Jakub Michálek will prepare himself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-10-ps2021-053-06-000-000.u10	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I ask for the inclusion of a point called Media Procurement by the Office of the Government. And I'll explain what's going on. "How did the state divide millions for the media? There are no supporting documents, he admitted to the Office of the Government." So this is a fresh headline from Diary N. Among other things, a good article and I recommend reading it. And it has to be said that this is far from the first offense and that it is starting to pile up nicely in this area. That is why I consider it necessary for us to open this subject here. And I assume that, in this case, the Prime Minister, because he's responsible for the people at the Office of the Government, will give us ample explanation. Because if we're going to recap, we need to start reading the story from the beginning of 2022. It was then that a position was established as a government media agent and for combating misinformation, which looked very nice, but after a year of preparation it ended with one scandal after another. The first problem that occurred at the end of last year was when the so-called Action Plan for the fight against misinformation was published after the year's preparation. This caused a total uproar not only in the media world, but, of course, it caused a chaos also in the political world, and I would say also in civil, because what the government commissioner allowed himself to send out was something incredible. Aware media, unconscious media -- yes, let's understand, the one spreading misinformation, the one not spreading misinformation without clearly telling us how to measure it -- that was the distribution. But I might still take that, if it weren't for the conscious, the one who doesn't spread gets 100 million crowns a year, the ones that are unconscious, the ones that we're going to determine as the one that spreads disinformation, they're going to be put right in court because we're going to adjust the laws. Okay, you hear me? We're gonna adjust the law so we can be tougher on them. [[9.50 hours]] And the highlight of everything was when nonprofits, which should be responsible for writing consciously, should receive 50 million crowns a year. Can we ask where the government agent was before to fight misinformation, if he had anything to do with the nonprofits? Of course he did. It was a huge scandal. And to be honest, that was one of the reasons why the government agent had to quit. For the benefit of the government, it must be said that she realized this and that in time she pulled the handbrake, because what really came out was something incredible. But it's far from over - that we might consider the story closed - it didn't work out, the government agent for the fight against misinformation failed, the wrong choice, shame, well, that happens - if he hadn't blown up another scandal in the meantime. The scandal was that a certain editor, oddly enough the editor of Forum24, Mr Sezemský, did not make himself visible by working with him in the form of the Office of the Government, namely directly as he, the advisor to the Prime Minister, would work for an amount of CZK 500 an hour. All I'm saying is that Forum24 is generally or is also considered by the professional public and publishers to be something that isn't even worth opening. It's more or less a government flyer. However, everyone has the right to give what he wants, nothing against it. I can discuss the fact that since Red Law, there has been no worse ideological journal or weekly or media, but that is, after all, part of democracy. Everyone gets what they want. What does not belong to this is if their editors, who write literally and to the letter on the order of the government, will work for the Prime Minister for these resources. This is completely unacceptable from our point of view, and I am at all overlooking the fact that the editor in question was supposed to advise on social matters, although he is a graduate architect, and that he was to process an agenda concerning various opinions, various consultations - and let us listen very carefully - as well as participation in negotiations. Fortunately, in time it was revealed by other journalists, the person quickly reverseped. And again, it looked like the bubble was going to blow. Well, if it hadn't gone on... And we have scandal number three here, and that is exactly what I started, with which I came up with Diary N. Shortly before the end of the infamous engagement of the government media agent Mr.Klíma, a contract was concluded, namely the last January day, a contract with Lion Communications, which may not be the most important thing, but the contract was CZK 7.5 million, and the contract was about entering into a specific media, buying space for them, and this space would serve to make 30 years of the Czech Republic visible. Again, nothing against 30 years of the Czech Republic being visible. We can discuss whether CZK 7.5 million is a lot or a little, if it were as promised - transparent - and if it were to give head and heel. But when you ask about the Office of the Government and the official inquiry requested, how it was distributed, where the key was received by the media here and which did not receive it, the Office of the Government replied that there was no detailed documentation and there was no de facto any key to answer how it was distributed. Why am I saying this? Because once again, perhaps at random, we have a Forum weekly that I would just like to point out that it does not have any audited costs of really sold copies. Are you seriously making fun of us already? Are you serious? I understand you need to distribute five-calice leaflets in some way. I understand someone has to write your articles. But do it by paying for it yourself, just like we're publishing a YES newspaper. Yes, we pay for it, it costs a lot of money, someone likes it, someone doesn't, it goes in the mailbox, someone likes to read it, someone throws it away, it's reality. But the fact that some pseudo-publishing thing I'm telling you again is not really taken seriously by anyone in the professional industry and it's for laughs, for the money of the Office of the Government, is your message, that's something that's unacceptable. So our request is simple, let's open this point. Please, let's put the facts on the table. Tell us how many points you've given to what key you've chosen, and please explain these at least three points I've opened here. It stinks that you are taking advantage of the uncompromising media that are in favour of you, whether in the sense that you have prepared an action plan that wants to support them, or in the sense of supporting the various non-profits that have ties to them, or in the sense of absolutely incredible reimbursement of invoices by so-called editors, whether external or internal, from the media that are in favour of you. Thank you. And I would like it to be listed as the first item in today's negotiations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-10-ps2021-053-06-000-000.u11	Yes, I'm recording the first point today. I now have Mr. Michálek with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-10-ps2021-053-06-000-000.u12	Thank you for the floor. As has been announced on the Gremium, I would like to read to be the first item on employee protection, which today is the first item on the agenda, House Press 288, a new item was included - paragraph 95, House Press 249, the third reading of the Public Procurement Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-10-ps2021-053-06-000-000.u13	Thank you. I have now signed up for Mrs Balaštíková's programme. You have two applications, so you're running twice five minutes. And then Mr Hubert Lang will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-10-ps2021-053-06-000-000.u14	Hello, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to load a point to the Czech National Bank. Recently, we have witnessed a rather massive campaign aimed at the current Governor of the Czech National Bank, Mr. Aleš Michl, and I think it is all based on some pretty flimsy arguments to cover up the main objective, and that is certainly not the Governor and some of his clearance, but that is the central bank's interest rates. Today they are at 7 percent and, of course, certain financial circles are interested in increasing rates. Each percentage of the increase is the profit of many billions for them. These are people who probably don't care how our mortgage families end up, how exporters and companies with koruna accounts can't keep investing. They attack and their interests lend their name to former board members and various advisors, lawyers and analysts, speculate and invent different things if they could. [[10.00 hours]] It is clear that the Governor of the Czech National Bank does not need "secret" clearance, which Mr Michl has, but I think there is further information here that the former unsuccessful presidential candidate, Mrs Danuše Nerudová, and the new president in the media, has already spoken about the fact that Mr Michl's clearance will be verified by his actions and will look into it. I don't think today's turbulent time would be good to change something like that. On the contrary, by leaving interest rates at the current level and not increasing them, the new Bank Board actually helped our country. Of course, several economists are talking about it. And that's what I'd like to discuss today. So I dare to load this point and I have stated, Madam Vice-President, that I would like to place it on this day as a second-to-last point or a fixed point of 13 hours, yes?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-10-ps2021-053-06-000-000.u15	Yes, but there's a 54th meeting scheduled for 13 hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-10-ps2021-053-06-000-000.u16	So, after the fixed points, please give it to me, okay?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-10-ps2021-053-06-000-000.u17	Okay, so it's fixed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-10-ps2021-053-06-000-000.u18	And now if I can take my time on second?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-10-ps2021-053-06-000-000.u19	Yes, hold on. You can, you're running out of time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-10-ps2021-053-06-000-000.u20	The next item I would like to load is Stopping the programme for precise agriculture. This programme has been acknowledged, the Minister of Agriculture has bragged about how we will save the environment for precise agriculture. To the surprise of everyone, this program stopped and basically I read from the media that it was a thorn in the eye of several agricultural organizations. I found out which organizations they were, and in the words of two organizations. It was the Association of Private Agriculture - o. k., but then it was the Association for Innovation and Sustainable Agriculture, which was founded three months ago and has four members. So if we are dealing here in the Czech Republic with the fact that such two organizations are opposed to something, with four members - I withdraw from it, please, ASZ - but we are not talking to the Agrarian Chamber, which is formed by law, we are not talking to representatives of the Agricultural Union who criticized this Minister's step, so please, where are we going? I would like us to talk about this, because if there is no harm in the environment, it is precise agriculture, and that the Minister has read it wrong and the Ministry of Agriculture did not know who would eventually be the beneficiary of the subsidies, I am truly sorry. But today's big farmers, who do precise agriculture, are really the ones who can do it. I do not know how it is in the county of the Minister, but in the Zlín Region, large farmers normally serve the small ones, help each other, and I think that is what this is about, so that we can help each other and win the fight for Czech agriculture. Please place this point as a point for fixed points on today's day. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-10-ps2021-053-06-000-000.u21	Thank you, too, Madame. Mr Hubert Lang will now appear and prepare Mrs Pokorná Jermanová. Please take your word for it, you're running for five minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-10-ps2021-053-06-000-000.u22	Thank you, Madam President. I, too, would like to place a new item on the agenda of today's meeting, which I called Solving the situation in the alien detention facility Balková in the Gesture of the Department of Refugee Devices. I would like to place this as the first point after the fixed points of today's meeting. What makes me want to place this point? I mentioned once the situation that occurred in the alien placement facility Balková, it happens to be my electoral region. Since then, my other voters have turned to me and I would like to raise this situation here. I wanted to interpel the Minister of the Interior, but given that he does not go to the interpelation and the situation is in some way gratifying, so I would like to briefly introduce you here to the situation at all, which is in this facility or generally in these facilities, because I also received such - I would not say anonymously, but it is simply a certain announcement that I will also want to deal with, which is being handled very sophisticatedly, that is, from the inside - probably - the administration of refugee facilities, which still points to other things, some non-crime, which borders on some kind of criminal notification. [[He's pointing.]] So after some evaluation, I'm still gonna work with it in some way. What's going on? General The administration of refugee facilities of the Ministry of the Interior as an organizational branch of the state fell earlier under the first Deputy Minister, today the Head of the Minister of the Interior for the management of the Department of Internal Security and Police Cooperation. The organization was originally established on 1 January 1996 and was created by dividing it from the then refugee department. In its essence, it has three facilities where foreigners are placed, who have somehow committed some serious infringement. That means, he's not a regular stranger who's going to do some kind of negotiation, the foreign police are going to process him, they're going to get an exit order, they're going to travel time, and they're going back to the territory, but these people are just being secured. It's basically a police prison. We have three such facilities - Bělá pod Bezděz in the Central Bohemia Region, Vyšné Lhota in the Moravian-Silesian Region, and then it is a detention facility Balková, which is in the Pilsen Region, which is my electoral region. People are texting us. Now what happened? In that facility in Balkova, which is most critical, there were, in its essence, several major such unpleasant things, when on 23 January one of the aliens who was detained was set on fire by another two and then one of those who committed it attempted to commit suicide by hanging himself. On February 1, one of the detained foreigners escaped when he overcame the measure and was captured after some time. And the biggest case that came up was February 7th, when 13 Afričan, mostly, ran around the neighborhood. Several SWAT units were called in from the area, two helicopters were flying, twelve were intercepted and one escaped. My point is that, in its essence, since 2006, when it previously carried out surveillance on both the perimeter of the external and internal police, there has been a change in the time when the Refugee Facility Administration contracted civilian security agencies that carry out the internal perimeter. I've been doing some background checks today. The reason was that foreigners weren't stressed inside the facility and saw police uniforms there. In fact, there were virtually no escapes until 2006, no such excesses and so on. Here's the anonymous person who's texting me, he's talking about the fact that these civilian security agencies are in a different way, they're people who are at different levels. [[He's pointing.]] How is it possible that aliens in that prison have some chemical means, they have phones, they have cigarettes at their disposal? The last escape, in its essence, culminated in some way, when it had already exceeded a certain degree. At the same time, the anonymous story is that this is a huge business for certain people, who might as well give the hallmark of a certain civilian security agency a better one, and then, specifically, in the Balk detention facility, the people who work in the CBS are the ones who have no confidence. I have information from the police circles that if it went back to the police force, we would eliminate this thing. I am also saying this because our voters write to me, for example, when a lady writes: "They told us to lock up. At least two people escape every week," the local resident described. "I'm afraid my husband has already died, I'm here alone. I don't know what to do, I'm scared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, address this situation so that it will no longer occur." So I would like to draw attention to this matter. I would like this point to be opened here so that we can talk about it, and we have a system solution. I'm saying I'm definitely gonna intersect the Home Secretary, or maybe I'll write a letter to the Home Office to deal with this matter. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-10-ps2021-053-06-000-000.u23	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Pokorná Jermanová will now appear and Mr Aleš Juchelka will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-10-ps2021-053-06-000-000.u24	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask the House to pre-schedule a bill amending Act No 1 on this way. 348/2005 Coll., on radio and television charges and amending certain laws, as amended. The author of this law is Mr Andrej Babiš and other Members. The aim of this law is that the listed vulnerable groups, particularly in the past two years, which have been struggling and continue to face increased health, financial and social burdens in connection with significant increases in energy prices, food and other basic commodities, are exempted from the obligation to pay licence fees in order to improve their overall social status. [[10.10 hours]] This is one of the efforts to create an environment in which particularly vulnerable groups of people could operate without greater limits and barriers to social interaction. One of the partial instruments to this end is the overall reduction in the cost of living of these people, albeit at first glance negligible, but in its summary representing a substantial burden. In particular, this applies to persons who are entitled to an old-age or invalidity pension or to a disability card and to children who are not provided for as part of the household in which they live together with another exempted person or if they live alone. The reason why I want to present or assign this item to today's meeting as the first point is that the Senate has been pushed through by valorisation, the unconstitutional valorisation of pensions, and it concerns - with the exception of the careless children - all of these groups. And I think that, given that Minister Baxa has announced here that the scope of licence fees will be extended to mobile and computer holders, so I consider this to be a very timely one, and so I would like to put this point forward as the first point of today's negotiations. It's item 83, House press 294. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-10-ps2021-053-06-000-000.u25	Thank you, too, and Mr Aleš Juchelka will now appear, he has two applications, and then Mr Rais.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-10-ps2021-053-06-000-000.u26	Thank you very much, Madam President. We will be meeting today at 13:00 for the fourth time especially at the House meeting on a small amendment to the Czech Television and Czech Radio Act. It is so urgent to discuss this that the government coalition has taken an emergency meeting of the House for the fourth time. Why? It's simple: 7. 6. is the election of the CEO of Czech Television and it is necessary to add the councilman from 15 to 18 to make sure that the election of the CEO takes place smoothly in the direction of this government coalition. Of course, we have a problem with this law precisely because quick consultation is directed towards the one, and that is to usurp the power, 7 billion crowns and the government and all things and events that will happen in the public media in the future. Czech TV has 15 councilmen at the moment. This increase to 18 has one single goal, and that is that the overwhelming majority of councilmen then chose the CEO by the name of the government coalition, and for now, because it is not possible - they probably do not have the number of votes there, I do not know - and we know that in the past this government coalition politicized the Council of Czech Television by electing the Council of Czech Television, and not secretly, as for thirty years it has been done in this honourable Chamber, so of course that goal is the only one, and we have this point firmly here today at 1 p.m., as I say, for the fourth time. My proposed points also relate to this, because the government coalition has not approved the reports on the activities of the Czech Television on the electoral committee twice, for reasons that are pointless in my opinion - once because there was a theorem about everything except how it acted, and how many times, one opposition party in the news programmes before the elections, and all of this was, of course, proven by parametric data, which makes an independent media agency, and because of this little thing here, one sentence, was not approved by the 150-page report, and the second was not approved by the 150-page report, not because it would be bad because there would be something out of it, something that would be outside the activities of the Czech Television, as we know it, but the reason was that the Council of Czech Television did not approve the full bonus to the Director-General. And this was the reason not to approve the report on the activities of Czech Television, because there were supposedly few councillors. So these proxy problems have led to the fact that we have two unapproved reports from Czech Television here, and if we put it together and coincidentally it would simply and simply not have passed the small amendment to the Czech Television Act, then this government coalition is still giving it insurance that if the law does not approve two reports from Czech Television, and this honored House, of course the board can end up in one as a whole, or we can, of course, only recall those councillors who are uncomfortable with the government coalition, and can afford their own councillords there so that they have a majority in the election of the CEO. It's that simple. When one thinks about it at the moment, really the influence and power that the government coalition is trying to enforce against the spirit of some democratic values, the traditions that we have here in the Chamber of Deputies, such as the election of councillors, how they try to step on the public service media, how I would say to the Council of Czech Television, but also the Czech Radio wants to keep it in the loop, that is this new law, it really doesn't seem right to me, and I would like it very much to include here these two reports on the activities of Czech Television - and it has already been announced here by you through Jakob - and it is that in order for these reports to be accepted here before the extraordinary meeting of the House on the small amendment of the Czech Television Act at 13:00. So I would like to include these two reports here, Madam President, before the point that we have firmly placed at 12 o'clock, and that is the freezing of the salaries of constitutional officials to include these two reports in order to discuss them quickly in the Chamber of Deputies, so that the suspicions simply disappear, that we do not want to have these two reports here as insurance on the appeal of the board, on the permission of the new councillors, who will then be the obedient councillors to elect the right CEO, so I would like to include them on this very day, that is, on Friday 10. 3. and it may well be for a firm time, at 11.40 hours, where it takes us really ten or twenty minutes to get these two reports - as the government coalition announces - to approve these motives here - to wipe them off the face of the earth once and for all. I beg the House of Deputies very much to approve them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-10-ps2021-053-06-000-000.u27	Yes, Mr. Ambassador - just a moment, please, just to be clear. You designed two points, didn't you?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-10-ps2021-053-06-000-000.u28	Yes. And now I've connected both of those points to one. [[President: 11.40.]] Yes, at 11.40 p.m., and it is the Annual Report on the Czech Television Activity in 2020, which is the House Press 125, and then we could vote on the Annual Report on the Czech Television Activity in 2021, which is the House Press 188. [[- Yes.]] [[- Yes, thank you.]] And I propose it firmly for 11.40 hours just before the fixed point, not only of course freezing the salaries of constitutional officials, but especially the small amendment to the Czech Television Act, which will be at 13:00.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-10-ps2021-053-06-000-000.u29	That means 11.40 and then two points each, right? [[- Yes, thank you.]] Okay, thank you. Mr Karel Rais will now appear and prepare Mr Ladislav Okleštěk. And I will read an apology: Josef Flek apologizes within 14 hours for work reasons. Please, your five minutes. Please, you can talk.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-10-ps2021-053-06-000-000.u30	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Dear Minister of Education, dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to propose a new point of the meeting, and given that the Minister is here, I could use it, because the point concerned... University workers' wage policy. There are at least two reasons. One is that you see in the newspapers and in the media, the discussion is already underway, I would simply say the outraged staff of academic faculty chambers, particularly humanely oriented, and I would say those who are underfunded, and the other reason is that, as we have heard here from fellow Schillerová, there are changes in the programming declarations and actually the government's commitment to schoolchildren was one of the few specific ones mentioned there. There was a specific number that we could refer to, and we know that these two years were essentially not fulfilled, which was more or less stated in the media as well. So I think these are at least the two reasons why it would be appropriate for us to deal with this. Otherwise, I would repeat - if this minister is here, so I would like to essentially quote him, when one of my interventions, which was aimed at solving the problem, Minister Balaš said - if you look at the Ministry of Education's budget, you can see that scissors are opening between funding for higher and regional education, so the share of higher education in total funding is constantly falling, however nominally that amount may be increasing. The management of the Ministry of Education is aware of the issue here, it is very unpleasant because young promising graduates basically leave for secondary education and the average wage in secondary education is about CZK 15,000 higher than when it remains a technique. So they're... The situation is also even more critical as far as claim tariff components are concerned. In some cases it is 26 to 41 percent, the tariff is lower than the average of tariff components in the Czech Republic is the wage sector with higher education. The category of higher education institutions, docents, is below this national comparison by about 10 percent. I could talk about this for a very long time, but I would like to save it for the point where I would like us to look into it in the context of the new government programming statement. And so I would like to ask for the inclusion of a point that I would call a professionally Unsustainable University Salary Policy of the Government, and I would propose that this point be the first point after properly ranked points at this meeting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-10-ps2021-053-06-000-000.u31	Ambassador, let me get this straight. You suggested a point of payment policy at universities or universities first. [[Member Rais: Yes, yes.]] And now you're renaming it, or is that another point? [[No, no, let's leave the first point.]] So it's just payment policy at universities. [[- Yes, yes, let's leave it at that. Thank you.]] It is now Mr Okleštěk's turn to prepare Mrs Jana Pastuchová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-10-ps2021-053-06-000-000.u32	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear Minister, colleagues, we are here! I would like to include a point of amendment to the budgetary determination of taxes. I have been fighting for this for a long time, and all of us who have worked in, or are still working in, municipal policy, or on the outskirts, we have the issue at our heart, and certainly most of the people present know that there is a different budgetary determination of taxes for the selected group of cities and municipalities. And I'm most sorry she doesn't think about regional cities, statutory cities. When we look at the budgetary determination, we see that the capital of Prague has over 4 coefficients according to the calculation of the budgetary determination of taxes on the citizen, while the other three cities - Brno, Ostrava and Plzeň - have a coefficient of 2,2961, but the other regional cities and statutory cities and municipalities have a coefficient of 1. And that's the buried dog. For a long time, representatives of these very cities have wondered why this is the case. Unfortunately, we see this as a very unfair redistribution, which does not accept the current burden of these cities with the transferred effect of fulfilling the role of natural regional units, where there are many administrative activities where culture, sport, education are centralized, it is simply directed primarily to those regional cities so that the economy does not suffer, but unfortunately those regional cities have a coefficient of 1 that I mentioned. Nor is the role of these cities in tourism, jobs, the provision of specialised and professional health care, just a lot of it. It is clear that the issue of setting the budget for tax determination is very complex and it is also very emotional for city and municipality representatives, because it does not please them when they are in such a way in quotes in oppression. There are representatives of municipalities against each other who try to change the allocation coefficient so that a group of municipalities, such as municipalities with few inhabitants, on the other hand a lot of inhabitants, a large cadastral territory of the village, for example, a low population or a large proportion of industry, a large proportion of agriculture, a lot or few business entities, regional centres, and no less tourism, which I mentioned, and, for example, spa. All of this has an impact and a great impact on the management of regional and statutory cities. It follows that this issue is not at all simple. While maintaining the total share of the shared taxes, the imaginary hot potato is a conformity coefficient for individual municipalities on the part of those dependent on these resources. That makes it very difficult to find the optimal deal. Colleagues, colleagues, in the current composition of the House, where I see many representatives, mayors, mayors, mayors, former or current captains, regional representatives, I think there is a unique opportunity that we can take advantage of in order to think deeply about the issue of budgetary tax determination. None of us wants selected ammunition to be so-called horny or to be better off than others, but we want all of us to have a level playing field so that we can develop those parts of our regions that are not doing very well. [[Time.]] Thank you for watching the time, and I ask you to include this point as the first point in today's negotiations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-10-ps2021-053-06-000-000.u33	Yes, and it's the changes to the budgetary determination of taxes. [[Member of the Okleštěk: Yes, as I said in the introduction. Thank you, Madam Vice-President.]] Yes. I was just checking with your application, and there you were talking about county towns, so let's leave it this way. [[We'll leave it as a global.]] Yes, thank you. Mrs Jana Pastuchová will now appear and prepare Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová. Please, your five minutes, Madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-10-ps2021-053-06-000-000.u34	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, I don't know how many times my colleague, through you, Patrik Nacher, has played his point, so I have done it for the fifth time today, and it is a point of the current situation at the employment office. But I would focus today, I will not repeat what I mentioned here in my previous four performances, when I wanted to place this point, but I would like to respond to the media now. My colleague Aleš Juchelka mentioned this in his performance, but you're here from the coalition to warn us that we're supposed to deal with this during the interpelations. I would like to deal with this during the interpellations, but yesterday, by the inauguration of the President, there were no interpelations because she was not a House. Next week or next week won't be for a long, long time, so I'd like to know, because I wasn't really laughing about the article and his reading. We in the Committee on Social Policy know that Mr Trpkoš is now Mr Trpkoš, who works very, very - what would I call it? - sometimes arrogantly towards us, how everything is watered by the sun and everything about IT works. And now I'm gonna read that the Department of Labour and Social Affairs has a big scandal on its hands. Millions of crowns for children's contributions, humanitarian benefits or contributions for Ukrajinec have been stolen by people. The Rezort launched an electronic system that was supposed to handle the request without human intervention, but did not reveal fraud and paid off millions illegally according to the employees of the employment office. And this was interesting to me: And when officials called on the director - I suppose it was Director Trpkoš, but I don't know, it doesn't say - to shut down the system because of mistakes, he left the application saving tens of millions and the millions abused are only a fraction. Officials knew about the problem last May, the system wasn't turned off until now. The police are interested in cases. I read on the pages of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs of 7. - this is from 2. 3. - so the minister said, 7. 3. he has issued that checks will be made where accommodation providers for a solidarity benefit, which concerns these benefits, will have to come to the employment office in person. So I think the system is falling because I think it wasn't perfect, and they're going to have to prove that the Ukrainian refugees are staying. I am struck by the fact that Director Trpkoš told us with great glory on the Committee on Social Policy how the barometer was created, which examines the satisfaction of employees at the employment offices. I think he should pull himself together and go see the employment offices, and now he's running on Facebook, or it's also on the pages of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs that there's another survey - satisfaction with the course of dealing with benefits at the employment offices. I don't know if the Department of Labour and Social Affairs is reading the media. I read them, and there's not much praise. I asked because there's a phone number that the Labor Office employees are calling from. I think that the employees of the Labor Office are really too busy to find out - probably it's a call center - satisfaction is now a little out of touch with what we read in the media, and they should actually deal with the system being really set up to help everyone with today's workload. So I would like to place a new point in the current situation at the Labour Office in relation to the IT issue. And I would like to place him, please, on the basis of the fixed points of today's meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-10-ps2021-053-06-000-000.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a good morning, honourable Members of the Government, and I shall note this point. Since I'm taking over the meeting, just for the record, I'm going to ask: "Today, after the fixed points"? [[Yes.]] Thank you. Next, Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová, with the topic of Czech Post, is duly applied to the agenda of the meeting. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-10-ps2021-053-06-000-000.u36	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, I'm sure you have noticed that the ANO movement has called an emergency meeting with one point, namely the Czech Post. Unfortunately, the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Markéta Pekarová, gave Adamová 30 minutes for this extraordinary meeting, where I had the opportunity to express myself on behalf of the ANO movement practically before the approval of the programme, and he gave me the privilege to do so, and I appreciate that, the Minister of the Interior, Vít Rakušan. I very much think that the process is a non-standard one on her part. If I compared it to the other meetings, I put an hour in there, and I don't understand that the Czech Post, if I looked at it with some optics, it would be 30 minutes. I had already announced at that time that if the meeting was interrupted or the programme was not approved, that I would require it to be included on Friday at the meeting, because, as we have announced for a longer time that the Czech Post was not well, this was confirmed at the moment. The Minister of Interior came forward, went to a press conference before the extraordinary meeting, where he announced that the Czech Post would most likely go to insolvency. Once again, Interior Minister Vít Rakušan, when he went into office, said how prepared he was as Home Secretary, all the members of the government were saying what their plan was to change, how they were going to fix everything. Again, these two figures are clear: 2021 loss of Czech Post 600 million, 2022 under the leadership of the Interior Minister Vít Rakušan losing 1.4 billion crowns. I think it speaks for itself, and I think that the Minister should answer for it here - he absolutely cannot handle it and it is very unfair to all the employees who are there today about 25 000, towards the delivery companies, to those who work on the counters, because they do not know what will happen to them in the future, because the Minister of the Interior has clearly said that there will be redundancies. So not only do we have one of the highest inflations here, or do we have - if we look at it with a pan-European scale, average inflation within the EU is 8%, so according to today's figures it is around 17 percent, and everyone will be beaten for it in quotation marks for the fact that the government absolutely cannot handle it. The Minister of the Interior should be here today in the Chamber of Deputies and should therefore say where the Czech Post will be heading for the future. He has not been able to choose the director of the Czech Post, he has selected it since October. 11 candidates applied for the tender, and he finally named the person who didn't even apply for the tender. I think that - and I have to repeat this again, because I am surprised that at this moment the Union of Cities and Communities, the Association of Local Authorities, the Association of Regions, is not responding, because if we have learned this week that there will be another 300 branches of Czech Post, because there is a proposal from the Czech Telecommunications Office and there is, of course, a proposal through the Czech Post. The Czech Post wants to come up with such a proposal that, for example, the Czech Post would only be open for two days a week, as is probably the case at the offices when we have office hours. [[10.40 hours]] But I'm saying again that the office is there for the citizens, not the citizen of the office, and the office hours don't exist, okay? The Bureau is supposed to be open to citizens every day. It must be the same for the future within the Czech Post. These are great ideas, but again I say that the Czech Post is a state enterprise, the Czech Post is here a service for citizens and must ensure that the Minister of the Interior is here today, so I wonder if the Minister of the Interior will be here today and if this House has this point, which is a serious point - I say again, touches 25 000 employees, but also affects citizens, because many citizens today do not have a properly delivered mail. Mr Vice-President, I would therefore like to ask you to write down that I would like to include an YES point in the Czech Post movement as the first item in today's meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-10-ps2021-053-06-000-000.u37	Thank you. I will read the apologies: today, for health reasons, Mr Michal Kohajda apologizes throughout the day, and from 11.30 without giving any reason to apologize to Mrs Martina Ochodnická. Next up, Mr Milan Feranec will appear and Mrs Zuzana Ožanová will prepare herself. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-10-ps2021-053-06-000-000.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to place a new item on the agenda. I think it is very, but really very important, and that is the point of abolishing the state of legislative emergency. I just want to remind you that the state of legislative emergency has been declared president of House 20. 2. 2023 by its decision number 53 and was declared for the period from 20. 2. to 22. 3. 2023, so it's still taking time. We have said here several times that we think that the conditions for declaring a state of legislative emergency have not been met, that constitutional rules and rules of procedure have not been fulfilled. However, the House confirmed the duration of the state of legislative emergency, despite the fact that no Members were allowed to speak in the debate, no representatives of the strongest parliamentary club in the House. We were not allowed to present the club's position; it was not possible for arguments to be made about the absence of a legislative emergency by speakers with preferential rights. It happened, the House law pushed through several violations, or the coalition pushed through, even though the Rules of Procedure of the House had been broken several times. Then the law went to the Senate, where, of course, it ended in a predictable way, because the party discipline of the senators won. I was fascinated by how the senators advocated the approval of the law, where they said: We agree with the substance of the matter and do not want to deal with constitutionality or compliance with the law. Yeah, but where did the Senate's password get lost as a democracy insurance policy, the Senate as a guardian of constitutionality? I don't think that's true anymore. However, why do I propose that we abolish this state of affairs today? Because the situation continues, there are some legal consequences, and I would like to have someone from the coalition's representatives explain to me why there is a need for a legislative emergency to continue, because otherwise I can think that this is so that, theoretically, the government can submit another bill, another - I say theoretically - or in order to create pressure on the President, because, by the way, if he vetoes this law, there is a deadline for a law hearing in the House, that cannot be less than 10 days. This does not apply in a state of legislative emergency. So I'm just asking if the real purpose of the emergency is to put some pressure on the President. Yesterday, there was inauguration, and there were a lot of flamboyant words, as new times happen, as decency returns, compliance, compliance with the law. So let's start this new era by abolishing the state of legislative emergency, because, as the New Testament says, "according to their fruits you will recognize them" - not words, but actions, and if you can't harvest grapes from thorns and you can't harvest figs from thorns, then you can't make a coherent society out of the rolling opposition, unite society. So I repeat again, item Cancellation of the state of legislative emergency, and I propose to include it as the first item in today's negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-10-ps2021-053-06-000-000.u39	Thank you. If I have made a good point, Mr. Ambassador, are you suggesting this as a first point today? Okay, thank you. Mrs Zuzana Ožanová will be next on the agenda and Mrs Berenika Peštová will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-10-ps2021-053-06-000-000.u40	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope to fit in in one minute. My proposal for a point is disrespecting Art. 26 Constitutions. I propose that we place the first point in today's negotiations. I would like to quote Art. 26 Constitutions: "Members and senators shall carry out their mandate in person in accordance with their promise and shall not be bound by any orders." Guys, why am I quoting this article? Last week, he was ignored by the House President. It has been said that many members of the opposition are speaking out, and they will therefore no longer be able to make proposals. I understand that, for example, the ANO club has 71 Members and another club has 4 Members, that there are many of us, I know that, but that does not mean that we must not carry out our mandate, and we cannot be silenced by the word "there are many of you, I will not give you a word, you cannot make proposals". I believe that I was elected on some candidate list, but even if I left the club with exaggeration, I am still a Member, and I still have rights. These rights were one of us, so I was not among them, denied, and I believe that this should no longer be the case. Therefore, I propose a point, once again, a lack of respect for Art. 26 Constitutions. And please, it's really not our fault there's a lot of us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-10-ps2021-053-06-000-000.u41	Thank you, I noted the point. The application says you want him to be the first item today, thank you. Mrs Berenika Peštová will be next on the agenda, and Mrs Karla Maříková will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-10-ps2021-053-06-000-000.u42	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to place a point that bears the name Applies to ODS the same laws? There's one thing that leads me to this point. I'm being approached by citizens, and it's about a video that's currently on social media. This video was made by Mr. Pavel Novotný, Mayor of Řeporyj. He's actually the top official of the state administration, he's a public figure, and I don't think such a video has anything to do with social media. [[10.50 hours]] In this video, the Czech nation is insulting, insulting our people. And just to show you, I quote, "People like you were throwing themselves off a cliff in Sparta. You're parasites, I'd send you to war. Čech are an ungrateful nation, Čech are plebs, Czech pigs. The Čech would need war. Drive you out of the house, kill a kid, cut a woman's throat. A nation of ungrateful, squealing pigs." The others here are unquoteable. This video and it doesn't matter, there are three, running on social media. Citizens tell me that these videos were sent to both the Prime Minister and the Home Secretary - without response. And in my case, I think that's a criminal complaint. But most importantly, the ODS should stand up to it here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-10-ps2021-053-06-000-000.u43	Thank you. I want to ask you, for the record, I'm sorry, which point today, after the fixed ones? [[The Member has nodded.]] Thank you. Mrs Karla Maříková will be next to appear and Mr Lubomír Brož will be ready, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-10-ps2021-053-06-000-000.u44	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would also like to propose a new point called the batch breaker and I would like to place it on fixed points. There was information in the press that there was a huge scandal at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. In particular, the Young Front states today that there should have been a large amount of money stolen for children, humanitarian benefits or benefits for Ukrajinec. The repository launched an electronic system that was supposed to deal with the request without human intervention, but did not reveal fraud and paid off millions illegally according to the workers of the employment office. And when officials called on the director to shut down the system because of the mistakes, he left the application saving tens of millions and the used millions are only a fraction. Officials already knew about the problem last May, but the system wasn't turned off until now. And what kind of problem was that? Applications for people's entitlement to benefits could not be linked to other databases, where they would find out if people were entitled to money at all. Almost a year ago, the Labour Offices warned that applications for benefits to Ukrajinec cannot tell whether these people are really in the Czech Republic or asking for help via the Internet from Ukraine. This is also the case with Ukraine, whose strange movements in the account were pointed out by one of the Czech banks. The woman landed more than CZK 1.3 million in her account as a contribution to solidarity households. People from Ukraine applied for money. The money was paid out by 11 employment offices across the country, all in one account, to which the Ukrainian Ukrajinka from Zlín had access. According to her statement, she sent the money to Ukraine after the bus drivers. With the system came the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the authorities were only users. The workers of the Labour Office also pointed out that, for example, for contributions to solidarity households for Ukrajinec accommodation, the official had no opportunity to intervene because the contribution was completely processed by the robot. At present, state funds leaks are in the order of millions. The principles of financial control are not respected, which implies that the State is not a good economic operator with its funds. And I would therefore like to know that we are being answered here, what kind of control mechanisms of everyone, I repeat, all digitized doses are and how they are respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-10-ps2021-053-06-000-000.u45	I thank you, too, and the inclusion of this point is after the fixed points today. Thank you. Mr Jan Volný is next on the agenda, and then Mrs Marie Pošarová is next on the agenda. Mr. Jan Volný... I don't see him, so I'll put him at the end of my application. I will ask Mrs Marie Pošarová, Mr Vladimír Zlínský will prepare. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-10-ps2021-053-06-000-000.u46	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to place a new point called Evaluation of the current situation in the energy market and the new setting of price ceilings. In recent days and weeks, we have seen a decline in, say, wholesale or exchange prices of natural gas and electricity. Some companies in our country, such as Innogy or E.ON, respond by reducing gas and power electricity prices for a certain part of customers, which is undoubtedly a good thing. What is no longer good is the government's zero response to this situation. It is evident that the time has come, on the basis of the specific negotiations of those energy suppliers, for a significant reduction in government gas and electricity price ceilings, which would help our households and companies significantly at present. The second necessary step to be taken by the government is to re-evaluate the adjustment of the level of financial compensation to energy suppliers, which are now made up of the difference between the price ceiling and the price actually charged by these suppliers. It costs taxpayers tens of billions of crowns. There is no relevant reason to do so. A clear signal for this is the behaviour of energy suppliers, and they certainly do this not only out of goodwill and social considerations, but because they can afford it economically. This is a key issue in the economy of households, companies and the state, and the government is obliged to evaluate the situation on an ongoing basis. After all, she promised it herself in her debates on price ceilings. In the current situation, it is not necessary to keep the price ceilings as high as they are, and unbearably burden citizens and companies. I therefore propose to include this point as the third point in today's negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-10-ps2021-053-06-000-000.u47	I thank you, too, and as the last one on the agenda, Mr Vladimír Zlínský is here. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-10-ps2021-053-06-000-000.u48	vážený President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose to include a new item in the programme and it should be a discussion on the Dramatic decline in the number of children born in the Czech Republic in 2022, the causes, consequences and conclusion and measures. So I would point out in advance that this speech will once again be slightly controversial. I hope I can't reach the level of Mr. Greek mayor. I am based on an article by Dr. Tomáš Fürst, published by 6. 2. 2023 on the inFact server called Dramatic decline in birth rate. Dr. Tomáš Fürst is a university teacher at Palacký University in Olomouc and a graduate of the Faculty of Mathematics and Physics in Prague and deals with mathematical modelling. In the first nine months of 2022, 10 percent less children were born than in the previous four years. The figures are still normal in December 2021, but already in January 2022 almost 10% decrease is seen. Children born at the beginning of January had to be conceived sometime at the end of April 2021, i.e. the causes of the decline must be searched for something that occurred in the spring of 2021. The same picture appears abroad. And now this is extremely interesting: it appears in Sweden, Denmark, Norway, Finland, Germany, Switzerland, but we do not see this picture in the countries of southern Europe, like Italy or France. Moreover, it is extremely disturbing that even after nine months we do not see any signs of a return to normal in our country or abroad. So far, we haven't got the results for the last three months of 2022, which will now be in March 2023. Thank God this value isn't even falling yet. The age of future parents was therefore inoculated just during May 2021 and beyond. Data from other countries show exactly the same timeline. The drop in birth rate occurs about nine months after the start of vaccination with the age of the parents. There are no other possible causes of this phenomenon to be mentioned. Citizens in developed countries could react by mass joint behaviour to the covid pandemic, possible concerns about the consequences of vaccination, or other unknown social or natural phenomena. For example, I can think of another mutation variant of the SARS-CoV-2 covide or other pathogenic influence. [[11.00 hours]] A 10% drop in the number of children born in the Czech Republic represents a problem that threatens the future of our society, and therefore I call you colleagues to discuss this issue, which I consider extremely important. I consider it desirable that we demand, as legislators and elected representatives of the people, transparency, i.e. transparent - without concealment and confusion - an examination of this phenomenon through competent authorities, which so far remain silent as most mainstream media, I note, in addition to Diary N, which has commented on this, and the magazine Echo 24. If the cause can be identified, it is necessary to clearly describe its parameters, analyse the consequences and draw appropriate conclusions from this, so that similar situations do not recur or take measures that minimise the consequences of the cause. Furthermore, we need to think about how to increase the birth rate of our population, whatever the cause and development of this decline. Just seeing the decline of natality, i.e. birth rate, will lead to an exponential decline in the number of individuals of the indigenous population over several generations with all the consequences of this. Mr President, I would demand or would like to place this on a fixed basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-10-ps2021-053-06-000-000.u49	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have exhausted all the proposals for adapting today's programme and all the requests have been read. I'll call my colleagues from the lobby to take part in the negotiations on the adjustments to today's programme. I will read the apologies: today from 11.30 for family reasons, Mrs Martina Ochodnická apologizes. I've registered a request for your check-out, so I'm going to check you all out and ask you to sign up with your cards. Mr. Marek Benda is reporting with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-10-ps2021-053-06-000-000.u50	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, given that this morning it has been, I do not want to say obstructive, that is a bad word, but let us say that it creates some space for an agreement, so on behalf of coalition clubs, I veto the inclusion of all new points so that we no longer abstain from voting and do something else in the twelve.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-10-ps2021-053-06-000-000.u51	I, Mr President, would ask you to say on behalf of which clubs to speak on which behalf.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-10-ps2021-053-06-000-000.u52	ODS, TOP 09, KDU-ČSL, Pirates, STAN. We're vetoing all new points. Of course, the points that are already at the meeting are being put to the vote, that's for sure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-10-ps2021-053-06-000-000.u53	Yes, it's just for the record that the clubs veto. In view of this, we will only vote on the pre-classification or other inclusion of the items on the agenda. The first proposal that can be put to the vote is the proposal made by President Michálek. It is the number of paragraph 95, the House press 249, the Public Procurement Act, as the second item of today's negotiations. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of this proposed adjustment of the programme? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 104, 146 Members and Members signed in, 143, against no one. This proposal has been approved. Another point that is vouchsafed is from Mrs Pokorná Jermanová, it is the number of paragraph 83, the House's 294 press, the radio and television charges, as the first point of today's negotiations. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 105, with 146 Members registered, for 68, against 49. This proposal has not been agreed with. Another proposal is from Mr Aleš Juchelka, point 108, House press 125, annual report by Czech Television for 2020, today firmly at 11.40. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 106, 148 Members of Parliament have entered, in favour of proposal 70, against 35. This proposal has not been agreed with. The next proposal is also from Mr Aleš Juchelka, the number of point 109, the House press 188, the annual report by Czech Television in 2021, today firmly at 11.40. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 107, 149 Members and Members have entered, in favour of proposal 71, against 19. This proposal was rejected. And everything else is new points that have been vetoed. Just for the record, let me ask you, did we vote on all the proposals as they were put forward? No one's resisting. I will read the apologies: today, at 11 o'clock for health reasons, Mr Jaroslav Faltýnek apologizes. So we will now continue as approved and amended today's programme. I'm opening the first point.
