ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u1	Confirmation of the duration of the legislative emergency
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u2	Madam President, my dear fellow Members, thank you for the floor. I would like to start by saying one thing about the procedure, so that we avoid unnecessary discussions or misunderstood during today's day. As has already been said by the President, the meeting was convened in accordance with Rule 99 of the Rules of Procedure, which means that the whole of Section 53 of the Rules of Procedure does not apply. To explain. This means that we will not vote on a possible meeting and vote after 19 or 21 or 24 hours at all, we are in the regime of Section 90 and this meeting is ongoing. So it's just to explain, so we don't argue here later whether the meeting should be suspended at 19 or 21 o'clock. That's what it's all about. And if I have entered into a legislative emergency debate, allow me only a brief statement and perhaps an explanation of what is mistakenly being heard in public space and in the media when many or even the public are asking whether it is justified to discuss the bill on the regulation of extraordinary valorisation in a legislative emergency. So let's just review what's been going on in the past few weeks. The government, and it's traceable from public sources, never questioned the fact that in 2023 it would have to proceed to extraordinary valorisation. That was never called into question. However, the government worked with the assumptions, with the prediction issued by the central bank - the Czech National Bank, which was also discussed by representatives of the National Economic Council of the Government, that the extraordinary valorisation would cost around CZK 15 billion, in the blackest assumptions around CZK 20 billion. Even from the mouth of the Minister of Finance, it was made clear that the state register was ready to deal with this item. It was also announced in advance that, of course, the state budget was not something that could not be adjusted in the context of inflation developments, and so on, during the financial year. February 10th - I repeat, it is important because very often it causes misunderstood - February 10th on Friday, I remember it very well because the Vice Prime Minister got the numbers of the Czech Statistical Office on the table here, sitting behind me, and I followed him when he saw the numbers and his skin color began to change dramatically and I began to worry about his health, so I understood that the numbers were far from corresponding to what was predicted by all the institutions, that is, when we convert it to those numbers, there was an increase in inflation, and so, as the Czech Statistical Office said on February 10th, by 8.6 percentage points. So dramatically more than was supposed to be. [[10.10 hours]] Well, because of this number, this figure also depends on the calculation of extraordinary valorization by law, so of course the load suddenly wasn't 15 billion, but it was 34.8 or 38.4 billion, it's not important now. Dramatically more. And from this point on, from this clear, Czech statistical office communicated data, all the following steps are taken by the government coalition, government as a whole, Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. And since it is made clear once again that the government must decide, within 50 days of the government's regulation, on the extraordinary valuation and its size, within 50 days of the end of the month when this leap disturbance in inflation occurred, or since 31 January, it was also clear that the law must be effective by 22 March at the latest, that is, published in the Collection of Laws. That is why the government agreed at the moment when the representatives of the opposition with whom this was discussed - once again it is not true that they were not questioned, they were questioned - they clearly stated that they would not agree to discuss this draft regime § 90, when theoretically it would be manageable, and they had already announced in advance all possible obstructions, so the government really had nothing left but to use this extreme instrument, no one was happy about it, but this extreme instrument, that is, Section 99 and the discussion of the proposal in a state of legislative emergency. It is based on the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 1 March 2011, when, in a similar case, it was clearly stated that the conditions for examining a proposal in a state of legislative emergency were met, as defined by the Constitutional Court, because the rules of procedure clearly state in Section 99 that laws in a state of legislative emergency could be discussed if - I quote - the State is facing significant economic damage. And it's not just 19.4 billion tied to valorization on July 1st of this year. Of course, it has a convention for all other valorizations, and we come to the sum of CZK 100 billion. And I firmly hope that no matter what political club it belongs to, no one will doubt that there is serious economic damage. That is why the government has taken action in another regime not because of the opposition, so that we can fulfil the condition on 22 March, to discuss the state of legislative emergency. That is why I have taken the liberty of explaining clearly, perhaps clearly, all the reasons that led to this, Minister Jurečka and the government, and that is why I would ask you to support the state of legislative emergency, so that this does not go beyond debate, so that we do not actually get into an agreement. If we are in a state of legislative emergency, we are to act in a state of legislative emergency, or within a reasonable time frame, and I am not saying that we must vote in an hour, but in some reasonable time frame, because then we will truly, as legislators, honor what is written in the draft of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u3	I will also specify that the meeting is convened pursuant to § 51 para. 4, however, we are in the procedure of Section 99 of the Rules of Procedure and Article 53 (1) of the Rules of Procedure is excluded. 1. Now, with a point of fact, she wants to respond to this speech by Mrs Berenika Peštová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u4	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I, of course, by being open to debate, so I made a point of fact. I was impressed by your speech, Mr President, when you said that the Prime Minister was distraught when he saw the amount, or the Vice Prime Minister was distraught. I'm surprised he didn't freak out when he had that zero in his budget. I'd be a pain in the ass again. That he's been distraught to an ex-post. That's one thing. I am known for, of course, ensuring that the legislative procedure is correct, because, as you know very well, I have been preparing the legislation for eight years. So why, in essence, this year, you have not done the legislation properly so that this legislation will be valid from 1. 1. 2024? Why are you pushing this through a legislative emergency? And the next thing I know, they're gonna be asking questions about you. When you say about our seniors causing economic damage, it's like... Am I to understand that those seniors who have the pension all the time haven't caused the economic damage yet? It's going to cause them to become the valorization that's here because of this government of 17.5 percent, and that law was supposed to protect them from the fact that we didn't expect this situation to happen, that's a fact, but it wasn't supposed to be this way that you're going to drive out the inflation and that we're going to get where we're going!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u5	Another point of fact is made by Mr Vondráček, followed by Mrs Ožanová. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u6	Madam President, thank you for the floor. I am lightly surprised that the debate is open, so it begins earlier. It's just, I was missing something there, Mr President, because we've dealt with the state of legislative emergency here more times and always, like, in the pandemic law, or whatever it was, taxing unexpected income, there's always been someone from the coalition - or what we did in the state of legislative emergency? Windfall tax? Pandemak once and then some tax laws too. [[The debate of the Members standing around the speaker's desk.]] Maybe a splash. I apologize to those who don't hear the Minister talking to me. It's just that President Benda always stepped up and said he wasn't happy about it, but that it was the last time. You also said you weren't happy about it, but you forgot to add that it was the last time, because I was missing it. You say that all the time. You should be consistent about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u7	Another point of fact is made by Mrs Ožanová and followed by Mr Juchelka. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Dear members of the government, thank you for having a little more of you today. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a real problem with this. I want to respond to my colleague Marek the Výborný, through the President. I have a problem with the justification for a legislative emergency. It is true that I will look at this more closely in my speech, but it is simply absurd to say that legal valorisation causes economic damage. When I was getting ready, the government equation I'm allowed to tell - a pensioner equals economic damage - is really absurd. Please do not justify your incompetence in this way and do not say that this is a legislative emergency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u9	Mr Juchelka, with a factual remark, followed by Mr Foldyna.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u10	Thank you very much, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I would rather expect that this state of legislative emergency will be defended by one of the lawyers who is in the government, such as the outgoing Minister of Justice Blažek, who will give us his opinion on this, or Minister Šalamoun, Šalomoun, who is on the Government's Legislative Council, and I am also interested, of course, in the many lawyers sitting in the benches of the government coalition. Here we have Mrs Decroix, through Madam President, Mr Haas, these are all renowned lawyers, and I wonder if they are really comfortable with the fact that we will be here this very serious law, which, and that is the second legislative thing that is really also on the water, they will defend, and how they will defend it so that we can respond to it. And of course, the President of the Club Excellent, by your means, is very brave that, as an educator here, he is defending a state of legislative emergency, but I think it should be a matter of lawyers. Therefore, I ask too much that the Minister, one as the other, speak here and tell us why this is happening here in a state of legislative emergency when the government had, like, six months, four months to change the valorisation mechanism, and it could have gone through the classic legislative process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u11	Mr Foldyna, with a point of fact. Mr Okleštěk is following. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u12	Thank you, Madam President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, one day your children will be ashamed that you've just been here. Believe me, they'll be ashamed, because if you think that valorizing old-age pensions is a threat to this republic, that it's a threat to human rights or that it's a threat to some kind of economic damage, then you're very wrong. You guys just made up that you're gonna accept the fact that you're stealing from a Czech pensioner under the prose of these things today in a completely different legislative process. It's just trivial what's going on in this House. And I believe that someday your children will judge you for this!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u13	Mr Okleštěk with a factual remark. Following is Mr. Výborný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u14	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear members of the government, colleagues, I did not intend to perform at all. You know I'm saving up my shows because I think it should only be performed when it hasn't been said. But it's from the government coalition that I can still hear the support of these topics over and over again, so I have to join it. A state of legislative emergency. It sounds pretty clear. Of course, I'm also ready to perform at the same point of my own. But since Mr. Výborný has started the debate here, I ask: where do you keep those officials from the Office of the Government, where do you have those colleagues and experts at the ministries? When you were in opposition, you said you had x's ready for each position. But there were already clear signs in November that high inflation was approaching. Didn't any of you guys even notice that something was going on? You were surprised, and the members of the government were distraught when they learned the numbers from the statistical office. I do not think that the vast majority of the Members were lost at all because they knew that. Only the government didn't see the information. Mr Stanjura told Václav Moravec that the budget could handle it. Then what are you afraid of? You want to beg the elderly, so you planned it somehow? Here's the legitimate expectations of seniors that they'll be encouraged to get some crown. You dig ditches between seniors and younger ones. Do you realize what you're doing here? You think those seniors, if they have those - thank you, I'll be back. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u15	Now, Mr Výborný with a point of fact, followed by Mr Brázdil.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u16	Thank you for the floor. I consider it polite to answer the questions raised by Mrs Peštová, by you, Madam President. I tried to explain why not in December, but why after February 10th. It sounded here, I repeat. What else should the government hear from before the central bank predictions? That was about your government, every government. So I think it's pretty obvious. What I want to emphasize. Marian Jurečka, the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, has been talking about the need to adjust the mechanism and it will be part of the discussed pension reform. But now we're talking about extraordinary valorization in the month of July. Then I would ask very much - and this again concerns Mrs Peštová, but also others. Please, no one said here, and it didn't come from my mouth that pensioners, seniors, would cause serious economic damage. Here's the shortcut that I have to make clear is something that fits exactly with the kind of debate you're having here. There was no such thing. The annualization will be, the seniors will receive an average increase of CZK 770 and the average pension will reach over CZK 20,000. In relation to the average gross wage, we get to 20 percent. Which, considering the fact that pensions are unpaid, the difference... 50 per cent, I apologize - 50 per cent of the average gross wage and average pension. Which, considering the fact that pensions are not taxed - and we are talking about gross wages - is, of course, well above the 50 percent. So please don't say that someone's begging the elderly or that they're causing serious economic damage. It's not like that, we're gonna raise our pensions. We just want to act like we promised. That means, as a responsible caretaker. Thank you for your attention. Yeah, and, uh, sorry, one thing--
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u17	You need to sign up again. Following is Mr Brázdil with a factual remark. Minister Jurečka will prepare himself with the facts. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u18	Thank you, Madam President, for the floor. I would like to respond in my de facto to a colleague of the Výborný, through you. Mr. Colleague, you were the first to come here. We've got a long gig ahead of us. You've made so many mistakes, you're talking about us being in a legislative emergency. Well, we're not. We just have to confirm it, we're not yet. [[Objection from the diaper that we are.]] Okay. I don't think we are. We're just here to confirm it. Another thing I'd like to say. Then you made a lot of mistakes in the fact that the Prime Minister was fixing you in those sections. I thought I said that right. You made mistakes. Now you're talking about the pensioners getting some less money. Well, they won't. We'll make sure they get what they get. You guys are talking like everything's already done. Well, nothing's done. It's gonna be long. We're gonna try to get the elderly what they're supposed to get. And for me, starting out like this was unfortunate. Let's fix this and put it the way it's supposed to be. Just as Madam President corrected you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u19	I'm happy to fix you too, Mr. Ambassador. We are a legislative emergency. Now we are discussing whether the Chamber of Deputies will confirm it, so let us be correct. The following is Minister Jurečka, and Mrs Schillerová will be prepared. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u20	Thank you. Good morning, Madam President, fellow Members. I initially expected to sum up all the serious reasons why we are presenting this proposal here, including the justification for the state of legislative emergency. For your opponents: Please pay attention to paragraph 11 of this proposal. It's 22 pages, it's not that long. So on page 13 in paragraph 11, there is a clear reason why we are presenting this proposal in a state of legislative emergency, with reference to the earlier findings of the Constitutional Court. It's clearly described there. Now, from the point of view of the matter, when it comes to impacts. It really is that if we don't make an adjustment to the valorisation mechanism, this means expenditure of CZK 34.4 billion this year. In the next year and all the other 58.8 billion crowns, which will always be valorized at some rate depending on the future's decision. It becomes a permanent mandatorial expense. This is where the kids fell. Strong emotions, whether the kids thank us or not. I think we really need to look at the balance of intergenerational solidarity, because it's those kids who are funding the pension system these days. They'll also finance it if we borrow it, including interest. So it is really necessary to look at the optics really, as the farmer sees it not only through the optics of this year's budget, but also through the budget of the next 5, 10, 15, 20 years. That's what I think is crucial. Whether or not we're gonna be here or not, someone's gonna say from the diaper. The responsible policy is that regardless of whether I'm here or not, I'm supposed to look at it with responsibility for future generations. I'm very happy to explain all the other things in detail in my main performance, which I'm going to have here. I'm duly logged in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u21	Thank you for keeping time. Now, then, President Schillerová, with a point of fact. Following is Mrs Oulehlová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u22	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. In the meantime, the main reason I wanted to perform, since the President is the Excellent Speaker of the Government, but that has already been healed by Vice Prime Minister Jurečka. I will also have the main performance and there I will also discuss the reasons why I think it is not even eligible for approval in a state of legislative emergency, nor (?) the reasons why we don't agree with the novel. Now I only have a very short time, so I'm going to use it to call on a five-calice to call on the government to withdraw the proposal. Pull him back while there's still time. I thought it would require an amendment to the State Budget Act. On Sunday, on the Czech Television discussion programme, I learned from Minister Stanjura that he would find the money in the budget. Thus the basic problem is eliminated. So I don't see what the economic damage is. Come to the negotiating table and talk about the valuation scheme, which would have been effective since 1 January 2024, as we did last year in the valuation of payments for state insured persons. You will avoid a huge shame, which is likely to end up in the Constitutional Court. If they cancel, you'll have to pay the money, including interest, and then you'll have to consider whether you even have the right to rule this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u23	Mrs Oulehlová, Mr Hrnčíř follows. All factual, which so far is fifteen. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u24	Hello, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. In fact, we are here to approve a state of legislative emergency, on the grounds that if pensions are validated, we are at risk of major economic damage. I would just like to ask you when you vote, think about it, or remember that you are actually deciding the fates of your parents, grandparents, neighbors, people who built this country. It's actually the last generation, when we talk 80 plus, where everyone worked, they all went into the system, they took care of us. Thanks to them, we're where we are. Let us not turn them against the young now, for that is not the case. The young ones, us, or the young ones, are here because those who receive pensions today took care of us. And one more thing. Don't forget, you're gonna run these guys into the labor authorities, and in the finals, it could cost even more than if we acted rationally now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u25	Mr Hrnčíř with a point of fact, Mr Nacher will be prepared. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u26	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I'm just gonna start off with a quote like that. "I do not want to continue the trend established by the current government, when the law has been circumvented, and at the same time the Constitutional Court's finding, which clearly defined the conditions of legislative emergency. For me, the rule of law is not just a word." So much Markéta Pekarová Adamová November 24, 2021. Madam President Pekarová Adamová, I took the liberty of quoting your words when you opposed the announcement of a state of legislative emergency by the last government. You objected to the violation of legislation and the distortion of the rule of law. So I'm asking you which of the legal conditions you believe meets the state of legislative emergency you declared last week. I remind you that this must be a situation where fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens are fundamentally threatened, a situation where the security of the state is fundamentally threatened or when the State is threatened with significant economic damage, perhaps due to natural disasters. It is absolutely absurd that a year and a quarter ago you fought so hard to comply with legislation, and today you are making a calendar out of it. And I just want to say that comparing a retired person to natural disasters or something like that is a total nonsense. These are the people who built this country that we owe to being here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u27	I'll refer you to § 60 para. 1 where the factual point is to respond to the debate, which yours did not. So I point out that we also comply with this paragraph of our Rules of Procedure. Mr Nacher, followed by Mrs Ožanová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, I will respond to a colleague of Marek the Výborný, who said that it was not until February that the government learned about the high inflation. Well, I'd like to say that's not true. I was just checking and looking at all the predictions that have been here since October, November, December, Czech National Bank, Ministry of Finance. All these predictions were between, say, 10-16 percent a year. So the predictions were predicting that inflation would be high. The fact that there would still be a significant leap in January due to the rise in energy prices was clear to all. That's what we've been talking about. So the fact that inflation would go up in January was clear. I even have proof of that. When I was filming my show The two meters you like so much, you quote it here sometimes, so I found the interview of Prime Minister Petr Fiala in Lightning.cz , which he said in November - he said in November - that you have some basis from NERV that changes the valorisation mechanism without changing the principle of valorization, but it changes the mechanism. You've had it there since November. And my basic question is - so we wouldn't have to deal with the legislative emergency - why didn't you bring it up in November, December, maybe early January? That's the basic thing. I'm not questioning the need to open up a debate about the valorisation mechanism. I doubt you're doing this in a state of legislative emergency. And I'll answer that because it was a rhetorical question. Well, because there were presidential elections. You just didn't want to open it. There isn't much after the presidential election, which is why there is a state of legislative emergency. It's that simple.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u29	Mrs Ožanová, with a point of fact, followed by Mrs Peštová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Dear remaining, I presume, three brave ministers who have endured yet, I will respond in my essence to a colleague of the Excellent and the Minister. There was some criticism that we were shorthanding the legislative emergency. I would like to quote exactly as the Minister has already said, as it sounds in the bill proposal, because of course I have it ready. "The reasons for this exceptional procedure are seen in particular in the considerable economic damage that the State faces without the adoption of the bill." I'm sorry, what else is there to say other than that: legal valorisation is economic damage? Excuse me, this is a perfectly logical deduction here from this sentence of yours. So, I'm sorry, I'm still going to say that this is absurd and that you consider, with exaggeration, pensioners to be the economic damage of this state. As regards the balance between the generations referred to by the Minister. Have you ever asked seniors over the age of 80 how much they're retired? How is that balanced? There they normally work in standard professions have a pension of 13,000. Does any of you guys really think this is a lot? Do you think it is appropriate not to add to these pensioners? It is true that people who are retiring now have significantly larger pensions. But try to deal with generations of 80 plus. You're really separating them from society. Try to think about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u31	Mrs Peštová followed by Mr Skopeček. Please, you have the floor. Quiet down in the hall, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u32	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I would like to respond to Mr Excellent, through Madam President. When I was talking about the ordinary legislative process, I meant, of course, that you put it in an interdepartmental commentary procedure for two days, you put it there on the 15th and 17th, it was the end of February that you shortened the comment points that you had another exception again, another exception, so you don't have a processed impact study. So what are we talking about here? We're talking about some hypothetical numbers that fell out of the Department of Labour and Social Affairs, because the impact study, or what it's going to have impact on society, isn't. It's not processed. It's not processed. You have an exception from the Minister. But what I'm interested in is what Patrik Nacher here said, through Madam President, why didn't you put it into the inter-ministerial commentary procedure for a long time and you didn't put it there in September, in October, why you already knew, because you already knew the predictions, you knew that inflation would be, and even if it wasn't so high, it was precisely because, precautionaryly, by doing the legislation at the Ministry, I would have just had the legislation prepared by doing it already. You didn't do anything because you put zero in your budget, you knew there wasn't going to be any inflation, or you're going to cut it short, and now you're just timing it when it's coming. And you timed it after the election because you didn't want to pass the election. I understand that. It's a legitimate reason for you. But what I'm wondering is why the Department of Labour and Social Affairs, or the Ministry of Finance, hasn't started any negotiations, because, for example, when I look at the valorization of restitution, we have 7 billion, and there you haven't reduced anything, there you haven't shortened anything. You haven't even started any negotiations, that inflation is enormous, that it's... [[Time.]] ... as a proper caretaker, you disagree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u33	Vice-President Skopeček, followed by Mr Brabec.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u34	Thank you. Thank you for the floor. I also applied in response to Mr. Foldyna when he was performing. I understand we're gonna be here a long time. We're about to have a rather heated discussion. I'm not defending myself from her at all. Nevertheless, I would like - I am now thinking in a good way - Madam President, I would like to ask Mr Foldyna to forgive each other's sentences about whose children they will be ashamed of. It really doesn't belong here. I also approach the debate on pensions in the sense that I don't want my children to blame me for not having money for their pensions once because we didn't do anything about it at the time we were supposed to do anything about it. But I believe that all of us, whether we are from the SPD, from the Yes movement, from the People's Party, from the ODS, we are raising children as best we can, so that they don't be ashamed of us. Please don't use these sentences. It doesn't belong here. It reduces political culture. Let's keep this meeting from the beginning in some political culture boundaries that neither we nor any of our children will be ashamed of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u35	Mr. Brabec. Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u36	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Mr. Vice Prime Minister Jurečka said he'd be more extensive about it, so I thought President Výborný pulled a short match within the coalition to say it, because I have... [[Reactions in the O.R.]] Didn't you like the short match? What's so mean about that? But okay. Because he just had to get off with something that others are a little ashamed of. Because I believe that even within the coalition there are Members and Members who are ashamed of the form in which this standard is put forward. I think she said it already Berenika and others, so it scared me if we have the Minister of Finance, and before - in a state where Minister Stanjura would have previously been chairman of the ODS opposition club and this would have happened from our side, so he will be hanging here by the ceiling like zeppelin and he will just yell at us what kind of government it is that was unable to estimate at least the framework inflation. [[Let's hear it from the YES benches.]] For me I say, I think that the whole nation should be distraught from what kind of finance minister we have, which either out of ignorance, inability to estimate, or even from that calculation did not put a crown in the draft budget for extraordinary valorisation. That's what we're talking about here. And now it's flickering. I think many of you realize that this is undignified. The chairman of our club, Mrs. Alena Schillerová, made that clear. Don't risk the shame, take it back and let's talk about it, because it really can't end well. You want to rob a pensioner, and everyone sees it! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u37	Thank you for keeping time. Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová follows and Mrs Balaštíková will be prepared - with factual remarks. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u38	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, I would also like to respond through you to Mr Výborný, who practically says here that we are discussing something in a state of legislative emergency. I would just like to remind you that the state of legislative emergency has been proposed by the Government, which has been sent to the President of the Chamber of Deputies on 20 February. And I would like to point out that the state of the legislative emergency and the partial valorisation of pensions, or the pension insurance law, decided - not that the government met, that the 18 ministers met, that the 18 ministers, which we have historically the most, were discussing it in some way, so they decided per rollam. For the citizens of this Republic: they decided to send it by e-mail to agree with it. It's undignified, it's unbelievable, but unfortunately, that's how he acts and that's how this current government approaches these laws. And that's a fact. I would also like to stress what Mr Hrnčíř said here. On 24 November 2021, the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Markéta Pekarová, Adamová, declared that she did not want to continue the trend established by the current government when the law was being circumvented, while honoring the Constitutional Court's finding, which clearly defined the conditions for declaring a legislative emergency. You, Madam President, declared that there was a legislative emergency. We don't agree with him. And, Mr. Výborný, we're talking about the fact that there's no legislative emergency. There is no state of legislative emergency. This House must confirm it. Madame Chairman of our club asked you to touch it. [[Time.]] My time is up, but at this point, I dare -
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u39	I beg you to respect that there is a two-minute limit that has expired. Mrs Balaštíková, followed by President Výborný. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u40	Hello, colleagues and colleagues. I would also like to respond to a colleague of the Excellent, through Madam President. Mr. colleague, you said that none of you ever said that there would be any economic damage if there were to be a valuation. Your minister said so on the Social Policy Committee. Right after that, my colleagues from this committee took it on twitter, having fun with it. And I'm sorry, you're not telling the truth. For the next one. When we read the reasoning, the House press 392, where you actually refer to this here, I take it that the lawyer, the legal opinion, but don't be angry, you yourself accuse yourself of not telling the truth. And if you didn't know you didn't want to do it, you would have put it in your budget. So why were we angry at the Committee on Budgets that you didn't have the valorisation in your budget? Why did the National Budget Board tell you you were missing this amount? You're the one who convicted yourself of never thinking about paying these people off. And please, you can't talk. Because it would be normal to have it there and then move it, and you didn't. And you're just mocking the citizens, and you're still taking advantage of the state of legislative emergency. And while I'm here at the counter, the next thing you know, it's actually due to extraordinary spending caused by the effects of the war in Ukraine. So I'd like to ask, what kind of financial expenditure do we have now? Because I think it was an accounting operation, when we somehow evaluated the combat technique, we took it to Ukraine because our tankers don't ride in the combat technique, or the drivers of armored transporters, certainly don't draw oil from the Ministry of Defence's budget made of Russian oil, while we're at it. And I'd like to know what kind of expenses we had? [[Time.]] You're always leaning on this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u41	Time, Madame. I beg you to keep your time. Now, with a point of fact, the President will speak Výborný, followed by Mr Koten.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u42	Thank you, Madam President. Before that, I didn't have time to respond to my colleague Aleš Juchelka. He's right about saying I'm not a lawyer. I never pretended to be a lawyer. On the other hand, I have been a member of the Constitutional Legal Committee for five years and I am trying to be a learned Member, a learned pupil. Among other things, I come from a legal family where there are also those who have devoted themselves to law at the highest constitutional level, so, of course, I will consult on these matters. Then it's just here to explain. I would then ask your assistance, Madam President - President Schillerová knows very well that I am the President of the KDU-ČSL, and when I speak here, I am not speaking for the government, but I am speaking with the opinion of the KDU-ČSL. I think it's easy. You know it, I know it, you know it. So please don't push the public and the MPs into anything else. I also ask my colleague Brabec to keep the debate really on some level of political culture. Whoever is ashamed of what or who is ashamed of what, please leave it to the particular Members. I think that would be good. And as for the arguments put forward here by President Pekarová Adamová and others, or to me, or to Minister Jurečka, I think it has been said here. All the reasons why the state of legislative emergency - which, by the way, is now, yes, that is the law, just read the Rules of Procedure - were said here. But unfortunately, there's a winged one: it's in vain, it's in vain, it's in vain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u43	Mr Koten. Following is Mr Kubíček. And please, let's keep the room calm. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u44	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond here to the speakers, through you, because we are still talking about a state of legislative emergency here, but what this situation is supposed to serve is absolutely incredible. It was here that this valorisation was not budgeted. Well, it wasn't, it wasn't in the budget. And now the government wants to save it. And who's he gonna save it for? We must say that it wants to save it on those most vulnerable who cannot defend themselves. That's really unbelievable. Some here have also said, my previous speakers honored, that political culture in the Chamber of Deputies should be observed here. Okay, so we've got a political culture here that we're gonna rip off seniors about their valorization? But your government caused the inflation here! Your government here exports Czech taxpayers' money from the Czech Republic and you're just moving it from chapter to chapter. And there's nothing left for seniors. This is absolutely unbelievable. That group of people who can't defend themselves at all! That's really, that's incredible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u45	Mr Kubíček followed by Mr Foldyna. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u46	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I will be very brief. I don't understand why a state of legislative emergency should be opened because we're still talking about valorization and starting with 1. 7. 2023. If we were going through a standard legislative process, we could not be haunted here by the fact that this valorisation mechanism will continue in the next year, because, as my colleague Alena Schillerová, through Madam President, said, we were ready to talk about it. We were ready to talk about the change. But in a standard legislative process. The valorisation was driven out by the late measures in the context of the energy surge that we proposed, and you realized them six months later. And you can't hide because it wasn't said here. And just to be clear, this government has set aside CZK 100 billion to compensate for the energy ceiling. The difference in the valorisation mechanism is CZK 19 billion. So I think that there will still be 81 billion crowns left, and that money would also go to families with children and other social measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u47	Mr. Foldyna, followed by Minister Jurečka. It's all factual. I beg you to keep your voice down. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u48	Thank you. Mr. Skopeček left, and I wanted to explain it to him. [[Member Skopeček reports he's in the hall, then he's going to listen in front of the speaker's desk.]] He's here. Mr. Skopečka, I wanted you to... Sorry, through Madam President. I wanted to explain. I got emotionally carried away, you know? I live in a region where life isn't easy, where it's not easy for people. You know, those who go to work don't take as much as those who live here in Prague or in the Central Bohemia Region or in the rich regions. It's really very problematic in our country. In the morning, seniors are standing outside the supermarket waiting to buy at a discount. It's hard for them. Those elderly people often have grandchildren, so they help them. You know, with us, it's... It's hard for me to say, Mr. Skopečka, you know, it's such a tough situation in a place where people live from hand to mouth. Maybe you don't know. Come and see us. It's hard. And if the old man is trying to help the family, and now he won't be able to give them the time that the family has to take care of the old man, because it's not even gonna work out for him at the nursing home... It's emotional, my friends. It's very emotional. Come and meet us in the region when you decide on these matters. Just so you know what the situation is. Come to Kaufland at 9:00 a.m. when they're opening or Lidl or some other department store and see what these people are buying. The cheapest, the least quality, 'cause they don't have any money left today. And you still want to steal from them the rest they were entitled to. Excuse me for being so emotional. [[Time.]] I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u49	Minister Jurečka, followed by Mr Novák. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u50	Thank you. Madam President, fellow Members, I dare to respond to a number of my previous speakers, and I want to illustrate a few clear facts that really cannot be discussed. And here, please nicely, is first of all information about what the structure of paid pensions in the Czech Republic looks like today. [[Shows the chart Breakdown of the number of pensioners according to the amount of pension.]] This means that the most frequently paid pension in this country is CZK 21,000. Look, everybody else, I'm not downplaying it, but look in the structure where there really are those people with very low pensions. And we're adding more to those of this change. To those who really have a pension on the lowest level, we also add nominally more. So if you're arguing that this government wants to take something from someone, yes, here's the situation that we're going to valorize those who have the highest pensions at a lower rate, and we're going to add more to those with the lowest pensions. And here it really is clear what the situation of retirement income in the Czech Republic looks like. I would also like to show you here when you said here how this government doesn't want the elderly, so look - the development of pension growth over the last few years. [[Shows a second graph called Average pension this year exceeds CZK 20,000.]] What's the rate of growth in these pensions? 31 percent increase in pensions per year and a half of the citizens in this country who receive pensions. When we look at the situation of those who have to make money from their pensions, their situation is far from growing at this rate. [[A note from a Member outside the microphone that it is not factual.]] That's what intergenerational solidarity is all about. We increase pensions by an average of 760 crowns by this proposal and by people with lower pensions ratioably and by those with the lowest and nominally added more. It's my reaction to what was said and not true.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u51	I'm gonna ask for the mute of the MP. It really serves to respond to the debate, and I believe that in this case, what was said here in the previous contributions was quite obvious. So, if you'll just hover on the microphone, please. A factual point, next in line, is Mr Novák, followed by Mrs Fialová. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u52	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I dare you, by your means, to respond to a colleague of the Výborný, who has told us here: we are not begging anyone, we are not taking anything from anyone. You're on. You said we'd add 752 kroner. You're supposed to add $1,752 crowns! If you don't want to take anything from anybody, we can shut this place down today and go to work because we're here for nothing. And to my colleague Jurečka, again through you, I dare to respond. With his super chart of 20,000... I'd like to see you deal with it. I'd like to see you. And what that pensioner under your government is getting today - not thanks to your work, thanks to the valorization - is still much less than how his cost of living went up because of your incompetent government. That's it. And if I return to a state of legislative emergency, it actually does, when I read the first part: a state of legislative emergency can be declared in exceptional circumstances, when fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens are fundamentally threatened... And I can end up here because you're doing everything you can to bend the law, and if something doesn't add up, you're gonna change it your way. This is indeed bordering on the fact that you are beginning to threaten the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens. Shame on you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u53	You can address ministers directly. Mrs Fialová, this is Mr králíček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u54	Thank you. I will respond to Minister Jurečka. I'd like to remind him of his words from the last parliamentary term to the 104th meeting 25. 1. 2021, where we also discussed a legislative emergency, and it concerned the Public Health Act, the so-called covid passport, we changed here. And the Member himself - at that time - said Marian Jurečka on the issue of a state of legislative emergency - and now I will quote: I have a few brief remarks on this. I'm asking myself a question, government, are you crazy? Fuck off with that attitude. Here were the moments when we had to deal with these things, we were dealing with the pandemic law, so we were normally communicating, we came in, we said, we're looking for parameters for conformity, we're going to do it in a state of legislative emergency. We sat on it, there was a legislative process in two weeks. Now no deal, no avizo, no effort to negotiate conformity on parameters. You come up with such a broad proposal, you want it now in a legislative emergency, you're interfering with things that are on the verge of constitutionality or behind it. That's really not a normal procedure. Pull it back, we'll get it back to you for processing. We offer our experts on covid, Anticovid team, and you will come up with it eventually again. But not with this procedure. And don't try to blackmail us that it's really 12 in here in a minute, now it's got to be dealt with. And you go on... and you end up like, "Not like that." I therefore ask, Minister, what is the difference between the edge of constitutionality at the time and today when you quote us here from the explanatory memorandum. [[Time.]] What happened to turning your mind around like that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u55	Mr králíček, with a factual point, is followed by Mr Vondráček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u56	Madam President, Minister, fellow Members, I would like to respond in my brief factual point to Mr Výborný, Vice-President Skopeček and Minister Jurečka. I think in this debate, whatever it is, we just don't agree. Our arguments are falling, your arguments are falling. But what I want to say and point out is that I have been waiting for a government coalition to have a unique opportunity to come to the opposition after those tense presidential elections and show society that, as politicians, we are able to act together and on fundamental issues, which I think is simply to agree to valorize pensions and adopt a law that will be sustainable for several years. And those citizens will know that even politicians are able to act and come up with a sensible proposal for these people. What did you do? After the presidential election, you put your steam war at a higher speed and your 109 (?) You're gonna crush anything in here. And I would like to ask Mr. Jurečka, who will be responsible for losing the Constitutional Court and paying not only the valorisation that belongs to pensioners, but also the penalty, which will be at least a hundred million? Who will personally be responsible for the extra money you're risking here and which you'll throw out after that?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u57	Mr Vondráček and Mr Zlínský will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u58	Thank you. I would like to respond to a number of my previous speakers. Of course, it's slightly chaotic, because there's a lot of applications. I applied at the moment when President Výborný spoke and responded to Mr, my honourable colleague Ríša Brabec, who I think pointed out in a funny way that we feel sorry for him, because apparently he was meant to defend the undefensible. I think Richard said it funny, sophisticatedly, and that's part of the debate. In response, perhaps, to Mr Výborný, who said that the discussion did, but that it should not be long. But the debate is principled, and I am convinced, I know that among you, especially among those seasoned MPs from the ODS, there are people who realize that the conditions of the state of legislative emergency are not met, that this is an abuse. And that's what the debate should be about right now. And that's why the debate is going to be because it's crucial to us, it's principled. And those pensions, that's what we're gonna talk about. But now the point is, you're using a method that you've said several times that you're not happy about, but you've used it again, and now it's the most flagrant and it's a very sensitive question. And what we're dealing with here today, if this goes away, that means in the future, there'll be others coming in and they'll take advantage of it even more. You're creating another precedent here. The problem here is that the term "state of legislative emergency" is being emptied. It's long past where the Constitutional Court defined it, you're already defining it your way, you're going around it, and then there'll be others, and of course there'll be more coming after you, this government isn't here forever, someone else will come and empty it even more. It reminds me of an article I recently read that, especially for the younger generation, the term "you dude" has become empty, that it isn't really vulgar anymore. So you're emptying out the term 'legal emergency'. I don't want us calling each other an emergency in no time, man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u59	After all, I would think that we still, our generation, see it as not entirely appropriate to use it here behind this counter. Mr Zlínský followed by Mr Michálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u60	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I dare to respond to Minister Jurečka, through you. At his first performance here, he said something in the sense that we should also consider the issues of the younger generation. I'm a little worried if we're not digging up an intergenerational hatchet here because I'm worried that in a conflict situation like this, it's going to be very difficult to agree on a reform of the pension system, which we're probably going to do in the future, that's indisputable, because everyone or those who care about it, the demographic changes that are in our population, so you know that they're coming in irreversibly the year when they retire the so-called Husákův children, and they're actually going to have to, as someone would say, feed the people who were born after 1989, when the demographic situation, the birth rate, was very unfavourable. So what I would mention here is that we should start talking about how to increase birth rate and save what else we can, and instead of talking about having 90 or... more gender, we should focus on the fact that the basis of birth rate is family, that is, two sexes, a woman and a man, and not ninety sexes, I cannot imagine how emphasising 90 sexes will lead to an increase in birth rate in the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u61	Thank you for keeping time. The Member, President Michálek, is now following. And Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u62	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, let us also have the ministers present in the debate, for example, the Minister for Legislation here, who can explain the reasons why the government has chosen a state of legislative emergency and why the conditions for its progress are met. We would then perhaps learn that the conditions of the legislative emergency are more widely understood by the Constitutional Court, so that it includes the consequences of an extraordinary fact, including their impact on the state budget. It's the Constitutional Court's case-law, where the Constitutional Court explains it nicely. And, of course, we have extraordinary circumstances here. The government, the government, the government, did not create an increase in trades, and it does not run the market. This is the result of the war in Ukraine, the increase in energy and so on, we all know that. [[The opposition and the screaming of the members of the YES.]] And Hungary, which is sometimes given to us as a role model, is far worse off with inflation. Fortunately, we are much better off in the Czech Republic than in Hungary. [[11.10 hours]] For the Pirate Club, I say that I greatly appreciate seniors, our grandmothers and grandfathers, and it is a good thing that the government is proposing to add 700 crowns. Overall, the increase in average income under this government is absolutely record-breaking. That's why I don't like the fact that some continue their rhetoric against their grandmothers and grandfathers and their daughters and sons on the other hand, and basically the upsetting of families. This is the rhetoric of the divisions that voters rejected in the presidential election. Let's talk reasonably, let's have a standard debate, let's say what pace the increase in pension spending, parental contribution and support for other people affected by inflation is sustainable, let's explain it in a debate where all these opinions can be heard. And I would also like to ask our opposition to present to us its consolidation plan, so that it makes sense with the budget. [[Time!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u63	Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová followed by Mr Juchelka. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u64	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Michálek, through Madam President. If there are extraordinary circumstances, Mr. Michálek, why, if I have twice passed a law here on freezing the salaries of politicians who are already in the legislative process and presented it to Andrej Babiš in November 2021, why didn't you support it? Why, then, if there are extraordinary circumstances, wasn't he on the agenda? And I'm curious to see how you're going to stand up for it, because you haven't approved it twice, which means we're demanding an emergency meeting. If I want to spare someone, if I want to take something from someone, I should start with me. There's no way you did that! And that's a fact. At the same time, I would like to respond to Mr Výborný. Mr. Excellent, what you've done here again is mere arrogance and disdain, telling us here that something is in vain, futile, futile. The terrible thing is how you come here, the way you act. You come here with a state of legislative emergency. This state of legislative emergency must be confirmed by this Chamber of Deputies. We are clearly saying that there are no grounds for declaring a state of legislative emergency. And let's say why that is, why you didn't come up with it. You knew the inflation was high. Today we have the third largest inflation within the EU. And who caused it? This government has caused this! That's just a fact. And because there were municipal elections and there were presidential elections, you had to come up with it after the presidential elections and therefore the state of legislative emergency. Bring it up in the standard legislative process. And I think it's really rude and outrageous that you want to approve in the middle of the year. Bring it up, let's talk about it, from January 1st, 2024. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u65	Thank you for keeping time. Now, Mr Juchelka, with a point of fact, will be prepared by Mrs Ožanová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u66	Thank you very much. I will also respond to Mr Michálek, through you. I am pleased that the criticism from you, Mr Member, has been heard in its own ranks, because you are doing this division of society not only by the way in which you adopt the amendment to the Emergency Valorisation Act, but also by the law itself on extraordinary Valorisations is very much, I would say, dividing society and even the rhetoric, and we saw it, for example, in the headline last week, when Minister Jurečka said that if I paraphrase this, the reduction of extraordinary valorisation will not be to increase parenthood for families with children. So this division of society where you're crashing the solidarity between the young, the old, the sick, the healthy, the rich and the poor, that's your rhetoric, you're dividing the society, and of course you're responsible for it. About the pension structure. Yes, there are 21 000 crowns, but we also have to remember that over 17 percent, 17.5 percent, we have inflation in the Czech Republic at this time. And for several months, it has been at the top of the European Union. At this point, the Czech Republic is a third country in the European Union with the highest inflation. And I remember how this government said that it would fight inflation, how it said in the election campaign that it knew what our inflation recipe was, how it would save CZK 70 or 80 billion from the budget's spending page immediately. So where is it at this point? You simply and simply want to take 7,000 by the end of the year from old agers, that's a fact, and yet you demagogically dare to turn around, that you will increase them by 720 crowns, or how much it works. [[Time.]] 760. That's awful!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u67	Mrs Ožanová, Mrs Malá will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u68	Thank you, Madam President. I volunteered at a time when I wanted to respond and I will only respond to a colleague of the Excellent, through you, Madam President. Words are futile - he's right. I would like to remind him that he is a truly valid member of the Constitutional and Legal Committee, and he himself knows well that even in the past period, when a fellow Member from the Constitutional and Legal Committee behaved rudely that I stood up for him. But it would be good to remember the past. Ladies and gentlemen, we too have been able to stand up to our minister during the constitutionally-legal committee during the last parliamentary term and say that something is not a legislative emergency. Can you do that, too? This was about the proposal being made to deal with insolvency in a legislative emergency. Together, the coalitions rejected the opposition. We also knew that even though this proposal came from the government, that it was simply not okay, and because we looked at it from an expert point of view, we said no to our own minister. Can you, too, say no to what you disagree with? Is that stupid? Try it! Because this really isn't part of the legislative emergency. Please, it's just legal regulation, that's all. And you're saying that a change in legal regulation is a reason for a legislative emergency. Try to have the courage, you who disagree, and say no, it's not okay!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u69	Mrs Malá, followed by Vice-President Skopeček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u70	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I would like to respond to the words of my colleague Marek the Výborný. I don't think it's in vain. It is not in vain to remind you all the time here, and we will do this forever, and if you do not understand it, we will actually file a constitutional complaint that you are about to abuse the state of legislative emergency, you want to break the principle of retroactivity, the principle of legitimate expectations and the principle of predictability of law. These are the basic constitutional principles on which democracy and the Constitution of the Czech Republic stand. And we're really not gonna resign on this! I would very much like to hear the views of all the members of the Constitutional and Legal Committee on this matter, but unfortunately, if we are to discuss this point in a state of legislative emergency, we will not be able to do so. And I'm not surprised, because those who would vote for it would have to be ashamed!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u71	Vice-President Skopeček followed by Mr Hendrych. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u72	Thank you very much. So I wanted to appreciate Mr. Foldyna apologizing. I understand emotion. I understand that this will be about emotions in the coming days, emotions are about politics, but on the other hand, we must not confuse concepts. Emotion doesn't mean lying and falsely accusing. Here I have heard from my fellow Member, Mr Foldyna, Mr Hrnčíř, that we compare seniors to natural disaster. Mr President, through Madam President, show me which member of the government coalition likened seniors to a natural disaster, then I will apologize for speaking here. It wasn't anyone, in my opinion. It's a stupid, false accusation, it's a lie. It's just an attack that you should apologize for, because no one said it. So please, I'm not resisting emotions at all, but we're not lying. A colleague of Králíček's who said something about a steamroller. It seems to me to be smiling at the moment when we have an x-table since the beginning of the term, where we have a hard time getting through the approval of the agenda, when we are experiencing obstructions here in the very ordinary laws when we approve the program. Well, I'm the one imagining something else. [[as:]] There's no steamroller here. There is a struggle to even negotiate standard normal laws because the current opposition has not yet been able to acknowledge defeat in elections. [[11.20 hours]] I hear a lot of talk here about solidarity. I'm sure that's a word I own, too, but solidarity must go both ways. This solidarity must be both for older citizens, but solidarity must also be for our children and a generation of younger ones, who also need pensions, which they will also need to live in the Czech Republic, which will generate some public goods, which means that budgets will be at least a little bit in order. That is why we are here today at this meeting, and we must bear this solidarity in mind.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u73	Mr Hendrych is following and Mrs Peštová is ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u74	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to one thing here, to the Minister Jurečka. He correctly showed a graph in which he shows some Gaussův curve, the distribution of pensions in the population. He showed us which pensioner is in the so-called median, that is, the most frequently paid pension is about 20,000 or 21,000. But this is essentially creating a paradox, because we are denying the performance and merit principle on which this current pension system is based. We will add much less to those who have tried, worked, studied, and had two jobs, and they have a higher pension. We're going to add a lot less to them than the others. At the same time, we're going to cut everyone off. That means it's basically having a kind of double effect. We take away everyone, even the low-income ones, and those who tried to work, we basically take away more from them. I think it's wrong. And it's a paradox, it creates a kind of quasi solidarity between the pensioners themselves, and I think it's quite revolutionary here in this concept of yours. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u75	Mrs Peštová is now following and Mrs Balaštíková will be prepared. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u76	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I koukat Mr Michálek has left already, through Madam President. Well, as if they're gonna mention Ukraine, they're gonna mention Babiš and Agrofert in a minute, and we've got it all. I don't understand why we're going around all the time. I asked a few simple questions I didn't get the answers to. I meant the Minister will answer that. [[Minister Jurečka responds from the bench that he will answer in a proper debate.]] He was showing... But anyway, there's been a debate... [[The President: Please do not address yourself from places.]] You were showing your... You're not supposed to talk to me, Minister! You were showing your graphics here, weren't you, where you said everything you guys paid off? You didn't pay anything. That's the law. The law is clearly given what you have to do. It's not that you paid off, it's just the law tells you, you paid off. [[Don't you think so?]] But I had a question. I told you to be careful here. Why didn't you, as the Ministry, put that bill into an interdepartmental commentary proceedings last year? That was my one question. No one answered my question. Because you were waiting after the election. I understand that, so at least tell me about the microphone. We waited for the election, so that's why we weren't, and we just didn't have any prior caution. I'll remind you of what you said as KDU-ČSL when the valorization was done. It was you, KDU-ČSL, Members who have spoken that this valorisation is an insurance policy - insurance - against future governments that would misplace high inflation. Those were your words. Those were your words - KDU-ČSL. And you're stealing from seniors today!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u77	Mrs Balaštíková followed by President Schillerová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u78	Well, hello again, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to respond to Minister Jurečka, through you, Madam President. Minister, I understand that you've shown us some boards here that you probably have the breakdowns, but we're on the budget committee, and we've also asked you here that we want relevant analyses to evaluate the impact on individual groups of pensioners, as they are moving at that level of pay, so that we know whether these are also how many people who live independently or in pairs. This is also extremely important how this person then makes a living, and so whether it is those people who unfortunately carried out activities where the financial value really is not so high and therefore have low pensions, or you were the people who decided to do so, such as the self-employed who did not pay and now would like to have high pensions. I've always held the phrase that the company is an hour machine, and every lap is needed by both the director and the cleaning lady. Of course the cleaning lady doesn't take as much as the principal, but she's needed, and now she's low pension, and we're punishing her? We needed her, too. But let's punish those who deliberately didn't pay for the system. And now you're actually gonna take everyone away from them, no matter how we stood, and I hear from your mouth in the media that you don't want to do that. Then don't do that. You've had enough time, you've just wasted it, now we're hiding it for something. Let's move on and let's discuss this, we're definitely ready for this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u79	Madam President Schillerová, this is Mrs Hanzlíková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u80	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Well, Prime Minister Michálek isn't here. I only have two minutes, so I won't respond to him, he's got it all mixed up, maybe when he comes. So, Minister Jurečka, you've been showing different graphs here, so I've got some interesting ones here, too. [[He's showing the chart.]] It's from the explanatory statement of the law that... [[Minister Jurečka responds from the bench.]] Yes, a table, not a graph, a table, okay, let's not grab a word, I think we're going to have worse problems, Minister, than comparing a table and a graph. The table from your law, where it says how much in which group of pensions in terms of above will bring this beautiful novel of yours, although sometimes I hear that it helps those high-income ones. I don't know any high-income people. Let's see. It brings 36 equal crowns to those who take the pension of 8,000. Thirty-six crowns straight! Do you remember Kalouskův's 40? Suddenly, it's connected to me. The 40 crowns when Nečas - Kalousek valorized behind the duo and took everyone else away. It's directly from your explanatory report, so I'm sure you can't question this table in any way. And then we have a beautiful table, in quotation marks, of course, beautiful. Inflation, Eurostat last week, Czech Republic, beautiful, in quotation marks, bronze medal, 19.1 Eurostat numbers. Well, that's it. This is supposed to protect these seniors from this inflation. That's supposed to protect you. And that is nothing to solve the structural deficit, that is nothing to solve any parametric change in pension reform. It's just that you want to take it away from them because you need to put a hole in your budget that you left behind, and you've been waiting for it to open up after the election. So admit it. And again I challenge you, take it back! [[Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u81	Please observe the time limit. Mrs Hanzlíková, followed by Minister Jurečka, with factual remarks. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u82	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take the liberty of responding to Minister Jurečka and his chart with a pension of twenty thousand, and I would just like to point out that half of the seniors will not reach such a pension. And all people who have a disability pension can't reach a pension like that at all. Here's an average pension of about 14,000. And just imagine buying food, medicine, medical supplies, and so on for 14,000 when peppers are now worth 200 crowns. That's one thing. Then the second thing, please. Please don't tell me you don't take anything from seniors, that you don't steal from them and rob them. Because logically, if they were to get an average of CZK 1,717 and only get an average of CZK 720, then there's probably..... 760, thank you, Minister, they're not really gonna get a bigger part of it. [[Minister Jurečka from the bench: 760.]] Then I wanted to mention the responsible farmers, we have heard that many times here too. So if the government were and behaved like a responsible economic operator, we wouldn't have inflation of 17.5 percent and we wouldn't have to deal with this issue of pensions here either. And then to Mr Michálek, by your means, Madam President. Intergenerational belonging really is the worst in your government. I pointed that out two weeks ago when I intersected Minister Jurečka. And it's your rhetoric and your communication in the media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u83	There is a factual remark from Minister Jurečka and Mr Babka will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u84	Thank you, Madam President, fellow Members. In a few factual points or a few factual points, I will allow myself to respond to some factual points. As far as intergenerational solidarity is concerned, let us remember that the important shift is the introduction of education from 1 January this year, the long-term priority that we have promoted here under the KDU-ČSL, in the end it has been able to fulfil by joint votes across the entire Chamber of Deputies, which has helped women with low pensions in a significant way, and has contributed to what I have shown in the previous graph that we have really increased the lower pensions for these women. It's 1.4 million women who raised us, the current productive generation. So don't tell me that somehow the government here isn't helping to have a really good balance in this intergenerational solidarity. As regards the comments on the legislative emergency, the definition speaks of economic damage in relation, for example, to the issue of state budget expenditure, the previous case-law also clearly confirms this, so it is the formulation part. And this is really about the fact that once this June of this year, if this year's valorization would take place according to the existing rules, this year it will be CZK 34.4 billion, in the next 58.8, and this is how it will become permanently mandatory expenditure forever, and no government will do anything about slowing the rate of valorization. I am very pleased and appreciate that some of you opposition representatives have declared and said that they have the ambition to look for ways to adjust the valorisation mechanism in the long term so as to be sustainable. I appreciate that. And I also have to say that I said in public space that this year, in the context of pension reform, we need to adjust the valorisation. I said that even at the time of the top presidential campaign. So don't tell me I've been avoiding the subject.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u85	Thank you, Minister. Colleagues, colleagues, have a nice morning. We will continue with factual remarks. Mr Ondřej Babka is registered, Mr Juchelka will follow. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u86	Madam Vice-President, thank you for the floor. I am here to respond to the previous performance of Minister Jurečka and his graph, his second graph, which showed here which concerned the average pension. I was very interested in the graph, especially because the graph ended with its photo. I've seen a lot of graphs. I don't remember anyone finishing graphs with a picture, it's a little narcissistic. And it might be understandable if you put your mind to it in some way if those pensions grew in that year 21 and 22 because of your decision, or because of your government's decision, or because of some of your struggle for the elderly. But it wasn't your government. It wasn't you, Minister, it wasn't your decision or your fight for seniors. It was simply legal valorization due to inflation. So this graph is really beautiful. I hope you'll show us one more time today, so I took a picture of it, so I'll keep it as a memento. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u87	Thank you. Mr Juchelka is now in office, Mr Feranec will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u88	Thank you very much. I will first respond to the Minister, to his previous, last performance. If there is any economic damage on the expense page, as you say, by increasing this extraordinary valorization here, then I do not understand the words of Minister Stanjura in Questions by Václav Moravec, who said that the budget will bear it if it happens to pass, and that the state budget law does not have to be amended at all. So at this point, if that's how it is, then you just want to take the 7,000 to the old-age retirees and, of course, fix the budget somehow. As for the message that we're supposed to leave here, because if it's a message across the different young, old, solidarity, it's also a message to me that we leave here to those future generations when we say we're just living in a legal state where people can trust politicians who don't change the law according to how they suddenly remember. That they could lean on those laws. That they may have some legitimate expectations, which simply and simply in those laws that are like insurance, which, for example, is the law on extraordinary valorisations, that they can just trust them that it won't be taken retroactively. That's also a message to the citizens. Look, and I say this to Mr Skopečka, through you, Madam President, this is also important, and this is, of course, what you are questioning here by this legislative emergency, and if you are not putting up a fight with, say, families with children and those pensioners, then the proof could be that you, for example, have long ago been able to support families with children by raising a parent who we, as opposition, have had in the Houses of the Press, I believe, 236 since June last year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u89	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for keeping time. Mr Feranec will now appear, Mr králíček will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u90	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I will respond briefly to the speech of the Vice-President of the House, Mr Skopeček. He was mowing Mr. Foldyna here when he said seniors weren't a natural disaster, and he said it was a lie or a false accusation. She's the third option, she could be a metaphor, right? And we've gotten used to it, it's not our invention, it's the invention of the government officials that if the Prime Minister says something that's not true, it's a metaphor. So if the Prime Minister can use metaphors, it is undoubtedly possible for Members to use them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u91	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr králíček, Mr Kettner, will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u92	Madam Vice-President, I would just like to respond briefly to Mr Jurečka and Vice-President Skopeček. About what Mr. Jurečka said. I think there's only one economic damage because you're gonna lose the Constitutional Court and you're gonna have to pay the penalty because you're gonna have to pay those things off. And that will be your economic loss for which you personally should be held responsible. And then the reaction to Mr. Skopeček. Well, we're not resisting the debate, so come and discuss with us. Come and discuss. But we're mostly contradicting the fact that you're here today to take something those retired people are entitled to. What's next? Mr. Jurečka will send a bill to the elderly to return their pensions in the last five years?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u93	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Kettner will now be given the floor, Mrs Peštová will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u94	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I'll get back to the point. You want to approve this in a legislative emergency, which is, when civil rights are threatened, a threat to the security of the Czech Republic if there is serious economic damage. What does it say? Threats, threats and threats. In your nature, you say that pensioners, disabled people, and so on, are a threat and a threat to us. You know that's wrong. And you need, you don't have arguments, and you need at least some support, so you're actually creating another enemy, and now there's retirees on the run. You're creating an intergenerational conflict! Have you read the comments from young people who jumped in on how you present it? That actually the young ones are gonna be sick because it's gonna be... Those seniors are gonna take away their economic boom and so on. Try telling your grandmother who's got $12.5,000 pension, if she pays rent, she has problems, some diseases, she has to pay for the drugs that are due. And she's left with, like, $500, $1,000 to eat. Try telling her she's a threat. For proboha's sake, let's remember that the people we're talking about are sitting in this beautiful room. Did we build it? No. It was built by the previous generations. And we should be grateful for that. And we should treat that generation, those old people, we should respect them, because everything we use, everything we have, we have because of them. And I feel like you're completely ignoring this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u95	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Peštová will now speak with a factual remark, Mr Mašek will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u96	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Minister Jurečka, when he valorizes and the pensioners get added according to the law, he sends them, besides the beautiful graph, Mr Babka, through Madam President, a beautiful honeymoon. He always tells them how he raised their pension and how nicely he took care of them. So it's not just the graph. There's a lot more that's media-pressed into those old people's heads. But then they come here and actually present this law here and present it in a legislative emergency. Again, I haven't been answered. I've been saying all this time, why didn't the D.O.D. put the law in the inter-department last year? We could have avoided this. Where in this law is it remembered of those pensioners who retire this year? I mean, they're gonna be cut short on the valorization against those retired seniors. I mean, it's basically the pasculi you've done. You're also hiding it for causing economic damage. Minister, don't be mad at me. I've read the constitutional findings. I hope you've done the same job as me, because there's a lot of them, and it's a beautiful reading. I can tell you that I personally, even though I'm not a constitutional lawyer, think you're gonna lose this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u97	Thank you. Now, Mr Mašek, with a point of fact. Mr Jakob will follow. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u98	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Ministers, fellow Members, Minister Jurečka here spoke of serious matters. It would cost 34 billion this year to add the elderly, the valorisation, to say that in the years following, if nothing had changed, it would have been at least 58 billion. They're serious numbers, but you need to figure out why they're so tall. It's because we have 17 percent inflation. I will ask the Minister: If this government worked well, it took the necessary measures in time - I do not want to list them all here now, I will say this in my post - where would we be, what would we add if standard inflation were on average 10% in the rest of Europe? That's the question. If we were to talk about any economic damage - and I do not agree with the definition of significant economic damage - but if it were, it would clearly go to the government of the Czech Republic for failing to maintain inflation. The current addition, which should have been over CZK 1,700 on average per pensioner, and you want to reduce it by one-off robbing those pensioners on average, is really just a question of the government's incompetence, and it goes beyond that government. You have to call it that. There are no other objective reasons you want to blame it on. It's not the result of war, it's where everyone lives. Look, you're arguing yourself that Maďar are worse off now. Suddenly we're interested in how Maďar valorize or don'tvalorize? We're just going to go ahead and save that money you didn't put in your budget, and that's the main problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u99	Thank you. Now, Mr Jakob, with a point of fact. Mr Okamura will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u100	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, my de facto has two parts. Firstly, I have to respond to my colleague Schillerová, who said here that pensioners who have CZK 8,000 will increase their pension by 36 crowns. It really isn't. If this amendment, which we are about to discuss, had not been approved, their pension would have been increased by CZK 456. If this novel had passed, it would have been 492 kroner, i.e. 36 kroner more. So it's 492 kroner, not 36 kroner. That's the first part really. Yes, I have the tablet in front of me, too. Well, let's just say it exactly, the numbers. The second part of my de facto. Please, we are now discussing a confirmation of the duration of the legislative emergency. Many of the speakers stick to it more, many less. Unfortunately, we're not discussing the content of the novel yet. So I ask that we really return to this debate about confirming the duration of the state of legislative emergency and also ideally to give room in this debate not only to ministers within the framework of the factual ones, who will certainly explain the reasons. So, please, let's do the thing we're supposed to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u101	Thank you. Now, President Okamura, with a point of fact. Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u102	Ladies and gentlemen, I will respond to the debate here. It is quite obvious that the government's proposal, which the Fialův Government wants to rob all pension recipients of the promised money, does not meet the conditions of legislative emergency. That is why I am making a motion to abolish a legislative emergency on behalf of the SPD. That way, my proposal will be voted on after the general debate. So I'd like to ask you to make a note of that. I am giving, on behalf of the SPD, a proposal to abolish a legislative emergency and, therefore, our proposal will be voted on after the end of the debate. Of course, this is justified because you can use the legislative emergency only if the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens, the security of the state or when the State is threatened with significant economic damage are threatened. Here is the paradox that your government itself has caused its incompetence and dilettante economic damage. There are clear statistics where you yourself have caused damage, and now you're saying that, on the basis of the economic damage you've caused, that scapegoat should all be pension recipients. That's outrageous. So you're going to cause it, and then you're going to argue with yourself caused by economic damage. What a crazy situation! And by the way, let this be a regular report from the European network against poverty, which says that a million Czech citizens under your government already live below the poverty line. Furthermore, the number of Czech households with income below the poverty line has increased from 9 per cent during 2021 to 17 per cent at present. There are 9 percent of all citizens in execution because of your government's inactivity and incompetence, up to 16 percent in some regions, 40 percent of single parents are below the poverty line. So these are the results of your government. You've caused economic damage, and now you're arguing the same thing. What a disgusting situation!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u103	Mr. Chairman, I just want to make sure. You've made a motion to cancel...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u104	Yes, it's in accordance with the House's Rules of Procedure. Of course...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u105	I just want to be clear. You said emergency, but...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u106	Yes, I'm making a motion to abolish a legislative emergency.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u107	A legislative emergency, yes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u108	Yeah, a motion to abolish a legislative emergency. So my proposal will be voted on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u109	Yes, of course you have the right. I just wanted to clarify what you're suggesting. Thank you. Please, madam, you have the floor. Minister Jurečka will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u110	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I would like, by your means, to respond to Honza Skopeček, who is talking about solidarity here. So I just want to say that when you're talking about solidarity here, I'm saying again that you should start apart. Is it normal that this proposal comes from a government that has so many ministers that it does not fit in the designated places? It is a government that has the most political deputies and had to change its law of service. Is that solidarity? It's the government that has the most advisors. Now we've learned from the Minister of Health that he has 30 advisors, the Minister of the Interior has 12 advisors. It's a government that talks about solidarity that has the most agents. I don't know. [[11.50 hours]] Then I would also like to respond to Mr. Jurečka, who says: super graph - retired, 20,000. Well, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, I've been talking about this a couple of times. Your reward for performing your duties has increased by 22,000 to 195,300. That's the solidarity. I don't see anything like this on your part. I believe that there is no state of legislative emergency. Mr. Okamura here has made a motion to cancel. I believe that this proposal should be discussed in a standard - if it should be discussed - standard legislative process. It should, if necessary, enter into force and effective from 1 January 2024, and I would therefore like to make a procedural proposal for the suspension of this meeting by 30. 6. 2023. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u111	Thank you, Madame. You're making a motion to adjourn the meeting. I merely point out that either the chairman of the club or the President may make a motion to interrupt the meeting. So this is not voteable. [[There are dissenting voices from the diaper: That's not true.]] Unfortunately, we are in factual notes, so there is no preferential right. Do you want a refill, Madame?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u112	I would like to object to the President's procedure, because any Member may submit a procedural proposal. I am asking you, Madam President, to vote immediately on my procedural proposal in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u113	I merely point out, Madame, that only the President of the club or the President can make a proposal to interrupt the meeting. [[Dissenting screams from the diaper.]] Coming right up. This is Article 54 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 9.: The President of the Club of Deputies and the President may propose that the meeting be adjourned. Such a proposal shall be decided by the House without debate. [[Restlessness and noise in the Chamber.]] So this is it. You have therefore also objected to the President's procedure, which is, of course, possible. Every Member shall have the right to do so. I will therefore call my fellow Members from the lobby and we will vote on the objection to the President's procedure. Once again, I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby, and we'll take a vote. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 2, 164 Members and Members of Parliament, for 62, against 83, the proposal was rejected. We will therefore continue to make factual comments. I have the minister, Minister Jurečka, here, and then Minister Šalomoun, made a point of fact. Since he can't sign up with his credit card because he doesn't have it, I'm just asking that we give him some space. He's logged in in in advance. So in that order. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u114	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, I would like, in my factual response, to some of the speakers who have spoken here on the issue of the legislative emergency process. I think that if you really read the material, the justification, and the whole paragraph, where there are references to earlier Constitutional Court findings...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u115	I'm sorry, Minister. I'll give you some time. Please, colleagues and colleagues, take it easy. Thank you. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u116	Thank you. Where there are also the findings of the Constitutional Court, so the reader who is able to understand the content of the text is able to understand it. I was last week, it was February 16th, dealing with both presidents, in this case the President, Mr President, both opposition clubs. I have asked them, correctly, decently, as well as in other cases that we have dealt with, whether it is possible to proceed outside the legislative emergency, with shorter deadlines, as you have granted us in Lex Ukraine, for example, 5 or some other prints in the last year. So I've been told that you're rejecting this procedure, and you're wooing it. So here was an effort to go through this possible procedure, but it was rejected. And if we really look at those impacts in terms of the state budget, they're very obvious. We're not putting anyone against anyone here, we're just giving the facts and the things that are real here, in certain contexts. I will also remind you that there has been sufficient time to create for each of the Members to get acquainted with the proposal. I, on February 15th evening, had all of you Members of Parliament submit the proposal at the moment he went into the interdepartmental commentary procedure. It's one amendment to the paragraph, it's not a major change. Therefore, in relation to other judgments of the Constitutional Court, we have done our utmost to give Members the time to get to know the proposal, to be prepared for discussion, to prepare for the correction of parameters within the framework of amendments, if any.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u117	Time. Thank you, Minister. Now Minister Šalomoun with a point of fact. Mrs Pastuchová will be ready. Minister, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u118	Thank you, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I had to turn myself in with the facts, because I am excused from 12 a.m. to 12 p.m. However, I've noticed a few things here. I made notes: legitimate expectations, bonmots, government thinness and economic damage. As far as legitimate expectations are concerned, this is part of the matter. That's where I'm going to get off. As for the bonmots, as in the fact that pensioners are at risk and that they are natural disasters, these bonmots are based on the fact that, in exceptional circumstances, when fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens or the security of the state are fundamentally threatened, it is possible to declare a state of legislative emergency. However, the government does not justify it in this way, so I will not respond. But it is precisely because the State is threatened with considerable economic damage that justifies this. And the question here is whether or not to assess the legal valorisation as significant economic damage. The case-law, which would approach this as well, is one that concerns the salary of judges, where the Constitutional Court concluded there that the damage in this sense of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies cannot be considered in that narrowly civilian sense, but it must be considered in some broader political context. I've been trying really hard to find a judicature to see if there's an investigation into some kind of state's mandatorial spending, or if it's not the damage that's being done in that state of legislative emergency, but I certainly haven't found anything this explicit. And as far as the government's laxity is concerned that it could have come up with this before, but it didn't, I believe, that the government wasn't sluggish. Minister Jurečka and Chairman Výborný explained this. However, even if the government were lazy, it does not in principle exclude it from the possibility of proposing an accelerated legislative procedure in Parliament. And there are two judicates that you've been to about the pandemic law. [[Time, Minister.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u119	Thank you for keeping time. Mrs Pastuchová will now speak with a point of fact, and President Schillerová will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u120	Thank you, Madam Vice-President, until we get to the point, it fits. I've really printed for the minister here and for all of you the nice graph that the minister here has shown us, and I've made such a curve that in the future, as the minister sends all the pensioners that he's added pensions, and with his signature, you can send them this graph where you took your picture, and this will be Jurečka's pensions. [[Shows plenary a picture of where Minister Jurečka is with a graph.]] [[Minister Jurečka from the government bench - remark off microphone.]] Minister, don't shout. So Minister Jurečka is here, here we are now and in 2024 we can say that these are your pensions for the Jurečka. [[shows the graph]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u121	Thank you, Madame. President Schillerová will now appear, Mr Ryba will be prepared. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u122	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I'll be quick. It also happens before my turn, so of course there are a number of other performers. I am glad that the Minister of Finance is sitting here, because today at a press conference before the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, he threatened that, without this shameful amendment, there would be a wage-to-income ratio of 49 percent in the Czech Republic, even 61.5 percent in the net wage. It argues the official table of the Ministry of Finance, which was published today at 9.13 on the official Twitter account of the Ministry of Finance. If I completely ignore the absurdity of this argument, when you actually say that seniors are doing very well due to their average wage, and therefore you have to reach into it, and you forget that it is not due to the growth of pensions, but not to the increase in wages. Retirements aren't really poor and so forth. But I have a much more serious comment besides this fundamental comment. I ask you, Minister of Finance, why has the Ministry of Finance this morning deteriorated the estimate of average wage growth in 2023 compared to January's official macroeconomic forecast from 7,5 percent to 2,9%? Who instructed the publication of this current, aggravated prediction? What macroeconomic fundamentals have led you to this dramatic deterioration, which will have a major impact on the Czech economy and the state budget? I ask you to dispel doubt that you have abused the Ministry of Finance's authority to publish an entirely purposeful prediction to support your completely false and inappropriate argument at today's meeting. I ask the Ministry of Finance to defend its legitimacy either to defend its current prediction, to present the implications for the state budget, or immediately to withdraw this strange one, and I am very polite, the table. I ask the Minister of Finance to explain why the prediction has been changed. [[Time.]] [[Time.]] Who gave the order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u123	Yes. I am merely pointing out that, in order to clarify the further procedure for factual remarks, they are referred to in Section 60. Of course, you can sign up for a factual remark which, however, responds to the course of the debate. However, there are no factual opinions in this regard, which assumes that you will respond in this case to the Minister of Finance, who, as far as I know, has not yet appeared. So let me get this straight. If you are interested, take a look at Section 60, which speaks of factual remarks. Thank you in advance. Mr Ryba will now appear and Mrs Peštová will be prepared. Before I give the floor to the honourable Member, I will read my apologies. Mr Benešík apologizes for the whole day - foreign trip, Dvořák Jaroslav from 12 o'clock - health reasons, Hájek Jiří the whole day - working reasons, Olšáková Eliška from 11.30 - family reasons, Potůčková Lucie from 14 to 15 o'clock for family reasons, Salvetr Rudolf for the whole day for work reasons and Kupka Martin until 17.30 - foreign trip. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u124	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I would like to respond to some of the five-calice colleagues who have been here before, the last time Minister Jurečka and Minister Šalomoun touched on this issue, with the fact that the contributions referred to the fact that the announcement of the state of legislative emergency and the duration of the state of legislative emergency is entirely in line with the definition as defined by the Constitutional Court in its finding of 1 March 2011 under the registration mark 55/10. Of course, when I was preparing for this meeting, I read the Constitutional Court's finding several times, and I must say, although I am not a constitutional lawyer, it sounds exactly the other way around. I would like to read a tiny passage: the constitutional order explicitly admits the possibility of discussing the Government's draft law in a shortened hearing only on the basis of Article 8 of Constitutional Act No. 110/1998 Coll., on the security of the Czech Republic, at a time of state or state of war - yes, I will not read the whole - further admits that this state of affairs is possible even in some other cases, but concludes that in the democratic rule of law the use of the institute of legislative emergency is possible only under the assumption of a broad consensus in Parliament, which is an acclamation, or at least a majority that is comparable to the majority required to adopt the constitutional law. No matter how I read it, I don't think the constitutional majority of the coalition has it, so I don't think it can use the state of legislative emergency to discuss this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u125	Thank you. Mrs Peštová will now appear and Mr Mašek will be prepared. Please, you have the floor, your two minutes, Madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u126	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I would like to respond to Mr Jakob as well as to the Minister, through Madam President, and to Minister Šalomoun, who, of course, has left. He was talking about the economic damage that caused you to actually declare a state of legislative emergency. And we're going back to what I said at the beginning. Does that mean that if the impact study wasn't processed, what kind of economic damage are we talking about here? If Minister Šalomoun has granted an exception to the Ministry of Social Affairs, they have reduced the deadlines, I will not repeat that, and so on - they have that exception. So what kind of damage are we talking about when the impact study wasn't processed? Because there was an exception. That's one thing. To the Minister, unfortunately, he has already left me, I wanted to say that, of course, I was still drawing on the Constitutional Court's findings. And it was building savings. I don't know if he mentioned it here or not, because all he said was... [[Minister Stanjura's reaction from the government bench.]] No, this is where we were talking about whether to extend, Mr. Secretary, or not prolong the legislative emergency. And we all drew on the Constitutional Court findings. No? He mentioned it here, so I said I was drawing from other findings. Speaking of which, this is sophiiný's choice, isn't it? When you gave the choice to President Schillerová for YES, if she nods to shorten, and if we don't nod, sophiiný's choice was: we proceed to a hard method, which means there will be a legislative emergency. So what democratic debate are we talking about? Either that or... You're either gonna take a shortcut without any discussion... And then there was Section 90, I don't know, or whatever I have intel. Well, if you don't accept it, then we'll deal with it differently. Then we'll go in a legislative emergency.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u127	Thank you, Madame, for keeping time. Mr Mašek will now make a point of fact. Minister Jurečka will be ready. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u128	Madam President, fellow Members, I would like to respond to my colleague Jakob, who rightly reminded us that we should not now talk about pensions as such and about the valorisation, but about confirming the duration of the legislative emergency. But it's connected. There have been arguments that a legislative emergency should be based either on the threat of fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens or on the security of the state. Here we have agreed across that there are probably no such reasons. And there's only one reason that the state is threatened with significant economic damage. I'm just asking if the substantial economic damage can actually be explained by paying pensions in accordance with a statutory valuation formula that has been paying for many years and is supposed to protect those retired people if this is the damage? Or, then, let us discuss both the coalition and the opposition openly about whether the state is threatened with considerable economic damage caused by the inaction and incompetence of this government. This is really for discussion, we could discuss this and we could look here for reasons for the aforementioned honourable colleague Ryba to find a constitutional majority for the consensus. From my point of view, clearly the economic damage is the only problem we can talk about here. But then let's really have fun here in the context of the damage caused by the incompetence and incompetence of the government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u129	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now, with a point of fact, Minister Jurečka, Mr Brož will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u130	Thank you. I am pleased that this debate is already beginning to focus on the question of what we are about to vote on, and therefore to confirm that we will be discussing this draft law in a state of legislative emergency, as proposed, with the fact that I want to make it clear here - and it is also in the reasoning that you all have at your disposal - that we are, and we have declared this publicly, assumed that there will be an extraordinary valorisation this year. I have repeatedly communicated this in public space, I have also said that the expected estimate is somewhere up to CZK 20 billion, which also sounded from me. But the change in the situation occurred after the publication of data from the Czech Statistical Office for the month of January, which happened on 10 February on Friday at 9 o'clock, when the month-on-month increase between December and January was really very significant. This is the change that has indeed brought about a very significant increase in the financial impact on the state budget this year and in all subsequent years, because at the moment when the increase occurs, which is already due to the decision for each individual beneficiary of the pension, this cannot be adjusted in any way. The decisive date on which the government must decide on this pursuant to the current version of the Act is until 23 March. And after this date was published on February 10, I think, in a factual, transparent way, as well as in communication with the opposition, when I discussed this information on February 16th, on February 15th evening, you all received the proposal in your mail. And I think it is clear what is the essence of why, in this situation of legislative emergency and with what implications for the state budget, including the context of what it will mean for all the next governments, that this money today is not covered by contributions on insurance and so on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u131	Thank you, Minister. Mr Brož will now speak with a point of fact, Mrs Mr Mračková Vildumetzová will be prepared. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u132	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I did not want to be involved in these facts, but I have to respond to some of the things that fell from Mr Jurečka and Mr Marek Výborný in particular. We hear here all the time that we're being presented with facts. The facts are just one-sided, they're wrapped up, just like the government would like to explain. But one important fact is that according to the law, which now, at this point, still applies, pensioners are entitled to raise pensions by an average of CZK 1,700 in June. And now you want to reduce that amount to 700 by changing the law. You keep saying you're not taking anything away from them, but at this point, you're really taking it away from them. And the discussion is legitimate, of course, but why not talk about it normally? Why in a state of legislative emergency? So, as many of our colleagues have done, let's move it so that the new valorization can pay from, like, 1. 1.2024. There are absolutely no other things missing here. You're creating a huge precedent. In a year, inflation will be the same again, so nothing will be added, but they may be reduced because there will be serious, serious damage. It's just something you come up with, and you open up Pandořin's box. And I heard here that we're not supposed to tell you that you're creating some kind of intergenerational conflict. But that's what I hear from all of your statements: young generations will now have to pay for what we're about to give the elderly in June. Ježíš, what kind of argument is that? And that's because you're not creating this intergenerational problem? You're putting generations against each other completely openly today. And go talk to the people who will tell you how broken up families are today. And now, after this, quite specifically. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u133	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová will now speak with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u134	Thank you, Madam Vice-President, for the floor. I'd take the liberty of responding to the Minister of Legislation. Minister for Legislation, who apologized at 12 o'clock. And here we are discussing a confirmation of a legislative emergency. Is that normal? So this government is calling an emergency meeting for the Pension Insurance Act, where it wants to take what they're entitled to, they want to discuss it in a state of legislative emergency, and isn't the Minister of Legislation here? And he's been excused since 12 o'clock? Really? Is that another mockery to the citizens of this republic? Why isn't the minister here? Why isn't he sitting here? Why isn't he answering our questions? Can someone please answer that? Apparently, I don't think so, because the Minister of Legislation apologized at 12 o'clock. Outrageous! Second thing. I suggested that the meeting be adjourned. I must say that the Vice-President was right, so I apologize to her. Indeed, according to the Rules of Procedure, this may be proposed by the President or the President of the Club of Deputies. But that doesn't change the fact that I said the reasons here, and I believe that the state of the legislative emergency is not, that this should be discussed in a standard legislative process. And we don't even have the Minister of Legislation here. So I'll take the liberty of making another procedural proposal, to interrupt the point by 30. 6. 2023. And I ask you, Madam President, to put it to the vote immediately! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u135	I'm sorry, Madam. Let me get this straight. According to Article 54 (2) (a) of the EC Treaty, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. We can suspend the discussion of the agenda item I'm sorry, but we haven't approved the agenda yet, so we haven't opened the point. [[Members are coming to the ballroom.]] So in this case, we would continue and I consider this proposal of yours to be unvoting. Let's keep going, then. I see that the Members of Parliament have been running, we will not vote yet. Now, with a factual remark, Minister Stanjura will be prepared by Mr Hendrych.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u136	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. We're having a standard debate and not factual, but that's actually okay. So let me, I don't do this often, but to quote a few sentences. Economic window: In developed countries, it is standard to have separate monetary and fiscal policies. Fiscally, it deals with taxes or state expenditures, the monetary rate of inflation and the stability of the currency. The Constitution of the Czech Republic says that care for price stability is the aim of the Czech National Bank, not the Prime Minister or the Minister of Finance. I listen here for an hour and a half or two in many speeches by opposition MPs, as the government does little to combat inflation. I think it's fair to mention the author of the economic window I quoted was Alena Schillerová. Mrs Alena Schillerová. She was sitting on another bench. So try, Madam President, through... Through no, try explaining to the members of your club this economic window that you have published. Secondly, unfortunately, the Czech use of sayings in those proverbs, so I'm sorry, I don't mean that, but I'm going to use a winged Czech proverb - I'm judging you. Who instructed the new prognosis? Well, I don't. I don't give any such instructions with any purpose. That's what the Minister of Finance's professional apparatus is for, and I assumed that no finance minister had ever given any instructions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u137	Thank you, Minister, for keeping time. [[Noise in the hall.]] Now... I'm sorry. Please, take it easy. Mr. Ambassador, if you want anything, quieter. Thank you. Mr Hendrych, Mr Vondráček, will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u138	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I would like to respond to the already absent Minister for Legislation, Mr Šalomoun. If someone listened to him carefully, and I did, he sort of recognized that the Minister of Legislation was not an extra advocate... or an extra did not take the view that we should proceed this way. It was such a very careful speech. And so what I think is an output, such a fundamental one, from his speech, is that no mandatorial expenses are being judged as a potential economic shame that he didn't find anything like that anywhere. And that he would be some really categorical supporter of this procedure, play it again, please, play it again, so don't. And it gives me a bit of a discrepancy with the way Minister Jurečka said, for example, on the Committee on Social Policy, who claimed that this procedure had been consulted with lawyers, and that it should even stand - it was said there - even before the Constitutional Court, because there could be economic, significant economic or significant economic damage. So, on the one hand, the lawyers who advise Minister Jurečka, on the other hand, a renowned lawyer, a member of the government who has not given a strong opinion on this procedure here. It's just an important remark to whoever didn't hear it, let him replay it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u139	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Vondráček will now appear, Mr Kukla will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u140	Thank you. I will perform with a brief, non-conflict, procedural factual remark. I have two things. First of all, you quoted Section 60 a moment ago. I would like to point out that this section 60 specifically contains that the person who is speaking with a point of fact is responding to the course of the debate, in a general sense, to everything that has been said in the debate. There is a big difference between, for example, the Committee of the Slovak Parliament, where the Member really can only respond to a specific speaker and must stick to the subject and must not deviate. We have always been told by the Slovák that we have it quite broad, and it is true that we have it very broad, that it is being abused, but that is a question for a different debate, whether it is good or bad. But basically, our Madam President was sticking to the subject in content, so she did not go beyond the scope of the debate. As far as the dispute is concerned, or perhaps some interpretation rule is concerned, I, of course, accept the argument that has been made here by the Vice-President, on the other hand, dear fellow Members, we are in the debate, we are normally having a debate. So we're having the debate that's going on here. I just want to say... no, I just want to say that the Rules of Procedure don't solve it. This is a special arrangement, Section 99, and this whole debate that we are taking part in is a customary one, and it's been going on for years. But what would the President do if I suggested that the debate be interrupted? I don't want to do this. And all I'm saying is that Mrs. Mračková Vildumetzová's request was not out or against the Rules of Procedure, but we are moving in virtually uncharted areas. That's all I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u141	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for supplementing the interpretation. It is true that we are not really at the point, although there is a debate going on, but also a comment on the debates that are being held afterwards on the following points is always a little said with a question mark, with the rule that the debate is being allowed. As far as we're concerned, I understand that some things are a customary right. I would also ask that the speakers actually express themselves in response to the speakers, so that we can get to what I think is essential, and that is the expression of priority rights and other Members who have applied properly to the debate. So I thank the honourable Member that he did not propose to interrupt the debate, because I really feel that we do not have such a common law here yet. We will therefore, if you agree, continue to make further factual remarks and will now be heard by Mr Kukla, and will be prepared by President Schillerová. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u142	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I will respond to the Minister and to Mr Michálek, through you. We've been told here that you want to help the elderly. I'll tell you the facts about how you want to help them. According to the law that is already in force, the calculation clearly states that on average they should receive an increase of CZK 1,770. And what are you suggesting here? Well, you're suggesting that it's probably too much that they don't deserve it, and you're suggesting that they should only get an average of 760 crowns. That's $1,010 less. When I look at the reason message, you brag about how much you save. So in 2023, by reducing your valorization, you're going to save $19.4 billion. In 2024 you will save about 33 billion. It is very sad that on this part of the economically weak population you boast about how you will save. And I'm here to read the Prime Minister's quote, which he performed here on 26. 10. 2022, it was the first reading about the state budget for 2023, and it took place at the 41st meeting, and he said here: I think no one here in the Chamber of Deputies will find who would want to cut spending in this particular area. Well, I believe there's really no one here, and we're gonna keep the pensions that they're supposed to have by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u143	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for keeping time. Now, President Schillerová, with a point of fact, will be prepared by Mr Nacher. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u144	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Minister Stanjur, thank you for the economic window. But it was you who called inflation Babišův's price, we remember it well, at a time when average inflation in 2021 was 3.8 and 5.4 or 5.6 at the end of December. So don't hold our lectures here, and don't draw attention from the fact that I'm asking you to dispel the doubt that you've abused the Ministry of Finance's authority to publish a completely purposeful prediction to support your completely false and inappropriate argument at today's meeting. I simply ask why it came out today in 9.13 predictions, which are fundamentally different from the official January forecast of the Ministry of Finance, a regular prediction, where average wage growth differs in macroeconomic forecast in January 7,5 %, and here it is 2,9%. Again, what macroeconomic fundamentals have led you to this dramatic deterioration? How does this affect the Czech economy? How will this affect the state budget? And I ask that you explain this table of yours, especially the predicted wage growth decline of less than 3%, more than twice as much, which may have a major impact on the financial markets, the credibility of the Czech Republic and even in the eyes of international investors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u145	Thank you. Now, with Mr Nacher's point of fact, Mr Brabec will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u146	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I wanted to respond to the Minister, so I can go directly without the President, to the division of responsibilities. [[Minister Stanjur.]] Minister, here's to you. Yes, I agree that monetary or monetary policy is in charge of the CNB, fiscal or budgetary - so we are going to make an economic window here, such an education - the government is in charge above all, but in that case I do not understand, Minister Stanjur, why, before the elections, you were talking about Babišův's expensive moment when there was 5.5 percent inflation. Then explain it to me! If the theory is that the Czech National Bank is responsible for price stability, and I agree with that, then the Czech National Bank did not pay the question of Babišův's expensiveness. He can't pay both, like you always say. That's impossible. But I'll remind you that the government has the tools. For example, a reduction in taxes to zero in the energy sector in November, brought inflation down in December 2021. It hit inflation, and then in January 2022, she ran out again. That means the government has the tools. Primarily politically, he is not responsible for this, unlike the CNB, but he has the tools, Minister. And I say either it's always true or never. But it can't be based on whether a person is in opposition or a coalition. And I'm saying that you and the campaign were campaigning on the fact that Babiš's price was here, where the inflation was three times lower than it is now. In that case, who's the dear one now? Fialův? Stanjurův? Or who? Whether it's fair or not, it wasn't Babišův's before. But he can't pay both! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u147	Thank you. Now Mr Brabec with a point of fact, then Minister Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u148	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I am glad that the Minister of Finance will come after me, because I have not yet gotten to one topic in my point of fact, which I also wanted to open, and that would have really interested me, and so far I don't think it has been much of an argument here, and that is the argument of causing the so-called economic damage if this were to happen. If I take it a little bit, just a little bit of logic, does that mean that Babišův's government caused economic damage by raising salaries for teachers, soldiers, police and others? Does this mean that any increase in salaries, in this case pensions, means economic damage to the State? That's actually an innovative method to judge that. So I say at that moment, I am proud that our government, if you consider it economic damage, has caused such economic damage that they have improved their lives as teachers, policemen, pensioners and others!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u149	Thank you. Now, Minister Stanjura, with a factual remark, and Vice-President Dostálová is also registered. Please, you have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u150	First, to Mr Nacher. I quoted Alena Schillerová. That wasn't my opinion, so please lead the polemics that are definitely correct at your club. Not with me! I quoted her exactly what she said. I don't agree with it the way she wrote it. I think that the CNB has a substantial share of responsibility and a much smaller share of the government has. I told you then, I'm saying it now. Unlike Mrs Schillerová, I did not change my mind just because I am sitting on another bench. Now, this is not a legislative emergency, but we are still talking about it, Mr Brabec, a moment ago. I think the wage-to-retirement ratio, either rude or clean, is just an objective fact. So I had the ratio processed from 2006 to 2023. You guys are using such strong words about what we don't do, and the ratio is going to be 49 percent. In 2018, for Prime Minister Andrej Babiš and Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová, the ratio was 38,1%. Where have you been? Where were you to raise it?! Do you know what a higher pension would be if there was the same ratio in 2018 as in 2023? It would be higher precisely, wait, I have a calculator, 3 539 crowns a month! 3 539 crowns a month! Is that what you are if I use your rhetoric, and I'm not gonna repeat those verbs and those strong words where you've been? Why didn't it bother you when it was 38 percent? Now that we're saying it's gonna be 49, use words about a robbery or something? Eleven percent - 3 539 crowns on average a month! Times 12. Have you forgotten the proposal of Mr Andrej Babiš, who suggested that he should be equal to 30 per cent against the average wage? [[Time!]] Do you know how much it would be this year? 13,500 would have been if it had been if Babiš had made it!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u151	Time! Thank you. Mr Dostálová, then Mr Brabec, will now speak with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u152	Thank you. Since I actually have two minutes, I'd basically like to ask you a few questions that I think we need to answer here. I know that we are doing this in the regime of factual remarks, but I would like to respond to both Minister Stanjura and Minister Jurečka, because you have decided to address the state budget deficit by wanting to reduce the valorisation of pensioners in a retroactive and legislative emergency regime. And Minister Jurečka here, as part of his defense, has told you all the steps he has taken since 11. 2. But he didn't finish B, and that's what I'd like to ask. Because we all know that inflation is going to be this high since autumn. Minister Stanjura did not put in the budget for the proper, nor the 20 billion, let alone the other 15 billion. So there is simply a legitimate lack of approximately 35 billion crowns. And I'm asking, what steps did the government take besides reducing the valorisation? What did you do? Has the Minister already asked for the 50 billion from the EU funds, which means has he increased the budget for 2023 by 50 billion? Or you're dealing with valorization at restitution, or with restitution, it's OK, but for our seniors, it's not OK? Are you dealing with the number of ministers? We have here the Minister for European Affairs, who we have never seen, the European Presidency is over, so do we still need to have such a large number of ministers? Or, for example, did you give the order to freeze the salaries of politicians, as Mr Babiš suggested, so that we simply get the money into the budget and do not have to go through these drastic steps, which is retroactive, this step, and this also concerns the most sensitive parts of the population, which are pensioners, senior citizens throughout the Czech Republic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u153	Thank you. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Brabec. Are you logged in? [[Yes.]] Minister Jurečka will be ready and then Minister Stanjura will be ready. It's the last one so far. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u154	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. So answer for Minister Stanjura. Mr. Secretary, where were we? We've been in government and we've added even more to pensioners than it would have been to inflationary, whereas now you're in government, and not only are you not adding more, but you're robbing them of what they're entitled to under the law! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u155	Thank you. Now Minister Jurečka, then Minister Stanjura with factual remarks. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u156	Thank you. Thank you so much. I'm here for Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, Klára Dostálová. If she listened carefully to what I have said several times today, I have also mentioned the steps that I have made clear that we need to adjust the valorisation scheme. I said it during the fall, I said it during the peak presidential campaign. And I really appreciate it, and I'm gonna build on that next few days that I'm gonna want to look for a match with you on the alignment of the valorisation mechanism for the future. And I appreciate the fact that at least a few of you came out here and correctly said yes, we have to do something about that. That means it's obvious that there's probably no consensus in your club either, because one of you parties here is saying: adding, adding and not monitoring those impacts on the state budget, but some of you are saying yes, we are aware that at these exceptional moments the mechanism is not entirely optimally set. That means, yes, we have to implement this, but I in this proposal, and I think that's right, I'm not dealing with the other context. As a government in this proposal, we only deal with the extraordinary valorisation in June. [[12.40 hours]] And for Mrs Klára Dostálová, through Madam President. I think I'd be very careful with your statements. You're talking about members of the government. So let's really look at this in terms of significant impacts, and this is a reduction in the number of civil servants in this government to the value of 2015. The period in which the number of officials has increased for you, we are really talking about those officials who are really doing the official work, we are not talking about teachers for example, no government has any influence on that, for you this number has increased, we have reduced it. And I'll admit that I hear the words of Alena Schillerová, in your government, you were able to pay half a billion dollars for the casino. The Treasury Secretary took photos of a peacock for CZK 2 million. I don't want to say this, but if you guys are pulling stuff out here and you can't see it on the tip of your nose, you need to remind yourself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u157	Thank you. Now, Minister Stanjura will speak with a point of fact, then Mr Nacher. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u158	I would like to argue with Mr Brabec's math. 38 per cent of the pension ratio is more favourable than 48 per cent. We did a lot, we did more than we had to, but the result was 38. All I've said is the result, I'm... And today, the result is 49 percent. And you can say 38 is more than 49. Well, that's a tough debate. That's a tough debate. We can talk about whether it's a good 40, 42, 44, and we can debate it and make arguments for and against it. But if we come out that 38 is more than 49, I just can't continue this debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u159	Thank you, Minister. Now, Mr Nacher with a point of fact, then Mrs Peštová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u160	Thank you. I'll try to explain it to the Minister. It's gonna be hard. That's right. [[Fun in the hall.]] It's about me comparing those ratios now is a little bit of demagogy, and I'll tell you why. Because the moment you... you have low inflation, it was about one percent of your time, economic growth and really rising wages, so it's possible that the scissors are expanding. That means the ratio, even though the seniors are adding up beyond the valorization, it's going to go down. 40, 39, 38. On the other hand, at the moment that inflation is 10, 15, 18, 19 percent, real wages are falling, the automatic valorisation is starting, the one under the law now, so it is possible that suddenly you catch up with the average wage at that moment, because it is really falling. So actually, it's not fair to measure. We're talking about these seniors having two differences compared to that. First, unlike those working-age people, they can't, now we're talking about older seniors, making money. And secondly, their consumer basket, from which inflation should be calculated, is completely different from ours. That means their inflation is even higher. That's why we're talking about it. I'm not questioning the change in the valorisation mechanism, I'm questioning the fact that we're basically doing it backwards, retroactively. This should be done from 1. 1st following year. Because you knew about the inflation. That's the whole debate where we go round and round. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u161	Thank you. Now, with Mrs Peštová in fact, Mr Vomáčka will be prepared. Please, you have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u162	Thank you. Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I want to respond to Minister Jurečka. No one here is arguing about whether or not the valorization scheme needs to be modified. Here, let's think about whether or not this law is in a legislative state of emergency. That's the debate. Or we're talking about it, right? We are talking about the fact that this law - I asked you why you did not make the amendment of this law out of precautionary measure, albeit small, because you will be preparing definitely a big one, why you did not do it last year. Why didn't you prepare for this? When you knew the predictions were here? Now all of a sudden, you're pushing it at this rate, you're pushing it in a legislative emergency, and you want us to wave it back at you. If we're talking about why - and I'm saying, I've got my contributions ready, too, but since this discussion has come up and we're talking about it, that's why I'm just reacting. That's where legitimate expectations arose. The legitimate expectation was based on the fact that the data was released, which clearly says you're supposed to act, at that time you're supposed to issue a government order to tell what the valorization would look like from the valorization calculator. But, hey, you guys just broke it all up all of a sudden. Personally, I'm wondering how long it took you to produce this pasquil, or rather this novel, when you said you had it processed a long time ago. I don't think so. I think you were working on it in January, but since you didn't want to publish it in January and you were afraid, you didn't do it until after the data was released. And that's what bothers me. What bothers me is that you didn't go through the ordinary legislative process last year. And that you're pushing it at this rate! I just think, and I'm gonna say that sentence again, which I've already said here. [[Time.]] It was the KDU-ČSL that defended this valorization calculator! [[President: Time, Madame. Thank you.]] It was you!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u163	Yes. Mr Vomáčka is now registered with a factual remark, Mrs Oulehlová will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u164	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will calm down a little, not shouting at anyone. But right at the beginning, I noticed that - and now I don't know what kind of MP he was, he was calling on our five-calice lawyers to come and do a legal analysis here. I'm not a lawyer, I'm a zoo technician, and if there's any mention of someone being robbed, then I'd like to ask my honored colleagues here who say that behind this counter whether they've filed criminal charges when it's their duty to file criminal charges if they're witnessing a crime. And if you haven't served it, please, really, please, let's consider the means of expression and wording that are going on behind this counter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u165	Thank you. Mrs Oulehlová, Mrs Balaštíková, will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u166	I would take the liberty of responding to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, who was talking about reducing the number of officials. Yes, he's right. It is particularly lacking in large officials at the employment offices, in the social unions, in the OSPODs, because under his leadership, these people are running away, and the entire authorities are collapsing. So, Minister, I wouldn't even mention it if I were you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u167	Thank you. Now, Mrs Balaštíková, with a point of fact, will be followed by Mr Brabec. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u168	Hello again. I would like to respond to the Minister, through you, Madam President. I'd be careful with the commercial money, Mr. Secretary. I remember when you were Minister of Agriculture, when we spent money on Fish on a plate and Czech food. I wouldn't mind, it was okay, let's eat Czech food, let's eat Czech carp. But what bothered me was that the minister was drawing the carp and the piggy on the board. That wasn't a commercial? For $60 million?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u169	Thank you. Now, Mr Brabec, Mr Mašek will be prepared with factual remarks. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u170	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I would love to argue with the Minister of Finance for, like, two days. And yes, we agree that 38 per cent is less than 48 per cent. But I would like to return it to where the debate belongs again, and that is that I have made it clear that our government has given a legitimate claim plus something extra! While the Fialův Government and Minister Stanjura, in a way that is at least on the edge, we think that behind the edge not only from the point of view of legislative emergency, but of course also from the point of retroactivity and so on, actually does not want to take off the pension (?), or what they are entitled to. And that's a hell of a difference! And I think that's the main thing. But I understand Minister Stanjura because he's trying to score some points on that form, because I think he's pretty clear he's not gonna make it on that content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u171	Thank you. Now Mr Mašek with a point of fact, then Mr Pražák. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u172	Madam President, fellow Members, he has actually crossed me with his argument, Mr Brabec, by your means, because I also wanted to respond to the gunfight between him and Minister Stanjura. There is indeed the diametric difference that our government was paying what it was supposed to pay by law and even gave something extra, whereas your government does not want to live up to its obligations under the law in force. And the fact that you had enough time to respond at the end of last year, that Mr Jurečka was not only careful to say in some debates, that the valorization will occur, we will have to look at it, but Mr Jurečka should have raised his voice in that government and say, "Let's do it, I'm presenting you with a novel here, perhaps partial, before we present the promised law in the whole scope, or promised pension reform." So, gentlemen, don't play hide-and-seek now. This responsibility is clearly behind you, and now you're trying to use this legislative shortcut, using an abuse of a state of legislative emergency that really doesn't have time for here, and you need to say it yourself, to discuss these things with the opposition and find a match. You just don't have the consensus here in the constitutional majority, or most of you don't have the opposition and coalition members, so admit it. And the Constitutional Court will most likely, after filing a constitutional complaint, which will follow, so it will drop you. So maybe rethink it. And indeed this debate, when you want to rob a pensioner in broad daylight by CZK 1,000 on average, so it's just sad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u173	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Pražák, Mr Jurečka, will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u174	Good afternoon. I'll be short, I've already told my colleague Oulehlová in part. I would like to respond to the former Minister of Agriculture, Jurečka, and I say this in full knowledge, the former Minister of Agriculture, because I think he should have stuck to it, and I think he was not a bad Minister of Agriculture. Now I don't envy him for what he's doing. The fact that you said you reduced the number of civil servants - you didn't lower them, they ran away. They couldn't see where you were going, so they just ended up. They went into early retirement, or they took their pension and went to civilian service, and already without much chance of coming back. The states don't complete. Do you know what that did to the fire department, the police? There are x hundred policemen missing in the Liberec Region, and go ask those union bosses. Just the chance of fullness is zero!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u175	Thank you. The Minister Jurečka will now speak with effect, then Mr Juchelka. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u176	Thank you, I dare to respond to my previous speakers. On the one hand, I would like to say that the government has since 1 January implemented what was a proposal that we have been seeking for a long time as KDU-ČSL. It was a proposal for the introduction of education, supported by this House across. This was a significant step in which, in contrast to all previous valorisations from 1 January, moms, in some cases fathers, are paid CZK 500 each month. It is a step that has taken place, which significantly strengthens the social situation especially in women who have had statistically significantly lower pensions. So let me remind you again, when you say that in our government, no step has been taken that would significantly help improve the situation, so this form of intergenerational solidarity, this award for raising children here has been applied since the first time, even if some economists have walked and advised whether we put it off or not. No, this has been brought to an end. And I remember when I suggested it here in this House, I was repeatedly told by some politicians and politicians, for example, the YES movement, how educational something is that they do not want to apply, they did not support the proposal, it was here for us, for KDU-ČSL, at least three times designed, until the full conclusion of the Chamber of Deputies, at one of the last meetings, managed to enforce this. So I just need to remind you about the context and the context. Please, don't give some information here deliberately, which you're putting negatively against the actions of this government. The government has done enough to really help them in relation to low-income people in the case of pensions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u177	Thank you, Minister. Now with Mr Juchelka in fact, then Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u178	Thank you very much. I will just complement my honored colleague, Mr Pražák, by your means, because the exact same exodus for ministering to Minister Jurečka has happened and will continue to report, for example, at the employment offices, where some really can no longer and prefer to find another place, or even here at this time, they are taking sick leave. As far as inflation is concerned and how the income is calculated here, of course, for the average wage. After all, the consumer price index is a relevant calculation for pension valorisation. This varies completely differently for households, but it is also counted differently for old-age pensioners. For example, if we had an average consumer price index in 2022, 115.1 (?), that means 15.1 high inflation, so it was a little bit higher for the elderly, it was 15.6. But for example, only for some, because the consumer price index has hundreds of different items, so just for food, it has increased even more than 17 percent. And you, of course, here at the moment, are trying to confuse the citizens of the Czech Republic with these various numbers, economical things. And I'm gonna straighten this place out. All we are dealing with here at the moment is that, following legitimate expectations of old-age pensioners, this government wants to change the amendment to the Emergency Valorisation Act in a very problematic way, on the other hand, in a legislative state of emergency. This is what we're talking about right now. When the legitimate expectation arose a few days ago, the amount for the old-age pensioner was CZK 1,770. Thanks to the government, which is currently proposing this scandalous amendment to the Emergency Valorisation Act, it has fallen to CZK 760. That is why we are talking that the difference of one thousand times seven by the end of the year is CZK 7,000, which thanks to this government will be lost by pensioners in the Czech Republic in 2023. That's right!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u179	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now, Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová, with a point of fact, will be prepared by Minister Jurečka. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u180	Thank you for your word. I would take the liberty of responding by your means to the Minister of Social Affairs about how he boasted that they had reduced the number of officials by 13 percent, or that you had complied with, there was a reduction. So, Minister, I would just like to tell you that there's been some reduction in the sub-offices, that is, in the county social security administration, in the sanitation stations, in the official places closest to the people. And let's see what happened at the ministries. There was an increase of 85 seats, that's the 85 political deputy or something. [[A note from the diaper.]] Yes, that's it. Let me show you, here's a clear analysis, a clear table. And it's interesting that when you approved of the change in systemization, it's interesting when you brag about how much savings you've come up with, there was an increase in funding for 2023. So you didn't come up with any savings at all, and above all, you raised your seats, your jobs. Then there are those places that don't count, and those are the counselors. I don't know how many of them you have. What my colleague was talking about, it's the second group, police officers and firefighters, that doesn't belong to these civil servants' posts. These are, of course, different jobs. So what he's saying here is in no way based on the truth. And once again, I would like to call, we are discussing a confirmation of the duration of the legislative emergency. So I am convinced that we are at a point, and I would like to ask again - where is the Minister of Legislation? Where is he present when we discuss this point? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u181	Thank you, Madame. Minister Jurečka will now speak with priority, Mr Novák will prepare. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u182	Thank you. I don't think it's a priority right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u183	I'm sorry, with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u184	Thank you. With a factual point of view. I don't want to get ahead of myself here. I take the liberty of responding to two things. First thing - the question of leaving the state administration. Either say that and prove it in numbers or don't say it. Indeed, the government has reduced the number of systematic service posts, reduced both in the ministry and out of service, and reduced the project sites. Those are the facts, that's the return to the number of people in 2015. For example, as far as the employment authorities are concerned, unfortunately - I say this unfortunately - the situation has been there for the last three years plus minus the same. I said that last time at the committee meeting. If the members of the ANO movement want to see, I will let them see the letters written by the then Prime Minister to the Minister. He was very specific, even naming problems and people he doesn't consider sufficiently managerial to run the Labor Office. I'll give them to you. I inherited the condition. If I had a great working office after the previous government, I certainly wouldn't be able to screw it up in a year. So we're fixing these things today to get these people back -- first, pay, pay at the employment offices has improved considerably over the past year, and we're making systemic changes to make those people able to work there. I'll ask my colleague Vildumetzová not to lie. Don't let him lie. Because when he looks, for example, in the case of Deputys, there's a condition that was in 2014. We don't have any 80 political deputies here, that's total nonsense. For example, when we look at the issue of salaries and how much we allocate to it, it is logical that even if we reduce the number of officials, but at the same time we want to make a call - and we made a decision last September to increase by 10 per cent in tariffs, plus an increase in chapters above this - we also want to pay those people with dignity. So it's logical that there was an increase year on year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u185	Thank you. Mr Novák will now speak with a factual remark, then Mr Ondřej Babka. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u186	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Thank you so much for the previous speech, Minister, because it is the Labor Office that is a hit parade today, but unfortunately a very sad hit parade. As the Minister has told us here, we are helping the elderly, helping those who need help. But how? You're driving them to those jobs that are collapsing. The trial is completely unhappy, and these people can't handle it. That means the seniors are giving up on the employment office at all. I'm actually interested in how you're planning to take the current step here, the robbery, if you're analyzed, how it's going to turn out. As inflation, of course, increases the cost of living, it also increases the cost of living and goes to other seniors thanks to your step for the dose. Is the Labor Office gonna be okay with you helping them? How are you gonna help them if the Labor Office doesn't make it? I care. And I'm wondering if you've actually analyzed what your current move is going to do and how you're going to take care of these people. Those people who won't even have the strength to go to the employment office anymore, and they won't even have the bus ticket to that city to come to the employment office. It would be very nice, since you're already working so hard for a legislative emergency here, if the legislative emergency would at least speed up the work at the employment offices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u187	I also thank you for keeping time. Another application for a factual remark by Mr Babka and the Minister Válek will be prepared. Ambassador, your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u188	Madam Vice-President, thank you for the floor. I would return here in response to what fell from the mouth of Minister Šalomoun. This is the minister in your government, who is the minister of legislation. He is the Chairman of the Legislative Council of the Government. I see the Minister of Justice here, but he is not in charge of this in your government. Minister Šalomoun has spoken here with some speech, where I think he has not made it quite clear that what we are discussing here today, i.e. confirming the duration of the state of legislative emergency, is a completely happy solution in this case. We have been raising our objections here for the next hour for why confirmation of a legislative emergency is not possible in our opinion. Minister Šalomoun apologized from 12 to 16.30 for work reasons. I cannot imagine, therefore, what these work grounds may be greater or more important than sitting here and listening, or responding to why our objections to the state of legislative emergency are or are not justified. He should be here defending the legislative emergency, listening to our opinions. Unfortunately, I cannot vote here on interrupting the meeting by 16.30 hours, we have already made that clear here, but it is simply not clear to me why the Prime Minister is not here. I think it would be appropriate for us to continue when he is present so that he can respond to us in some way. Unfortunately, there is nothing I can do about it as an ordinary MP. I just want it to be said that, in my opinion, it's not appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u189	I also thank you for keeping the time, and please the Minister of Válek. Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová will be ready. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u190	Thank you, Madam President. I'll try very briefly. I'm not gonna use the terms that somebody's lying or not telling the truth, I'm gonna tell the facts. I have a lot of advisors, they're deans of medical schools. Thank you for advising me on the Scientific Council of the Czech Medical Society. Thank you for giving me advice. It's a number of presidents of professional societies, and it's a number of my friends from the academic world, from medicine, a lot of hospital directors. But this is probably where the 30 counselors fell. I don't know where that number came from. Apparently, they mean appointed advisors. I have such appointed advisors at Ministry 14. There's 14. One, four. [[He graphically draws hands in the air:]] Four looks like a chair, one looks like a whip - 14. There's only one paid for 14 of them. One's paid for. I would like to present to the Chamber of Deputies a comparison of how many advisors my predecessor had and how many of them were paid for. How many deputies did he have and how many of them were paid for and how many did I have? Based on data, hard data and numbers, you can compare who was saving and who was rumouring. Yes, I have dozens, maybe hundreds of health professionals, from the academic world, from medical schools who advise me. I thank them for that, and I hope that they will not be discouraged and will continue to help me. Free! A paid counselor is one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u191	I also thank you for keeping time. Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová is also applying, Minister Jurečka will be prepared. Madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u192	Thank you for the floor. To the Minister of Health. You said those 30 advisors on Sunday's Party, so I hope you know what you're saying in the media. Many people have responded to this very much. But at this point, I would react because I was accused here that I wasn't telling the truth, from the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. Minister, I once handed you the forms here to try to fill out all the forms under the housing supplement, how difficult it is, and that I'll be waiting for you to send it back to me in how long. You practically threw this place away. You didn't care. Now you're accusing me of lying. I'll just hand over this tablet to you to study it. As of January 1, 2022, there were 15 458 officials at the ministries. As of January 1, 2023, there were 15,543. I don't know. It's 85 more, but I'm lying. I'll give it to you. Yes, you've cut down on sub-offices, the county social security administration, the sanitation stations. You've reduced the places closest to the people, and you've increased the papal places in those ministries! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u193	I also thank you for keeping time. There is also Minister Jurečka with his application. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u194	I have to say, I'm sorry if my colleague Vildumetzová here, who, for example, relies on the number of government members, here in the previous performance about an hour ago, talked about it being a government with the largest number of members, and then I pointed out to her on the side to find out the facts, she often says it repeatedly. That's not true. Even the person she said was bowing to his wisdom had more members of the government than this government has. Please, colleague, don't say that. It makes it look like either you don't know, or you're saying it on purpose and you're lying. [[13.10 hours]] When it comes to the locations, I think, unfortunately again I would expect you to know, and you know, when you were the governor of the Karlovy Vary Region, that, really, at the moment that I may be transferring an agenda from that service office, which was my case, which I did, so that I could get the funding of the funds so that it would be successful, so it wouldn't end in trouble, so it's not really a papalayan place. I invite you to join us for an internship, for a week, and you will speak in a completely different way than what you're saying here in ignorance. You always come in here, you fire a lot of stuff, but then when we start to argue with you here, I, Minister Válek and the others, it's just a demonstration that you don't have the facts straightened out. So please, just check these things out. When we talk about the number of officials, I was talking about the total number of civil servants in the field of employment and beyond, and I was also talking about those who are within the project sites. These are all officials who are paid from the state budget or from the European budget and are people who, in some way, create the cost of the state. And here I was comparing the numbers that we're supposed to compare, we're supposed to compare them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u195	Thank you for keeping time. And your performance raised further factual points. First Madam Secretary Černochová. Madam Secretary, please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u196	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I'll be brief. I will only respond to the performance by Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová, who asked where Minister Šalomoun is. The Minister is in the Senate on a permanent commission for the Constitution of the Czech Republic and will deal with possible changes to the Constitution. So I think that's a legitimate reason why the Minister isn't here right now and he can't be.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u197	I also thank you for keeping time. Next is Mr Kubíček's enrollment and Mrs Oulehlová will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u198	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I'd be Minister Válek, he's not here, but he only gently pointed out the counselors and the paid and unpaid ones. I'll tell you a story. I used to sit on the air traffic control board a long time ago, with my former pilot's profession, I think I'm probably very close to being educated, and I got a call from a journalist who asked me how much I'm taking for it. When I told him that there was nothing from the position of MP, he told me: but you have influence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u199	Thank you for keeping time. And now, please, Mrs Oulehlová. Your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u200	I would like to respond to the words of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. About the facts and the office positions. You said you inherited the employment authorities. I'm sure you do. But the state they're in now, that's the result of your work. Because you've put another half a million people who escaped from the war on these crappy jobs, you've put people who have worked or worked their whole lives on them, and they have to hide under your umbrella, some kind of imaginary. Where it's only a little bit possible, they're helping cities because these people are ashamed to go to the office of employment because it's their dehonestation. A person who works or works should then go beg for a dose. A lot of people can't do that mentally. And by the time you've raised the numbers of newcomers to the Labor Office, the officials are leaving the office because they're no longer mentally giving it up, and they're facing a lot of aggression. You're not protecting them. They were chránit by the CEO of the Labor Office you called off. Instead, there's a gentleman who wants a lot of electricity... [[Minister Jurečka from the government bench: Digitize.]] ... just digitize - thank you for your help, Minister - digitize the office. But these people, mostly, they're not bank clients. They don't know that much about technology. So that's why the Labor Office isn't working for you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u201	Time, thank you. Thank you and another with the application is Mr Mašek. Mr Brabec and Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová will be ready. So please, Mr Mašek. Your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u202	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, to Minister Černochová. I am glad that you have tried to apologize to the Minister of Legislation by currently meeting with the Senate Constitutional Commission. But for God's sake, this meeting was called by you as extraordinary. We are talking about such serious matters as the confirmation of the duration of the state of legislative emergency that we, as opposed, question this reason. I think the Minister should be here for sure. And despite the attempt to excuse him in this way, I think the apology is unacceptable from this point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u203	Thank you for keeping time. And with the application, Mr Brabec. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u204	Thank you for the floor. I did not even know that my previous speaker, Mr. Mašek, would speak on this subject. But only to Secretary Černochová, a reminder of something she obviously knows as well as anyone who knows the constitution. According to the Constitution, the government is responsible to the Chamber of Deputies and not to the Senate, with all due respect for the Senate. And if we're discussing a point here today that, for the most part, concerns legislation, it really seems strange to me that the Minister for Legislation will choose the Senate commission instead of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u205	Thank you for keeping time. Furthermore, with Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová's application, Minister Válek will be prepared. Madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u206	Well, thank you. I also thank the Secretary of Defense for telling us where the Minister of Legislation is at the moment. I understand that today's meeting has already been announced in some way. We've known for a long time there'd be an emergency meeting. In my opinion, it was certainly possible to coordinate this in some way, so that the Minister for Legislation would be here at the time of the confirmation of the duration of the legislative emergency. Since we already have him, he should be here because in the past, he wasn't. At the same time, allow me to respond to the words of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs and practically vice-premiere of this country. Minister, I'll just say one thing. I gave you the very helpful table, which states that the number of administrative posts in the ministries has increased. You said, "Don't put it in here," you practically don't care. Then you're here again trying to degenerate me in some way. I'll only say one thing. You may be a minister today, but you may not be one. And I see in you exactly the person whose function has gone to his head incredibly. You're here to represent all citizens and defend their interests, and above all, you're supposed to treat people politely. And there's no way you're doing that. Your behavior is arrogant and arrogant! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u207	Thank you for keeping time. With the application, Minister Válek will prepare the Minister Jurečka. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u208	Thank you, Madam President. By your means, I would like to respond to Mr Kubíček. I think we're definitely in agreement. Counselors have influence, and it's a good thing they have influence. I am very glad that deans of medical faculties have an influence on how health care and teaching students will work. I am extremely pleased that the chairmen of professional societies have an impact on the way education works. I am very pleased that the head of patient organizations have a great influence on how it will look - and now a new - payment decree, because they will have an impact on it as my advisors, and I am extremely glad that representatives of Purkyňka, Czech Medical Chambers, Stomatological Chambers, Pharmaceutical Chambers have influence. Professional organizations, patient associations should have as much effect as possible on the quality of our health. And I am 100% certain, by your means, that we agree with the Member. On the contrary, lobbyists and various health traders should have minimal influence. And if I am a minister, my advisors, i.e. patient organizations, professional associations, chambers, and never lobbyists and health traders will always have the influence!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u209	Thank you for keeping time. Another application, Minister Jurečka, will be prepared by President Schillerová and Mr Brázdil. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u210	Thank you. I must say, I will actually respond to Mrs Vildumetzová. I'm sorry, and I have to look back on it, and it bothers me that when she said that she didn't really say that in her performance, I pointed her out beyond the format of this debate, which she said falsely, she didn't come here in the other performances and said that in this matter: it was misinformation, I apologize for that - and she set it right. [[did not indicate]] She's left that completely unnoticed. I'll be glad if there's really something going on here that, when the public is watching it, they're really true, they're facts. And when we respond to each other, let us respond to what we actually said, and let us not just respond to a riot from the context, which may then seem to be pleasing. But if we just have fun... I was talking here, for example, about the number of civil servants in the state administration as a whole, I said that I was removing educators from it, removing firefighters, police officers, and so on, which are some constant states that we have been trying to keep across all governments for a long time. The fact that we can't get these people into the security forces is not just our problem, it was your problem, under the previous government and under the rule of Bohuslav Sobotka. And really, a little bit like I have to say, it's not entirely fair here to say things like that that you were saying as some kind of subjective assessment on my person. I've been through a time when I was a minister, even when I wasn't a minister. I don't think of it as something that's just something for a person that's supposed to show off in some way. I'm doing the job the best I can. I'd do it in any other position anyway. When I'm performing here, take my performance in nine years, I'm speaking factually, I'm speaking the same way, I'm not stepping out of the rhetoric that I'm saying here, whether I was a minister or an opposition MP. So please, nicely, I don't think these markings and ratings are entirely fair.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u211	Thank you for keeping time. Furthermore, with the application by President Schillerová. Mr Brázdil and Mr Volný will be prepared. Madam President, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u212	Thank you for the floor. I would like to respond to Minister Jurečka, but to the previous one, because before my turn, there are a number of other factual points. I would like to commend the government for spending on the expense side, but if you look under the cover of the systemization that Minister Jurečka boasts, you can see the opposite. It is not a systemic reduction, but it has rather occurred to you - the end of temporary posts due to the Presidency, the end of clever quarantine, the end of the acquisition tax. But you're very lucky that these things allowed you to set up a whole series of newsrooms, and yet the total numbers have really dropped. If the newsstands hadn't been created, the number of places could have been reduced much more. But if we look in detail, the interference doesn't occur much in the ministries themselves. On the contrary, they often swell. For example, officials are increasing at the Office of the Government, at the Ministry of Finance, thinking about the department itself, where new trade unions are being formed, the Deputy Minister's positions, the number of officials is growing at the Ministry of Transport. Really really cancels the seats at the Financial Administration, in the form of the abolition of the acquisition tax, which was actually an initiative under our government, the end of the EET, which will not pay you dearly. 121 vacant posts have been cancelled at the Czech Social Security Administration. Here it is due to an amendment to the budgetary rules that our government has enforced so that the authorities do not have the incentive to accumulate these vacant places and gradually dispose of them. Very often, there has been a cancellation of the seats that have been set up on purpose because of the Presidency that has ended and so on. That means it was fixed for a period of time. So please, if you look into those intestines, the truth is completely different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u213	I also thank you for keeping time. Mr Brázdil also applied for. prosit.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u214	Thank you. In my speech, I would like to respond to Minister Válek, Professor Válek, who spoke a moment ago about not having lobbyists and so on. It's great that he keeps the professional companies and the closet and all that. And I had this personal conversation, but I'm not gonna say anything wrong with the VZP working groups where Mr. Engineer Kalousek is. And he told me - and that is why I would like, if the members of the TOP 09 had taken it, perhaps he is not a lobbyist - he said: The form that is now elected in a legislative emergency can never pass. You know? And now he's telling me what he's been through. So he assured me: Don't worry, the Constitutional Court can't do it any other way than return it, because the form is so badly elected. And he has his own experience with it. Well, once again, this is Mr. Kalousek's advice on TOP 09 and maybe somebody else's. And all we're discussing is whether or not we need to do this in a legislative emergency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u215	I also thank you for keeping time. And lastly, with a point of fact, Mr Volný. Ambassador, your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u216	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, I will be very quick, factual and constructive. I wanted to respond to a speech from my colleague here, Minister Jurečka, when he attacked my honored colleague Jana Vildumetzová who didn't come here, she didn't apologize that she didn't actually say it right and that he said it right. And as part of the whole discussion, his contribution was intersecting: I always speak factually and constructively. Minister, I wonder if you would be able to stand up to this, as you called on colleague Vildumetzová to read here, Mrs Fialová, which means your reaction, which you are, or actually a precise quote, as you responded to a very important law that would protect thousands of human lives in a state of legislative emergency, and how this state of legislative emergency has been called into question. I'd like you to comment on that and compare it with what you said a moment ago: I'm speaking factually and consistently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u217	Thank you for keeping time. Since I no longer register any factual application, they are given priority rights. Mr. Vice-President Havlíček is the first to be logged in. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u218	Madam Vice-President, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government, we are to assess the state of legislative emergency, which would de facto allow me to make one of the biggest frauds in pensioners in the last 30 years. And let's just answer that, because I'm going to stick to the subject, if security is at risk - I'm saying - if freedom isn't threatened - I dare say it's not - if there's a natural disaster - we agree it isn't. And now, of course, the question you're basing it on is whether the economy is at risk. Let's take a look at the numbers. This is the amount of 34 billion that would have to be paid off. It's your proposal that would reduce it to CZK 20 billion, which means we're playing here by CZK 14 billion. You're just planning a deficit, serious government, to CZK 295 billion this year. It can be assumed that it can be even more. If I pulled it up against income, it's almost beneath discernment. If you claim that the economy is at risk, I say that the economy is not at risk. And if you stand by it, then you caused it largely by your own guilt, because the situation was fatally underestimated at the time of the budget. This is the economic dimension of why, in my view, it is not possible to adopt a legislative state. You knew there'd be a valorization. You knew the National Budget Board was pointing that out. And you've been alerted to this several times by the opposition. If we recap, and it's always good to get the data and repeat the numbers, all the more so now that we're in the House, it's 26. 9. You approved the government budget with a deficit of 295 billion crowns. And I say this date because then Prime Minister Fiala spoke at a press conference and said to the letter: For example, we are counting on spending 40 to 50 billion on extraordinary pension valorization. [[13.30 hours]] I'll skip. National Budget Board 8. In 2022, she made it clear that the approved budget was burdened with high uncertainty, risk - and I underline risk - in the direction of a higher deficit, expenditure on extraordinary pension valorisation in 2023. Exactly what I'm saying. On the basis of expected inflation developments, it can therefore be estimated that the 5% threshold for consumer price increases will be exceeded in January 2023 - what the National Budget Board claimed continues - which will mean the launch of an extraordinary valorisation of pension insurance benefits in June. This will therefore require additional expenditure, and at that time the National Budget Board estimated CZK 20 billion, which - I am also stressing, as the National Budget Board said - are not foreseen in the current budget, and therefore, given the high amount, it cannot reasonably be assumed that it will be possible to cover it from savings in other state budget items. I know I don't read anything new. All I'm saying is that you're leaning on the fact that there's an emergency and that this is why a state of legislative emergency has to be made. That's my point. You didn't, of course, put it in that budget, even though the question is why. You put a zero there, and later you argued that it was almost under discernment. So it's an economic threat when it's almost under discernment? The arguments that you didn't put it there, that you had a lot of work to do - don't be mad at me, Minister - that it was the Presidency of the European Union and that there was a war... Yeah, you didn't have it easy, we didn't have it easy in covid, either, and if we took the liberty of doing this, you would tear us apart for this. The fact that we had the Presidency of the European Union does not mean that the budget is not properly combined. And if you're turning it around today that you didn't put that amount in there for this, then I could grab you at your word, and we could say, and then why was there another amount? There was no other amount, it doesn't have any effect. It's out of the question that you've been waiting and that you've just let it go. You knew very well. And we can discuss what the main reason was. Either because you wanted to have the 295 billion as a deficit, which was well below the 300 billion, or because of the presidential election. I think it was a mix of both, but that's my speculation, let each of us or you answer that. So why are we putting this in context with the threat to the economy? Maybe I'd take an argument that I can't see, and that's next year, that's the 58 billion. And I understand one thing here is that you're looking for system savings. But this isn't a system saving. We must say that we are either taking short-term measures or taking long-term measures. If we start with the long-term, system ones, I get it. It is clear that this system is so unsustainable in the future, we agree on that. But you're not taking any systemic measures. You're not presenting pension reform, and we've called on you several times, and I, Minister of Finance, heard you say so this morning, so let's act, but we've called you to the meeting. Madam President Schillerová here at the very beginning, before perhaps we could save all of this, said, so let's sit down and talk about how it's going to be at 1. 1. 2024, or - we have said this several times - we are ready to oppose, sit down, discuss pension reform. That makes sense to me. It's a long-term solution, and even though we don't have to agree on it, like we probably don't agree on a whole lot of things, it's not possible to back up from this. But the first thing is that now you want to help yourself within the 34 billion crowns, so I don't take it. It's not about 34 billion, but of course it's only about the 15 billion, because the partial valorization would take place - and we're talking about 15 billion against the deficit, which I've already said here will definitely be around 300 billion. You have other tools to deal with this year. And I'll tell you exactly what it is. It is clear that valorization is due to inflation, there is no doubt about it, or it should be, and here we can talk about who caused this inflation. I don't want to go into detail here right now, but I do not agree that only the Czech National Bank should fight inflation to say exactly that. Minister of Finance, you said - especially the Czech National Bank, especially the Central Bank. At some point, yes, but at some point, it's a little bit more - and I dare say here that it should have been more under the control of the government since the beginning of the year, that is, it should have been based on fiscal measures. You know very well that a number of fiscal measures could have reduced inflation, whether it is a budgetary measure, which I understand is that it would not be until the end of the year, the issue of price cuts, the question of a certain level of regulation - I am not going to think about what it will bring after, but it certainly has some immediate impact on inflation, it finally had our reduction in value added tax. Of course, we can talk about the labour market, which we also know for sure is having an impact on inflation, and perhaps even in the medium term, different climate measures and so on. In any event, the government also controls inflation to a large extent. Among other things, there was an interesting conference held yesterday, organized by Václav Klaus, where inflation was dealt with a lot, it was not entirely politically exclusive, but clearly there he said that this government failed in the fight against inflation. I didn't say it. The founder of the ODS, former President Klaus, said it. In any case, we have one of the highest inflations in the European Union, which is indisputable, and one of the reasons for this is that energy prices were not observed in 2022. I'm saying it, that's why now, those energy prices, you need to figure out who made the money. Well, they made a lot of money, not all of them, but some of the energy companies. ČEZ will have a gigantic profit this year. Yes, you want to tax him in some way in time, but in any case, he has the profit. This means that it is fair for a certain part of this profit to go towards, for example, those pensioners, because if they are to be compared to inflation, and that inflation is caused by, among other things, electricity or energy prices, and it is made by CEZ, because we did not go after what we said in time, that is, prices have not been determined by those producers, which would be... however complicated it would be anti-inflationary measures, so at the moment it is one of the sources, I am not saying a single source, but in any case, it does not seem fair to me that we cut the pensioners and allow them to earn energy companies. Next, I'm sure you'll have more resources in what you've been planning to compensate for the ceiling. To put it simply, you have set ceilings at 5,000 or 2,500, respectively - I am talking about electricity and gas. As we all know, today these prices are below this level, which implies that the state will most likely not be forced to compensate as many electricity traders or energy traders as expected. Now, if I recall correctly, it was planned at the level of CZK 100 billion. So far, it looks like it's going to be considerably less. This means, in my opinion, there is quite a big difference in the fact that it is chosen more. Yeah, it's not going to pick up the other side about what was supposed to be, it means we have a windfall tax, and we have those over-profit payments, but with that windfall tax, I think it's going to be collected, but in any case, at this point, it's going to be quite reasonable to assume that it's going to be in favor of the state or in favor of the government, which means it's not going to compensate for what was supposed to be. And for another thing, we have inflationary revenue here. None of them are likely to be happy, but in any case, there are inflationary revenues. And you've always said, dear members of the government, that we shouldn't remind you so much because they're burdened with inflation spending again. I understand that. They are. Among other things, by valorizing the pensions. That means there's inflation spending going back to those revenues. So I'm still just saying one thing, we're not talking about tens of billions of crowns this year. Legal valorisation versus your proposal, we're talking about 14, 15, 20 billion crowns tops. I believe that the resources that I have shown here - and we are still talking about these economic factors - these resources would cover it without any major problems and avoid what you call being in a state of economic danger. This is what I've been trying to show you that there is no economic threat. Finally, Mr Finance Minister, I think on Sunday at the OVM, you admitted to a large extent when you said that the budget would have to deal with it. I think you might have a worse skeleton than this - 2023, we're still having fun. Then, of course, there's the social dimension. It's absolutely essential. Because I do not consider it normal for us to increase the salaries of constitutional officials by 12 per cent - just remember how much money is involved: for a Member of around 100 000, for ministers it is 150 to 180,000 - and at the same time to reduce the valorisation of pensioners. [[13.40 hours]] Or is it normal for us to pay full interest to church restituents at the rate of inflation, which, among other things, amounts to CZK 7.5 billion? I don't blame you for doing this, it's been done here in the past, and let's talk about why there was an inflation clause. It's just there. But we have two cases here today. The first is when we tell church restituents: we pay it according to the law. And it seems fair to me. It's not against the churches. It's just there. holt's how it's done in the past, so it's going to cost $7.5 billion. In 2022, I suspect it will be paid in 2024, but that's not relevant now. Why don't you do it the same way with the other group? How do we explain this to the other group? So either we measure them all the same, or we cut them all short. But then let's play the fair game! So let us not raise our salaries as constitutional officials, as politicians, then let us pay those churches less and then maybe it is also partially defensive. I'm saying part of it, but it would at least point to the fact that you're trying to do it a little fair. But to take it away from the elderly who legally own it, that's really something incredible! I might still take it if those measures were to hit the middle generation, however much we might not like it, and maybe we'd be complaining about it, too, but I still don't think from a social point of view, but I'm convinced that a person who's 30 or 40 or 50 years old still has an option. Maybe he can get a job somewhere. He's able to take care of himself, if of course he's healthy. And how do we explain that to a man who's 80 years old? How do we explain this to a widower or widow who has an apartment today that is loaded with energy that is extremely expensive, food flies 27 percent up year-on-year? That's their main expense. These are higher than the inflation ones. I know it's in the inflation formula, but let's do the math. We can't really mean that we're saying that if we pick up and they're 18, 19 or 20, they're de facto in good shape. We can all see that we can't get along with it! And if so, it's on the absolute edge. Let's try it on. It's so easy to say when we're sitting here in those palaces, in those offices, when we're taking 150, 200, 250,000, how great it is to live with 18, with 20,000! It's not easy. It's not a lottery win for them, which is why I'm saying that taking this group that can't defend itself is the worst thing we can do. It's morbid! I refuse strictly that the pensioner is indebted. It's not like that. These people here have worked in the vast majority, worked their professional lives, and the state is a debtor in this case, and they must therefore be treated as a debtor. And if we're having trouble adjusting inflation, then we have to pay for it. Let's talk about whose guilt this is higher. But there's a law here, and we want nothing more than to keep that law today. And if the law changes, which, of course, you have a legitimate right to, you finally have a hundred and eighty, maybe even today a hundred and nine, then, as I said, it has to be measured in the same way to everyone, and I assume that it will change in those religious restitutions, or in those constitutional factors. And then we have a legal dimension here, and that's probably the most important part of my performance, because that's what all this should be about. But it's always got to be said about the correlations. We have here legal opinions that you are not acting in accordance with constitutional law in two areas. The first is the unconstitutional state of legislative emergency. According to Section 99 paragraph and so on, the state of legislative emergency can be declared in exceptional circumstances. I will repeat this once again: fundamental rights and freedoms, security of the state, or significant economic damage must be significantly threatened. It's significant. I tried to explain why they weren't significant in 2023, and we made it clear, let's discuss how it's going to be from those years to the next. You certainly know, and today it will happen many times, that in 2010 the government of Petr Nečas wanted to use the state of legislative emergency too, and this was to cutbacks as a result of the economic crisis. And it was in the accelerated regime that she voted, among other things, to limit state support for building savings. At that time, the opposition Social Democrats turned to the Constitutional Court. He gave them the benefit of the doubt and abolished the passed laws. But what is important is that the Constitutional Court summarized that the condition of declaring a state of legislative emergency is an extraordinary circumstance that is out of the ordinary course of political processes or, for example, a natural disaster. Please, if we look away from the fact that we don't have a natural disaster again, is there anything out of the ordinary going on in political processes? I don't think so. That's what we're leaning on. Yes, the coalition's representatives claim that an extraordinary circumstance has arisen. For example, President Benda claims that if there was literally some sensible speech with the opposition and we didn't have a rabid crowd of populists here - I quote him - we could go some other way. But I don't think we have any other path ahead of us at the moment. Let's do it again. I explained in 2023, in 2024 we propose that we start discussing this. Is that something populist? Is there anything populist about the fact that we want the year 2023 to be done legally? It was exactly the same as it was 13 years ago, or when it was, because back then it was also argued that there was no way to negotiate with the opposition. Finally, the Constitutional Court ruled quite clearly. And, among other things, back then, it was largely motivated by the fact that they were, if I'm not mistaken, an election. But let's take a look at one interesting thing and that's a find from the plenary of the Constitutional Court. It was April 19, 2011. The announcement of the state of legislative emergency and the discussion of the draft law in the short-term negotiations substantially alters the structure of the legislative process and restricts its substance to expressing its consent or disagreement. And this procedure can only be accepted as an exception to the rule, provided that the interest in the immediate adoption of the law in the context of specific circumstances outweighs the general requirements arising from constitutional order in relation to the legislative process. However, the use of this extraordinary institute as a normal tool for limiting parliamentary legislative procedures cannot be accepted. Whenever the opposition has expressed its opposition to the bill and to prevent or delay its adoption, it shall use the rules of procedure laid down... and so forth. And a quote from the judicature. The Constitutional Order explicitly admits the possibility of discussing the Government's bill in a short hearing only on the basis of Article 8 of the Constitutional Act on Security of the Czech Republic, at a time of state or state of war. And now we can quote a whole series of lawyers. I have no doubt you had to deal with them. Among other things, even though we met with President Schillerová and Mr President, he also had a number of analyses, and he also quite seriously doubted that the legislative emergency situation plus, moreover, the retroactivity that I am about to reach is really on the edge, if not behind the edge. For example, constitutional lawyer Marek Antoš last week: The state of legislative emergency under the law can only be declared in exceptional circumstances where fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens or the security of the state or when the State is threatened with significant economic damage. Now, interestingly, the case where the government did not respond in time to developments - once again, constitutional lawyer Antoš - when the government did not respond in time to developments that have been known for a number of months, and now at the last moment, or perhaps even retrospectively trying to enforce a change of law and fear the obstruction of the opposition, certainly cannot be regarded as an exceptional circumstance. So much constitutional lawyer Antoš. And now he's taking the whole place apart, and he's even comparing it to the year 2010 when the Constitutional Court knocked it down. And it adds, which is quite interesting: The situation of today differs only in one thing: it was not yet a clear question, while today we have the Constitutional Court's decision at our disposal. [[13.50 hours]] Let's remember one more thing, among other things, is continued by Professor Antoš or Dr. Antoš. If the government is really going to push for a change in pensions in a state of legislative emergency, it seems very likely that it will run into the Constitutional Court, which can also bring further damage - repayment and so on. So going down this road for all sorts of reasons seems like gambling to me. Do we want to take this under the responsibility? Is it really worth the year 2023, Minister? I don't question 15 billion, I know it's a lot. But do we realize what kind of delusion this is if it doesn't turn out? I don't know what the Constitutional Court will decide. We have an opinion that he can decide against you. You may have arguments that he can decide in your favor. But who will take the responsibility of you - will it be you, Minister, or one of the ministers, or the Prime Minister - when the pensioners are paid back, I don't know, several billion crowns? Can you imagine what they're gonna sue for? What's going to happen here? Ondřej Preuss, also a constitutional lawyer. It's a legislative emergency. I don't know if he's a constitutional lawyer, that's something that's been argued about, but it doesn't matter. A legislative emergency must really be based on extraordinary circumstances, which is not here. The situation is not extraordinary because it was known in advance. Zdeněk Koudelka. I consider declaring a state of legislative emergency to be inconvenient because it is intended for things that come suddenly. For example, floods will come, and their consequences will have to be dealt with quickly. But the fact that we have record inflation and that certain provisions in the Pension Valorisation Act apply, the government knew all year round and could already come up with a normal legislative process and some solution in September or October. So much lawyer Koudelka. So that's the duration of a legislative emergency. But there's one more important thing, and that's the retroactivity that lawyers also question. Pursuant to Section 67 of the Pension Insurance Act, and so on, all the relevant circumstances which give rise to the Government's obligation to implement the Valorisation Regulation have arisen. The increase in pensions must be determined by the government, as we all know, within 50 days of the last day of the calendar month in which price growth has reached at least 5%. In this case, it's 22. 3. Even the percentage is known. Yet the rules are changing backwards. And let's really not underestimate the retroactivity. This ban on retroactivity is imported many times by, for example, the Constitutional Court, for example, by finding 13. 6. 2002, but I've got more here, I'll only read one. The basic principles defining the category of rule of law, which is also the Czech Republic, include the principle of protecting citizens' trust in law and the associated principle of non-retroactivity, i.e. the retroactivity of legal standards. For example, I quote Mr Kysela, who is certainly not a constitutional lawyer who would oppose the opposition. He said it cautiously, but quite clearly: "When I read the law, I felt that the right to an increase arose. I had the impression that there really wasn't much to do with June's valorization." And Zdeněk Koudelka again. In the current Pension Insurance Act, the valorisation increase in pensions is set as a mandatorial automaton. Once the conditions are met, current seniors are entitled to an increase in pension. In fact, the conditions were fulfilled because of high inflation, and the Constitutional Court has already stated several times that if a law arises, even if the law is not yet effective, such a right cannot be withdrawn unilaterally. I could quote more and more. But I'm about to come to a conclusion. I've been trying to stick to the facts, and I'm going to sum up what we're blaming you for. One thing that's unethical. That it's antisocial. That it's unfair. But to tell you the truth, you have every right. You have most of it. We can argue politically here, when we say it's wrong, you say it's good. You'll use economic arguments, we'll try to show economic arguments too, we'll use social arguments, I'll take everything. That's what the House is for, and that's what political competition is for. We're going to argue that it's wrong that you're going to be cutting it short for the elderly and that you might be following the inflation elsewhere. But just because you have the right doesn't mean you're going to rape the law at the moment. They apply to all, Your Majesty. No matter if you have 108, 109, or if you have more. And you're reacting to one thing. You buy a mistake for a mistake, you don't put it in your budget, you miss all the legal deadlines for changes that you could have made during at least January, boyishly here, that it wasn't given by any presidential choice. After all, we all know that the presidential election played an important role in this, and if you had done it before, you might have avoided this. You boast of unrealistic budgets below 300 billion. If we draw your attention to this, you're laughing at us and counting on it all to pass in the House. Maybe you will, maybe you'll push it through eventually. We'll do everything we can to make sure it doesn't happen. Everything. But we still have the Senate. You must know very well that there are great doubts about this in the Senate. Even your five-police partners are questioning it. And it'll still be at the president's. Let's see how he gets up to it. He didn't say any definite position. But the fact that he had doubts, when he told us, he definitely had to tell you. But I believe that whoever doesn't forgive you will be citizens. And not just those involved, or seniors. I'm convinced that every judge thinks. And I have to say, I've been hearing from relatively a lot of people lately who maybe are your constituents, and they don't like it. They're not even the ones that it doesn't touch, they're not retired. And they may not blame you for the economic considerations, but they blame you for the way you do it. 'Cause tonight on the edge of the law, if you don't go after the edge of the law, you can do that tomorrow with businessmen, teachers, paramedics, I don't know who. So, citizens, remember, next time it could be you. And please, don't forget it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u219	Well, thank you. Your speech raised a factual remark from Minister Stanjura. Minister, please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u220	I will try my best in fact, because Vice-President Havlíček also spoke in fact and in fact most of the time, I would appreciate and thank you. Firstly, I took the job of reading the debate on the budget in the first, second, third reading and amendments. Not only did the coalition, but the opposition didn't warn. Today you all say: we all knew there was no money. It didn't come from your performance. I don't blame you, I'm just stating. And there wasn't a single amendment in that direction. Unfortunately, Vice-President Havlíček is wrong that the valorisation only affects this year. It's not true. If that were true, the debate is much simpler, and it is likely that we would have chosen different methods of solution. But I think we know that it has an impact on future years. And only in two years - 2023, 2024 - that impact is 100 billion. No one guessed the increase would be so big. The limit was 20 billion. And then the impact next year is much lower. So the difference is real. And that's the unexpected reality. Not that inflation exceeded 5%. That's what I think is quite expected. The debate was what month it's gonna be. But that's what surprised the experts. I haven't noticed a single expert opinion that it's going to be as high as it is. That's why we're dealing with this. And that's why it has an impact for the next few years. And I will prepare, and there will certainly be enough time during the debate to give you the impact for the years 2025, 2026. I welcome the offer to debate the standard adjustment. But if we don't do it now, it's with all the impact on the state budget over the next ten or more years. That's just the way it is. So it's not true that it's only a question of the year 2023, that would be an extraordinary contribution to retirement and not extraordinary valorisation. The moment it's used, it acts as a proper valorization and translates into all other valorizations, and that's the biggest economic problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u221	Thank you for keeping time. No one with another factual comment is making any more comments, so we can proceed to another priority right, namely Mr Tomio Okamura. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u222	Ladies and gentlemen, the SPD movement strongly protests against Fialův's five-callice government plan to rob Czech pensioners. And the government wants to take advantage of the legislative emergency. Stealing from beneficiaries of old-age, disabled, widowed, orphan's pensions on the law given valorisation is, in the opinion of the SPD, contrary to the constitution and to all principles of decency and morality. And you're only doing this so that your government will account for the expenses your government is throwing out of national ruins to send weapons to Ukraine. To provoke war, to support economic migrants mainly from Ukraine, to censorship, to parasitic political nonprofits and to dozens of others, not only useless but also often very harmful and bad things. So Prime Minister Petr Fiala bragged here last week in a video, we all saw it on TV that the Fialův government had already sent 40 billion crowns worth of material to Ukraine. Weapons worth 40 billion crowns. This is another CZK 10 billion to support Ukrajinec in the Czech Republic. So for Ukrainians and Ukraine 50 billion, and it will be even more, but for Czech pension recipients, for Czech disabled, old-age, widowed and orphaned pensioners, you do not have 19 billion. So the Fialův government threw our pension recipients, and almost 3 million citizens already are, so you threw them all overboard. And you chose Ukraine and Ukrajinec. You have chosen the interests of Brussels, the interests of the United States, simply the interests of foreign countries. The SPD movement will do its utmost to prevent the adoption of a government counter-constitutional bill aimed at robbing our pensioners, and we are preparing to file a constitutional complaint. We will be here in the House at today's beginning and ongoing emergency meeting with all legal means available to block the approval of the government's antisocial proposal by Petr Fiala from the ODS, to whom the current five-wheelers intend to rob all pensioners, all pension recipients, by an average of more than CZK 1,000 a month. That means it's going to be 1,000 every month this year, 12,000 on average next year, and so on. This is a disgraceful government attack on one of our fellow citizens' most socially threatened groups. This is an insidious attack on people who worked honestly for the Czech state for decades, paid taxes and compulsory insurance, assault on disabled people, widowed citizens and orphans. We'll never accept that. In our opinion and in the opinion of many legal experts, the Government's procedure is contrary to the Constitution. First, they change the conditions for raising pensions back after they have been legally implemented. Secondly, the Government's procedure is also contrary to the Constitution because the Government wants to approve this proposal in a short hearing at an emergency meeting of the Chamber of Deputies in a state of legislative emergency, which is reserved only for emergencies such as large-scale natural disasters, epidemics, threats to security or economic damage. None of this happened. And the government had an assumption of inflation for this year already at the time of the approval of the state budget for this year, and therefore it should have included these expenditures in the budget at that time. But that did not happen. The Fialův government is now arguing threatening economic damage, but since the beginning of government, the government's five-callice itself has been causing its incompetence and inactivity, and you have now taken all the pension recipients for the victims of your rule. That is truly disgusting from the government. We are therefore prepared to sue the Constitutional Court for the SPD against this law. Tens of billions of crowns on current pension valorization can be found very quickly by reducing overpriced military purchases from abroad, payments to the European Union or Ukraine. Government also enormously increased revenue in connection with higher collection of indirect taxes due to unmanaged inflation, by CZK 137 billion. The SPD movement will prevent the adoption of a government bill aimed at robbing our pensioners with all its might. We are also making 102 amendments to it, which would ensure our pensioners such an increase in pensions that they are legally entitled to and morally entitled to. The SPD is firmly behind all pension recipients. Let me quote the arguments of the Fialův Government, i.e. the Ministry of Social Affairs and the poor work of the Minister and Chairman of the KDU-ČSL Jurečka. Why do the ODS, STAN, Pirates, KDU-ČSL and TOP 09 have to steal a total of CZK 34 billion from pensioners? Representatives of this enemy office citizen, who would otherwise have been friendly if he hadn't been led by the Fialův's five-calice government, but now the ministry is led by the folklore, so they say that - quote: Valorizing pensions without approved adjustments would have meant an increase in public finances deficit by more than CZK 34 billion this year and up to CZK 58 billion next year. The change in valuations is the first step towards strengthening the long-term sustainability of the pension system. End of quote. And the Prime Minister of National Doom, Petr Fiala of the ODS, said about this - and I quote: We felt the need to reach into this mechanism also from the point of view of the general justice of intergenerational solidarity and sustainability in the future. End of quote. And the Minister of Finance and Vice-President of the ODS Zbyněk Stanjura recalled that, in his view, the ratio of pensions to gross wages needs to be adjusted and average pensions are, in his view, too high to average wages. I will allow these shameless lies and the excuses of the antisocial representatives of the Fialův government to smash quickly and simply. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, the argument that stealing 34 billion is necessary to maintain a lower deficit is a misguided and immoral moment when the government approved in October last year, and it was 19. 10. Use of the loan up to €400,000, which is about CZK 9.8 billion, from the development bank of Europe to the basic needs of Ukrajinec in the Czech Republic. According to the Ministry of Finance, the loan received increases the government debt and therefore the debt of the general government sector, to the same extent as in the case of the sale of government bonds. Moreover, ten billion debt in this case costs the Czech Republic more than half a billion crowns a year in interest. And then in December last year, the government approved further credit acceptance, this time EUR 200,000, which is CZK 4.9 billion, from the European Investment Bank, again for migrants from Ukraine. So you have money for Ukrajinec, but for almost 3 million Czech pension recipients - and again I say, you want to rob both old-age pensioners and disabled pension recipients, as well as widows, orphans and widowers. So for our pensioners, for our citizens, you don't have the money, but for Ukrainians, you have tens of billions. And I say, I am paid by Czech citizens and will defend the interest of Czech citizens. And if anyone wants to defend the interests of foreigners and foreign countries, then move there and do politics there. [[14.10 hours]] Another priority for the Fialův Government, which the government says, even if he doesn't have a pensioner for bread, is the Ministry of Defence's budget. There they want to increase the next budget to a government dreamed of 2% of GDP, which is about CZK 50 billion more. Well, the salaries of constitutional officials will rise by about 13 percent, because the Fialův government, members of the Purple Five-calice government, has increased the salaries of politicians. Here I would remind you that the SPD has repeatedly proposed freezing politicians' salaries for the entire parliamentary term. Last year, you rejected my proposal here. So the SPD is repeatedly proposing here, and I have also proposed this in the last parliamentary term, freezing politicians' salaries for the entire parliamentary term. You turned me down, you rejected the SPD. Well, now you want to rob old people. Prime Minister Fiala publicly confirmed that Ukraine received CZK 40 billion worth of weapons from the Czech Republic. Add to this the enormous permanent support of political non-profit organizations called brainwashers, such as Man in Need, European values, and so on. For these political nonprofits, money will also be found in the Fialův Government, and none of the government will cut it or want to cut it. On the contrary, the Fialův Government is creating new projects that will increase the supply of money to various parasites in exchange for participating in pro-government propaganda and censorship, for contributing to the reduction of the constitutional rights of citizens, for helping to suppress the free views and speeches of the citizens of this country, who feed these nonprofits and the Fialův government with their work and their money. These are hundreds of needless billions to be thrown out of madness called Green Deal, which is destroying our economy, our citizens, our businesses and our businessmen, and which, of course, reduces the revenue of the state budget. Here I would like to remind you that the Fialův Government Five-Callice rejected last year's SPD bill to end the abuse of social benefits by so-called inadaptables. By the way, that would save the circus a billion crowns. So you're inadaptable and you support strangers, but at the same time you don't have any money, and you still want to lower the money for our needy citizens who have worked here for a lifetime or are widowers, orphans or were born with a health disability. But these citizens and their ancestors were building the Czech Republic, and I am convinced by the SPD that our citizens have a priori right to decent lives, because, and I will get to that, because of the Fialův Government's failed inflation, millions of people are coming to the border or below the poverty line. We could probably name dozens of other examples from all the Fialův government departments, and we'd only come to an outrageous waste of money from companies and citizens. It is quite clear and undisputed to see that when the government wants to spend money, it has no problem spending money, and even to become headlessly indebted. It is only about what the government wants to spend this citizens' money on - weapons, migrants, Ukraine, Green Deal, censorship, new and new offices and newsrooms. That's what money is for. Here I'll remind you that the government five-wheelers voted here a few weeks ago, despite the SPD's resistance, of course, to set up a new office for a billion crowns with over 200 employees. It's supposed to be a monument to the pirát who want to stab some of their political junkies. It's the Digitalization Office, even though the Digitization Union works. I will remind you that you have voted here to abolish the Deputy Ministers and to vote on an unlimited number of political deputy ministers so that there can be an unlimited number of your political representatives from among your fellow parties. So you have the money for that, but for the citizens needed, for example, for pension recipients or for the support of working families with children, single mothers and so on, you don't have the money for that. You don't want to. Money is, but you don't want to put money on it. As far as pensioners are concerned, about 34 billion that would swallow pension valorizations, the Fialův government simply doesn't want to give money to it and it won't. This clearly shows the priorities of the Fialův Government. It shows what the government is up to. I repeat, billions in Brussels, in Ukraine, in the United States armory, all the money is for that, and the government doesn't intend to save. There's no need for money to be spent on the elderly according to Fialův's government five-caliber. That is the opinion of this antisocial government. And please all pensioners, pension recipients, whoever they voted for to realize what this government proposed by the law tells all people. The Fialův Government says that the citizens of the Czech Republic are not interested in them. The poorest, according to the Fialův government, may starve and cold, and the richer, hide in behalf of billionaires from Europe, the US and Ukraine. After all, we have all read this article when, based on the international anti-corruption organization Transparency International - and it was written in the Czech Republic as well as mainstream media such as List, News and so on - so since the start of the conflict in Ukraine last February, Ukrainian MPs have bought a record volume of super luxury cars. They bought Rolls-Roycy, Mercedes-AMG. Well, they paid cash, and the cars write to their relatives. This is the situation in Ukraine. Apparently, it's safe in Kiev to buy a new Mercedes-AMG for $4.5 million and a $10 million Rolls-Roycy and go there. Where do they get it from, then? Well, I have a feeling we paid them at least partially, too. That's the reality of Fialův's government policy. That's not what anyone's asking. That's not what anyone's asking. The above arguments, which I have summed up here, would suffice, but I would like to draw attention to the utter absurdity of other government arguments. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister Fiala wants to rob pensioners, as he says in terms of general justice, intergenerational solidarity and sustainability for the future. Everyone will probably realize that when it comes to the sustainability of the budget for the future, he should not use the arguments of the infamous Mr Kalousek that our state budget has been eaten by pensioners. This says TOP 09, the government party, the closest partner of the ODS in the government, but also in their coalition, in the coalition of the SOPO. In the SPD's view, to balance the budget, it is sufficient not to rob and distribute state money to billionaires or parasites and other stupidities and to dispose of state money effectively, on the one hand, to build additional revenue into the state budget, not just from taxes, and to finance the very lack of state spending on social affairs or on health care. It's a standard that applies throughout the developed world. All you have to do is look at Germany. Germany is the classic case where Čech in škodovka earn German pensions. Another, even more trivial, case is a comparison between the Czech and German Deutsche Post. While Czech Post has been staggering on the edge of sustainability for decades and mostly survives thanks to support from the state, Deutsche Post bought the company PPL in the Czech Republic and not only successfully competes with the Czech state post office in the field of delivery, but of course it is highly profitable and earnings are again directed to the German state budget. [[14.20 hours]] Intergenerational solidarity and general justice are appropriate, but in the form of solidarity with pensioners and justice towards them. This is also related to the obtuse argument of Minister Stanjura of the ODS regarding the ratio of pensions to gross wages. We've experienced a record explosion of prizes. And what valorisation serves, what the principle has been set for, is not to equal pensions to some given level of real wages, but the goal and reason is only one: to compensate pensioners for price growth so that they have something to live for. So if anyone wants to compare anything, the only relevant figure is price growth. In the case of pensioners, and this needs to be stressed and realized, the consumer basket is completely different from the consumer basket of the middle-class family. Pensioners do not deal with prices of cars, holidays, tickets, luxury goods or most consumer goods, such as electronics or fashion clothing, but for them are key prices of housing, energy, water, food and medicine. Here, energy is a very significant percentage. For some people, this is even the larger part of spending. And here prices have multiplied for many. They didn't grow by percentages, they grew by multiples. If a pensioner has 10,000 pensions and has 10 to 15,000 advances, he's in a hell of an emergency. And really, politely speaking, only a very immoral person can compare the average income with the average wage and claim that pensioners must contribute to the resolution of the financial difficulties that pensioners have not caused, but are primarily caused by this Fialův's five-coal government. True, with the help of the governments of the past. Indeed, it is an outrage and rudeness of an unprecedented degree to ask for those who built this country, who provided you with the income you scattered to reclaim your literal robbery of our common property and common income. And here, of course, is the full responsibility of the government's five-calice Petr Fiala and also the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura of the ODS. And once again, we are on the principle that governs this government and expressed by a retired person in the words - I quote: "The foreigners are eating mountains down and robbing their own people." The end of this, from my point of view, is a true quote. Of course, the government's proposal to reduce the valorisation of pensions, which is due since June, is completely unacceptable to punish pensioners for the errors of this Fialův government. If anyone is talking about justice, this proposal, of course, contradicts all the principles of justice, not only the moral one, but also the formal, legislative one. The proposal violates constitutionality, due to retroactivity, the principle of expectation and equal treatment. From the point of view of constitutional principles, such an approach bears the signs of arbitraryness, which the Constitutional Court repeatedly calls inadmissible in its findings. Pensioners rightly trusted the Czech laws, and the law made it clear what pension valorization should be. The Czech Government is only required to issue a technical regulation under the existing law. If it wants to change anything, the House can adopt a new law, but it must apply to the future, not to current inflation, but to inflation from the date of adoption of such a law. The government's changing view of the parameters of the past is clearly unconstitutional retroactivity. That's why the SPD wants to file a constitutional complaint. The government is clearly aware that the law is a truly unconstitutional paquilas that normal lawyers would throw under their table. That is why the Fialův Government went around and cheated on the standard legislative process to which the government committed itself in its programming declaration. By sending a proposal to a one-day notice procedure, the requirement of the Labour Code is not fulfilled, according to which the draft laws relating to the important interests of workers are discussed with the relevant trade unions and employers' organisations. It is therefore impossible to discuss the proposed legislation by the Legislative Council of the Government to prevent a responsible assessment, in particular, of the constitutionality of the proposed legislation, in respect of the lack of respect for legitimate expectations on the part of pensioners concerning the above statutory valuation of their pensions, the fundamental importance of which has been highlighted in the past by the Constitutional Court in a number of its findings. The government explanatory memorandum does not cover the fact that pension reform is not the aim of the proposed adjustment, but the effort to reduce this year's state budget deficit, which does not, of course, count on spending on June's pension valorisation, although already at the time when the national budget for 2023 was approved, it was clear that inflation would be dramatically high this year. This is not, in essence, a measure aimed at reforming or modernising the Czech pension system, but a step in the fiscal policy of the Fialův Government, which does not address the problems of public finance imbalances, which are itself significantly involved in tax and pension insurance measures, which reduce the revenue of the state budget to debt. In quotes on debt. I would also recall the opinion of the Council of the Czech Moravian Confederation of Trade Unions, which considers it unacceptable to ignore social dialogue in such an important area as pension reform. But I'm gonna stop by the pension reform. In accordance with the opinion of the SPD, the Government's proposal to extend the retirement age is unacceptable, especially in relation to the length of working time in the Czech Republic and the health status of employees. It also rejects the steps taken by the government which reduce the amount of funds in the social insurance scheme. ČMKOS, which means the Czech Moravian Confederation of Trade Unions, demanded that these steps be stopped in 2021. Furthermore, trade unions are calling on the government not to make the situation of pensioners worse by deteriorating the valorisation mechanism vis-à-vis existing and future pensioners. The unions consider the government's priority task during this period of stabilization of public finances so that pension reform is not abused for this purpose. But the Fialův government is deaf and blind to all these challenges. In our view, stabilization of public finances must not be achieved at the expense of one of the most economically endangered groups of persons, and that group is all beneficiaries of pensions. The social consequences of the government's proposal are very difficult for many pensioners, and many people receiving pensions have been put into extreme need due to inflation and growth in energy prices. Of course, they're not alone. The whole family's involved. Families with children, singles, disabled people got extreme growth in housing costs, food, medicines and medical aids in a desperate economic situation. And the extreme cost increase was caused by the Fialův government. Let us remember that a retired person, a disabled person, or a mom with children usually doesn't earn much anywhere, and they don't have a chance to help themselves, like a normal healthy person of working age. [[14.30 hours]] This group of people needs help here, and they really need the money. And there's no comparison of the mean here. These people have to pay rent, food, water, heat, electricity. And here, the price level just doesn't give a shit about your averages, it's just high and it keeps growing. Instead of cutting prices, instead of quick economic aid to the most vulnerable, i.e. families, disabled or old people, the government takes money away from them so that they can spend elsewhere. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand the screams of some crazy pro-government activists. But you, government MPs, are meeting real street people, I hope. So please don't help your government destroy this country. Do not help this government to beg the most vulnerable, those who cannot help themselves. You're arguing here today, and I've heard it over and over again now, on the basis of the fact that you've put forward a proposal here that you want to rob across the board of nearly 3 million citizens of the Czech Republic, so you're saying it's okay when you're pushing it in a state of so-called legislative emergency, and you're arguing that there's considerable economic damage - which you yourself have caused, your Fialův government. And now you want to take nearly 3 million pension recipients as scapegoats and take their money. Well, that's not true, and I will, of course, take this moment apart in more detail. What is the current state of the Purple government's annual activity? Well, a year and a quarter. You're in government for a year and a quarter. Long enough. Already a million Czech citizens live below the poverty line because of the Fialův government. Their numbers have increased significantly during the current Fialův government, during the current Fialův government. The decline in real wages in the Czech Republic is the most significant of all the Member States of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, OECD, in summary, from basically all European states. The increase in minimum wages and basic components of pensions is simply not enough for the SPD. So you want to rob the elderly, we want to give them a raise. The crucial difference between the five-calice program of the government Petr Fiala and the SPD. According to data, a million Czech citizens already live below the poverty line and another million are at risk of poverty. Czech citizens are pooring even faster than the average in the European Union. In the European Union, many poverty indicators, such as homelessness and so on, have rapidly deepened in recent years. The number of Czech households with income below the poverty line increased from 9 percent during the Fialův Government during 2021 to 17 percent at present. There are around 9 percent of the population in the execution, and in some poorer regions it is even up to 16 percent. So these are the results of the Fialův government. Whoever brings the Czech Republic here, and you have brought it into considerable economic damage to all citizens, is you - Prime Minister Petr Fiala and the government's five ODS, TOP 09, STAN, Pirates and KDU-ČSL. I would perhaps just turn here and remind you that the SPD is already here, by the way, from the last parliamentary term, but in this parliamentary term we have re-submitted it, so here lies our bill on nationalisation of executors, but it is hindered both by members of the ANO movement and members of the government's five-calice movement. The SPD movement is the only party in parliament that wants to nationalize executors. But let us go back to the report on the European network against poverty. The report further states that 25 percent of Czech households cannot afford a sudden expenditure of around CZK 10,000 without debt. The average Czech household spends 48 percent of its income on housing and food, and low-income households account for up to 70 percent of their income. That's the result! That's the result of the rule of Fialův's five-caliber government. The five-calice government of Prime Minister Petr Fiala of the ODS clearly bears responsibility for this situation, which, on the one hand, directly causes its incompetent policy to increase all basic cost of living and needs and, on the other hand, refuses to help citizens mitigate the effects of the increase. But not only do you refuse to help and support citizens, but you even want to rob them of the money that they have guaranteed by law in relation to the value of pensions. You want to change the law with purpose. As a result of the Czech Fialův Government's harmful policy, our working citizens are facing the highest annual decline in real wages, by less 8.9 percent, among the countries associated with the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, the OECD, i.e. virtually all European countries and many non-European countries. And in this situation, at a time when the Governor of the Czech National Bank forecastes further high inflation, the Fialův Government, by the way, decided to increase the minimum wage by just 6.8 percent and the basic component of pensions by only CZK 140. But I'm talking about the situation a few weeks ago. The degree of sociality and inability of the Fialův Government has no equivalent in modern Czech history. And the SPD will continue to use all political possibilities from the opposition to put an end to the harmful effects of the Fialův Government. Nearly a third of Čech currently live with growing debts or with only a minimum reserve. People are sinking into poverty because of the Fialův government. Nearly a third of Čech currently live with only a financial reserve that will not cover their average monthly cost of living. Each tenth Czech household then lives completely without reserves because of the Fialův government, while in the recent past many of them managed to save some of the money they earned. This results from the current results of the financial health index of the Czechs. This investigation was conducted by the Sociological Institute of the Academy of Sciences, the portal Europe in data and Česká spořitelna. According to this index, 57 percent of households are experiencing only difficulties with their budget. The most disturbing thing about the polling output is that two thirds of households today who are unable to create any financial reserve declare that they have been able to do so until recently. It is evident that the main causes of this social crisis are the decline in real income and a significant increase in the prices of all basic cost of living and needs. It is the trivial business card and responsibility of the government of Petr Fiala from ODS, which partly caused this price increase, but mainly because it does not want and cannot effectively fight against it, unlike all European countries, or at least help citizens with its overwhelming effects. [[14.40 hours]] The proposals for solutions presented by the SPD are well-known and clear in the long term. Value added tax should be reduced immediately to a zero rate, particularly for energy, basic food and medicines. The Polák did this, and the Čech, including the new President Petr Pavel, go to Poland to buy cheap food. This really is a situation. So instead of Petr Pavel pushing his friends from Fialův's five-wheeler, with whose support he was running for president, he's also going to go shopping in Poland instead of dealing with the upheaval. We've done it! Of course, I understand citizens who go shopping in Poland because the Polish government is patriotic. They reduced VAT to selected basic foods to zero, and therefore it is also cheaper there. Well, the Fialův government doesn't do anything. So it is really ruthless when exponents or politicians supported by the Fialův Government go to Poland to buy cheaply, but these same politicians themselves leave Czech citizens in the lurch. This really is an incredible situation. It's like somewhere in Kocourkov. This is a mockery to the citizens of the world. The proposals, as I said, as well as the SPD proposals, must also be reduced by the government's senselessly high-set electricity and gas price ceilings. At the same time, the government must create conditions for increasing net household income, in particular by reducing direct taxes, or by increasing tax discounts and significantly increasing the basic component of the pension to around minimum wage levels. 40 percent of single parents already live below the poverty line because of the Fialův government. The Fialův Government is not trying to help them effectively, while supporting unnecessary spending. Based on the results of the PAQ Research research, income poverty is the highest threat to single parents' households. There are already 40 percent of them below the poverty line, with about 336,000 children now growing up with one parent. Individuals are therefore forced to limit their own life needs only to the minimum necessary and have no financial reserves. Any unexpected expenses or outages in their income may have fatal consequences for them and their children. It is a sad fact that the Fialův government is not trying to help single parents effectively while supporting unnecessary spending. This is totally unacceptable and it is evidence of the disinterest of the government of Petr Fiala from the ODS of citizens who are forced to raise children under adverse conditions. The main degree of blame for this situation can also be attributed to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka from KDU-ČSL, whose incompetence and disinterest are already paid by millions of Czech citizens. The five-calice government has caused an extreme increase in the basic needs of Czech citizens and cannot help even the most socially threatened of them. Among other things, because of its incompetent policy, the authorities have brought work that has social support and assistance to people in need on the brink of collapse. I'm just gonna take a short turn here, because I'm just gonna remind President KDU-ČSL's behavior and Minister Marian Jurečka... sorry, I wanted to talk about that - too - but now I want to talk about Prime Minister Fial, who still boasts on TV that the government is sending more and more people to social welfare. This is unbelievable. The government boasts that you are sending more and more people to benefits, rather than the government trying to keep as few people on doses as possible, so that Czech citizens can have a good standard of living. You've already got it all mixed up in your heads. Only a fool can say that, these things, but we've all heard it live in the speech of Prime Minister Petr Fiala. That's crazy, the guy's out of his mind. The SPD movement calls for the resignation of an incompetent ministerial minister and chairman of KDU-ČSL Marian Jurečka, while presenting a solution to the situation of families with children at risk of poverty. This is a combination of reducing their tax burden, reducing housing, energy and food by reducing value added tax and increasing child and family social benefits to decent and working citizens. That's a little different from what you're sending... citizens. You send them begging, we say let's support working families with children. We have already brought the relevant bills into the legislative process, but once again, our laws here are blocking Fialův's five-calice government. So it's not just words in our country, it's concrete actions, of course. As for the considerable economic damage when the Fialův Government says that the promised valorisation of pensions is supposed to cause economic damage. That's incredibly insolence! That means, you just want to rob a pensioner of the promised money, and you're gonna say that those pensioners by paying them off, what they're entitled to, it's gonna cause economic damage. That's crazy. But the situation is completely different. Now I'm explaining it to you. The Czech Republic is the only country in the European Union that increased its national debt year-on-year in the third quarter last year. I will repeat this once again - the only country in the European Union. This means that the Fialův Government is not a government of experts and manages public finances the worst within the whole of the European Union. So whoever's causing the economic damage here is Petr Fiala's government. So I'm going to go back to the argument that you yourself - to the truth, to my argument - that you yourselves have caused economic damage, and now you're trying to bend the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the House, and you're saying that because of the damage caused by you, you want to rob the pensioners. Well, that's unbelievable. This is what happens in a private company, so you're all fired from work for a minute by the owner, because a company like that would have failed by now. Just a hint of your actions, that was enough to start a year ago, and you'd be fired by now. Immediately. Because no one would want to pay for it. That would have caused the company's failure, the company's failure if anyone else had managed that kind of business. Well, you guys are out of your league. Because it's from an era, so it's just a flood after you. The Czech Republic, as I said, is the only country in the European Union that increased its national debt year-on-year in the third quarter last year. According to Eurostat statistical authority data, 45,2 percent of GDP. In absolute terms, Czech government debt has increased to CZK 2.98 trillion, with more than half a trillion crowns in the last year alone. These are an incredible housenumer, how you owe the Czech Republic. As long as Ukraine and Ukrajinec come first for you. And you throw Czech pensioners overboard. That you're not ashamed! That you are not ashamed of looking at disabled fellow citizens, people who are ninety years old, eighty years old, who can no longer help themselves. The justification for the state's increasing debt by conflict in Ukraine does not correspond to reality. That's the lie that Prime Minister Petr Fiala keeps recycling here, who's incompetent and doesn't know where he's going, he doesn't know which way he's going, so he's still making excuses for Ukraine. And he boasts that the Czech Republic is the biggest helper here, or the biggest financial aid forwarder, and other aid to Ukraine at all in the financial amount to the proportion to the population, to the proportion to GDP? [[A note from the diaper.]] Well, that's right. Well, let's just... People see it, no. You are simply a Ukrainian government, not a government for Czech citizens. Most importantly, why I am talking about this, the Czech Republic is the only country in the European Union that increased its national debt year-on-year in the third quarter last year. [[14.50 hours]] That's why excuses about Ukraine are a lie. It's your lie! And you better stop lying. Because they don't have that problem in other countries. You just overreacted, and you couldn't handle the situation at all. You've overestimated your abilities. But I've warned from the start that Prime Minister Fiala is incompetent. After all, I sat next to him for four years here in the bench, and I had quite a chance to get to know him. Arrogant, incompetent, selfish, egotistical, overlooked. He doesn't know which one's beating. On the contrary, the Czech government debt has increased rapidly despite the fact that the collection of indirect taxes and public budgets by CZK 137 billion increased significantly last year due to high energy, fuel and food prices. And while gross domestic product is growing in most Member States of the European Union, in the Czech Republic our Ministry of Finance expects its decline by 0.5 percent this year. There was somebody yelling at me from that side of the government MP. [[shows the right]] I wonder who it was so I could say his name on the microphone, who's out here making public calls for robbing old people. And I'm gonna be recycling that name over and over again for the entire term. So who's the brave one? Suddenly it's quiet and silent! So keep it to yourself, hero! Bullshit in a cage!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u223	Mr President, please do not address and shout at other colleagues.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u224	I didn't address anyone...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u225	Take care of your speech, as far as possible confirming the duration of the state of legislative emergency. I think you're too far away from the subject. Go back to the subject and don't yell at the others here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u226	Mr Vice-President, I'm begging you, you should have reminded the first person who yelled at me! Then do it properly, the meeting! He was yelling at me, you didn't warn him, and now you're telling me who's defending himself? Stop it!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u227	I drive it properly. I'm gonna yell at anyone who's gonna yell at you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u228	You didn't! Or you're sitting on your ears. Don't be mad at me because the whole O.R. heard someone yelling at me. I was just defending myself with some dirty screams over there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u229	I didn't hear any dirty screams. Maybe you're hearing things. Go on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u230	I don't have a hearing. And don't be rude to me yet! Yeah? Because you're overreacting. I don't have a hearing...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u231	You're exaggerating. Go back to the subject. Stop yelling at the other MPs!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u232	Then don't let them yell at me. You know the rules of procedure that the MP is supposed to speak to the microphone, so why isn't he talking to the microphone over there? It was a man's voice. There's a five-caliber government out there. Don't teach me here! The Member is to speak on the microphone and you are to conduct the House in accordance with the Rules of Procedure Act.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u233	Yes, I'm driving and I'm begging you to get back to the subject.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u234	And while gross domestic product is growing in most Member States of the European Union, in the Czech Republic our Ministry of Finance expects its decline by 0.5 percent this year. I'm just saying, I like these heroes who scream anonymously, and when I ask their name, they don't talk anymore. This is really unbelievable. So when I look forward here and I don't see who it was specifically, he's the hero here from the government's five-caliber! He's trying to rob a senior, and he's still acting like this. The Fialův Government is simply completely failing to manage public finances and is driving the country into an unpayable debt and dependence on foreign creditors. In the opinion of the SPD, it is necessary to immediately start consolidation of sovereign debt and reducing the public budget deficit. On the way to this is in particular rapid and rapid restrictions on the State's expenditure, including foreign payments and overpriced arms contracts, as well as the taxation of dividends paid by multinationals from abroad. On top of that, Mr President, by your means, I have been here all along justifying your senseless, government senseless reasoning that you are saying that you want to push it through, that you want to rob a pensioner in a legislative emergency, because you are saying that there is considerable economic damage. So I'm here, in case you haven't noticed, I'm arguing numbers and statistics. Now I don't know if I should keep my mouth shut. Would that suit you? To keep quiet, as Mrs Pekarová said, we're just supposed to be here in the corner, moving our feet? No, you don't! No, you don't! So really listen carefully so please my speech - I'm decent, please say listen to it, and here I've been saying statistics all along, I've been saying numbers. You're an economist. So maybe you know them, that's why, like, yeah, but... There.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u235	Yes, don't repeat the numbers for me. Talk to your other colleagues. We're not here to have a dialogue. Please pay attention to the speech, and if you have something to say to me, we can do it after you don't talk on the microphone, so...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u236	I can address you. You cannot have a dialogue under the Rules of Procedure. You have to log on to the microphone. Am I getting this right? I understand well. That's it. So you're in a situation where you can't have a dialogue. You have to be replaced and logged in to the microphone order. So the dialogue will take place in quite a long time, but I can speak to you unilaterally, by your means, so please do not bend it again, the Rules of Procedure! I'm telling you, stop it! So I can talk to you. Yes, I admit that you are in a disadvantageous situation at the moment, because your reaction may actually be in order after people speak with priority rights. So I guess you want to have a dialogue, but now you can't. Now I can talk to you, but you should just run the meeting. There. So it's just an explanation. I still remember it quite well. So the price of fruit... Now look at the people you've caused, like your government. So today, what's the situation, what's the economic damage you're causing with your actions? So it's different from what you've been saying all along as representatives of the government's five-caliber. So, for example, the current situation is that the prices of fruit and vegetables are completely out of control. For example, peppers are sold at prices between 140 and 180 crowns per kilogram. And we simply call on the government of Petr Fiala to reduce the economic damage you are causing and to temporarily reduce VAT to basic food types to zero, because, for example, pickles are worth CZK 35 per piece in some stores, and that is already in a discount event. Peppers are sold at prices between 140 and 180 crowns per kilogram. This may even cost CZK 45 per piece. Ice salad can then be bought for 50 kroner per piece, some shops want for a head of cauliflower and 90 kroner. In the Czech Republic, virtually only imported vegetables are currently sold and according to the Vice-President of the Zelinářské Union of Bohemia and Moravia Petr Hanka, prices will remain high for several months before the first local crop appears. Moreover, this year there is an estimated further decline in Czech vegetable growing areas by 5% as well as last year. Due to the continued concentration of trade, vegetable growers are losing their ability to sell in small shops and villages. In Poland and Germany, prices of almost all items are lower, but the quality of fruit and vegetables is higher. The fundamental share of these astronomical prices in our country is the excessive margins of multinational chains, which are almost monopolistic. And once again, to make it clear to the President, you are talking about economic damage, and I am telling you that the economic damage is elsewhere, and it certainly does not correspond to your proposal for a legislative emergency. So I hope I can really explain here that I'm not gonna have to say what you're gonna tell me and what you're gonna let me say. What you want to hear. And here, in our opinion, the Office for the Protection of Competition should play its role, which should control the abuse of significant market power by these hypermarkets. But the second culprit of these prizes is the current government of Petr Fiala from the ODS, which permanently rejects the SPD's proposals for a temporary reduction of VAT on basic foods, such as in Poland or our proposals promoting food security in our state. We therefore call on the government of Petr Fiala to temporarily reduce VAT to basic food types to zero. That's the SPD's opinion. By the way, this crisis that is here, I'm just trying to set you up with a mirror that you see the impending significant economic damage that you don't want to pay nearly three million pension recipients the money they're legally entitled to, and I'm telling you that the economic damage is elsewhere where we see it. And now it needs to be discussed, this. I just stand by it, because I'm not going to discuss the nonsense that you're putting on here, that you're saying economic damage by paying off that you want to rob a pensioner, so you're not really going to hear it from me here, that I could ever agree with it, and neither is the SPD. Now, what's the situation? The situation in society is much more serious. One to two million Czech citizens do not have a permanent dentist. Health care is a public service, which must be available to all Czech citizens at any time. And once again, there is a great deal of economic damage - real, because 20 percent of the citizens who are registered with a certain dentist fall under dentists whose work and performance are not covered by health insurance companies and therefore have to pay full medical dental care of their own. This is based on data from health insurance companies, published last week on the iDNES server, by the way. And it is again a long-term failure of government and all government representation, which until now have not been able to provide general and financially accessible dental care for all citizens of the Czech Republic throughout the territory of the Republic. Which, in my opinion, is one of the fundamental tasks of public administration and political representation. [[15.00 hours]] And now to bring it back to the damage. At the moment that citizens do not have dental care provided, it also causes impaired health, higher health costs and so on. And another problem is high costs, which were not inevitable. This means great health risks and high costs for the health system. And we in the SPD have been fighting here for years, unfortunately we are in opposition, so that citizens are entitled to dental care available. By the way, it could be done by making it an obligation for all dentists to have a contract with a health insurance company. And even this step cannot be secured by your government. Just a simple thing - an obligation to enter into a contract with a health insurance company. And according to the experts, the condition would be improved immediately. So if by chance someone in the government coalition were to think about some specific SPD solutions, I told you one here and we could discuss it. If you have any other suggestions, but it hasn't yet. In this situation, Vice-President of the Board of Directors Miroslav Kalousek of the Government's TOP 09 seriously proposes that no further dental care, not even the basic one, should be covered by health insurance. But why am I talking about this? I mean, we're talking about seniors who have... they're in difficult social situations. After all, there are many pension recipients today, and not only those who have a problem paying for dental care in the case of, for example, an implant, but also in other cases. And you're actually robbing those pensioners of the promised money, you're actually just making the whole situation worse. So I hope that I can speak at least on these topics, that no one is going to interrupt me, that no one will seem to think that I am not speaking to the point. I think I'm speaking to the point that it's all connected. Well, the SPD is strongly protesting these dangerous government proposals. Health care is a public service that must be available at any time to all Czech citizens paying compulsory health insurance and to all so-called state insured people, such as children, seniors or disabled persons. Prime Minister Petr Fiala should therefore propose that the President of the Republic be removed from his post as Minister of Válek. At the same time, we reject the further privatisation of health, which is the intention of the antisocial government of Petr Fiala. To the economic damage. Come on, seriously, talk about the cart, you talk about the goat. It's just completely unbelievable. When I look at the government's five-calice proposals here, for example, the Minister of Finance and Vice-President of ODS Stanjura now said on behalf of the government that you want to cancel the discount on your wife and husband, which, by the way, affects disabled fellow citizens. You want to increase excise duties, you want to increase property tax. You guys want to cut people's pensions, and you want to push it here with a legislative emergency under a completely pointless justification, that's what I've been trying to tell you the whole time that it's nonsense what you're saying... You don't like it, I get it, but I'm not gonna let you interrupt, really, because that's the point. Where else besides here should we be talking about these things, what are you doing here? So you, on the one hand, want to increase property tax, on the other hand, a number of seniors and pension recipients live especially in the countryside in their real estates, like their houses and the like. So you rob them of the valorization, you want to do it, and at the same time increase the property tax. Well, you're totally throwing pension recipients into a totally unsolvable situation. By the way, your government also wants to limit state contributions to pension insurance. And of course you want to cancel the lowest VAT rate of 10 percent. So you're planning on increasing the water and the sewers, the drugs, the draft beer - what else was there? - Baby supplies, food services and so on. Why am I talking about this? Medication. This is what I mentioned at the beginning of my speech that the consumer basket for pension recipients is different than for ordinary people of working age. There is not so much interest in the new car, the holiday and so on. But a retired consumer basket is food, medicine, housing, but you and this are trying to make people more expensive. So if anybody's causing economic damage here, it's you. And it's certainly not an argument for you to rob retired people and push something in a legislative emergency. No, you don't. Let's move on. Of course, speaking of economic damage, that's what you're saying here, that you want to push the so-called legislative rush to rob those pensioners as quickly as possible, so, of course, on behalf of the SPD, I would like to point out that we will continue to promote the freezing of Czech politicians' salaries. So you guys have raised your five-wheelers' salaries since January 1st, and my proposal to freeze politicians' salaries has already been voted here last year for the entire term. He's already been voted on. You turned him down for me. And I'm stressing again, so the SPD movement... And on the one hand, you want to rob old people, like, on the other hand. So, of course, we, the SPD, have been constantly promoting the freeze of politicians' salaries from the last parliamentary term. And by the way, we also want to solve the lack of medicine for Czech citizens. I hope I'm not taking too far from the subject, because we're talking about pensions, so we're talking about people who, of course, are getting sicker with a higher age. And if you take their money, where are they supposed to take it all? And you're still, in quotes, horny to take their money, hence a legislative emergency, as quickly as possible, so you can rob those pensioners of that money. I think you should do something else, and that the real economic damage that I'm trying to justify here, they're really elsewhere and they're caused by your government. And by the way, the lack of medicine for Czech citizens in pharmacies and hospitals continues. It's been months. We pointed that out at the end of last year. You didn't do anything. It's okay. It's okay. The government doesn't do anything at all. The lack of medication normally goes on all the time, even after months. And here again, we have to deny the false argument that it's everywhere in Europe. No, it's not! Our citizens go shopping for drugs that are scarce in our country, to Poland, Slovakia, Germany. So once again, it's the failure of the Fialův government. Well, I'm just saying that... By the way, about the politicians' salaries. We think that politicians should not make their own decisions about their salaries, and their salary should depend on public sector salaries. So, of course, we're going to support here, and now we're going to have an opposition emergency meeting, and we're going to support it, and we're going to support the freeze of politicians' salaries. As for the legislative emergency, I'd rather keep pointing it out over and over again that I'm talking about the economic damage, the considerable economic damage, because maybe somebody loses their thread and tells me I'm not talking to the point, so I'm probably gonna keep saying that over and over again, regularly after a few minutes, to keep the attention here, here with my colleagues from the government coalition. Let's see where the problems are, where the economic damage is, in fact. Astronomical appreciation for the Fialův government continues, and it is indeed a disgrace to the government that food is cheaper in Poland, Austria and Germany. Growth in inflation has accelerated significantly. Annually, according to current January data, it is 17.5 %. Intermediate inflation rose by 6 percent. So, of course, inflation in the Czech Republic is above the average in Europe. So once again, the Fialův government is one of the worst ever in Europe that it is. I'd say the worst. [[15.10 hours]] But in annual growth in basic cost of living, the situation is much worse than that high inflation. Electricity prices increased by 36,4 per cent, natural gas prices by 87 per cent, heat and hot water prices by 44,7 per cent. Astronomically, food has also increased. The price of flour increased by 44,2 %, the price of pigmeat by 36,8%, the price of semi-fat milk by 39.5%, the price of sugar by 84,7%, and the price of eggs by even 85 percent. Literally catastrophic is the month-on-month increase in electricity prices by 140 percent. That's the economic damage your government caused. Pensioners have not caused any economic damage. It's not true. What you're saying here is that you're supposed to pay the elderly off the promised valorization, by the law of valorization, that it's economic damage. That's disgusting. And what I'm trying to tell you is that the economic damage is completely different, and most importantly caused by your government. The January acceleration of inflation, as I have already mentioned, is unprecedented in Europe. The monthly price increase of 6 per cent is clearly the highest of all European countries. So your government is the worst in Europe. In addition to Slovakia, inflation has not exceeded 1% of the month-on-month growth anywhere else. In many countries, prices have even fallen. All of these facts confirm that enormous inflation growth in the Czech Republic is not due to external causes, but that its main culprit is the government of Petr Fiala from ODS and its inability to counter price growth with regulatory instruments. It is an incredible disgrace to this government that food is already cheaper in all neighbouring countries than in our country, including Poland or Germany and Austria, where there are additional triple incomes. In doing so, we have long since offered a solution to the government. This is mainly about ensuring direct sale of our low-cost electricity without stock exchanges to Czech citizens and companies, and in the short term it is about a significant reduction in so-called price ceilings for electricity and gas and a temporary reduction in value added tax for basic food and medicines to zero. But the Fialův Government ignores these SPD proposals, which is why it should end. By the way, the economic damage you're causing, what's really economic damage, not what you're saying here, is obviously a number. For example, your government has supported the destruction of automobileism ordered from Brussels. So the cars will only be for the richest. Well, that's gonna be great for the old folks, too. Someone gets a medical problem in the village at night, and how is he going? Who's gonna take him? As you know, the European Parliament has finally approved a new zero emission standard, which includes, among other things, a ban on the sale of new cars with internal combustion engines in EU Member States after 2035. This measure, together with the prepared Euro 7 emission standard since 2025, will have devastating effects especially on the automotive industry, which is the backbone of the Czech economy, accounts for about 10 percent of Czech GDP, economic prosperity, employment, which means the demise of hundreds of thousands of follow-up jobs, and the living standard of citizens. In previous votes at the meeting of the Council of Europe at the time of the Czech Presidency, representatives of the current Fialův Government and now government MEPs elected for the government supported this standard for the Czech Republic. The MEPs of the SPD voted against, of course. This measure will also bring about a drastic increase in passenger cars, which will then become a luxury for the narrow richest layer of society and become financially unavailable for most citizens. The standard for banning the sale of cars with internal combustion engines is part of the Green Deal and EU programme, which was approved by then Prime Minister Babiš of the ANO movement, and is supported by Prime Minister Fiala of the ODS and his entire government. Of course, these steps are rejected by the SPD. We're talking about you taking people's pensions. So let's see what's going on with the retirement situation. Nearly 1 million Czech seniors already have a problem with insufficient income and reimbursement of the cost of their basic livelihood, and now you want to rob the pensioners of the promised valorization. On the contrary, the SPD movement promotes an increase in pensions. Moreover, receiving a social benefit as temporary aid from the state is very difficult for our seniors. According to the Invisible project study, up to 889 000 Czech citizens are among the so-called invisible seniors, i.e. those who are unable to cover their livelihoods in the long term, but at the same time fall through a system of state social assistance, mainly due to its complexity, difficult accessibility and ininformation from the authorities. Nearly 50,000 seniors are in execution. And here's the increase in the Fialův government, of course. It is not possible to accept that, after a lifetime of honest work, the seniors live in undignified conditions and debts or undergo humiliating procedures to apply for social benefits. After all, we've seen the stories on TV, for example, on Prima, when your government basically forced an elderly woman who's 80 years old to fill something out at the offices, and she cries, cries, even in the report, because she doesn't know how to do it. No one's gonna help her. This is the situation you put Czech working people in. And the lady was a lifetime accountant when she was still working. That's the result of your government. It's crazy, it's disgusting. According to the SPD, in the case of seniors, first and foremost, the need for the adoption of a minimum wage law equal to the current minimum wage for all who have fulfilled the legal conditions of age and periods of pension insurance, as well as the setting of a fair remuneration of pensions that would not discriminate against low-income seniors. But the members of the Purple Five-calice government have repeatedly blocked our proposals by refusing to discuss them. So let's just see what the situation is now that caused the Fialův government. So you cause the economic damage to all citizens of the Czech Republic and companies, or almost everyone. And no - once again, I have to make a strong stand against the fact that you're pushing old people to steal their money here with the argument that there's a significant economic risk that you would pay the pensioners that money they're entitled to. I really don't. And I hope that this is my justification for the President, too, and that my expression is clear, why, what and how I am talking about. Okay, I'm gonna make this more clear. And now let's see how it works for citizens about their own housing. So you're saying you don't want to valorize and you're saying that if you valorize the elderly, the pension recipients, the money, so that it causes economic damage, which is crazy completely, this is what you're saying. I'm telling you, on the contrary, there's a problem here and people need support. Because because of the Fialův government, own housing for working with average income becomes impossible. And even the government, as I have already mentioned, wants to make the situation worse by increasing the real estate tax. Well, by the way, when I see him here - now I don't see him here, but he's there, here he is around the corner, or here he is in the corner, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs and Chairman of KDU-ČSL Marian Jurečka, he even suggested in an interview for News tax increases to natural persons. So Chairman KDU-ČSL, the people want it, but he said it on behalf of the entire government, so they want to raise taxes to all natural persons. Well, that's pretty cool literally! To all working people in the Czech Republic, folks want to raise money, namely the government of Petr Fiala, so it is unbelievable completely. [[taxes]] You will increase your own salaries, unlimited number of political representatives and 50 billion Ukrainians, but you Čech increase your taxes to all natural persons. I've been reading this very carefully about your interview at The News. I mean, I wouldn't read it myself, because I'm not interested in your conversations, but they warned me to read it because I didn't believe my eyes, so I looked into it. And it really was there. So it needs to be remembered, of course, and it needs to be recycled, this information. And what is the situation regarding housing? The average rate of mortgage loans in the Czech Republic increased to 6.37 percent in February, making it the highest in the last 20 years. This is an analysis of Fincentrum's Hypoindex. For example, the monthly repayment of the mortgage loan of CZK 33.5 million with a term of 25 years has already increased to CZK 23,342, which has increased by approximately CZK 3,850 in the last year alone, which is practically liquidation for thousands of mortgage payers. [[15.20 hours]] And again, why am I talking about this? You want to take people's money, and I say that people have problems with basic life needs, and that it's wrong to take people's money. It is also evident that high interest rates have significantly reduced the availability of mortgage loans for a wide range of citizens and families. Getting a mortgage for working with average income is virtually impossible. It is simply another debacle and the failure of the government of Petr Fiala from ODS, which is no longer the responsibility of the Minister for Regional Development Ivan Bartoš of the Pirates. Well, here's a really big failure of the Pirát, because Pirates are in charge of housing, and the results are zero. The results are zero. On the contrary, the government is going to make the situation even worse by planning an increase in real estate tax, which will further increase the cost of housing ownership and rental for our citizens. Moreover, the increase in this tax is to be the income of the state budget and not of self-government. The SPD movement has a solution to this unsustainable situation. And we have clear recipes for this: ceiling mortgage rates, introducing favourable housing loans for working families, or massive state support for new housing at the level of cities and municipalities, including support for cooperative housing. If these changes don't happen, the citizens of their own homes will just never get to see them, those who don't have it yet. And that, of course, is totally unacceptable to the SPD. Well, you're saying, and that's my act, that you want to push through here in a legislative emergency, that you want to rob a pensioner of the promised money, with the reason that it would cause considerable economic damage. Which is nonsense, so I'm gonna keep explaining why I think that's nonsense, and why I think you're wrong. Because the Fialův government has dirtyly cheated voters and is preparing to raise taxes. So you intend to break more points from your own programming statement and the election promises of government parties. The government wants to withdraw its intention to reduce social security contributions by 2 percentage points for employers. This reduction could lead to a desirable reduction in labour taxation, as well as an increase in employment to standard employment contracts, and thus to an increase in pension insurance collection. The Ministry of Finance, under the leadership of the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura, further stated that during spring specific parameters of the so-called consolidation package in the state budget will be presented in order to reduce the deficit by 70 billion. So, on the one hand, you want to take money from all pension recipients, on the other hand, you are preparing an increase in various taxes in the consolidation package, including insurance contributions from businessmen, the abolition of state aid for building savings, and a significant reduction in support for pension savings. From the SPD's point of view, this is a voter fraud by government parties, and in all these cases it is a fundamental change compared to the government's programming statement, on the basis of which the government has received the confidence of the House. That is, the House - of course, not the members of the SPD. We voted against trusting your government. Just to remind you, and I have already said this here at the beginning of my speech, the structure of the state budget has absolutely no relation to the conflict in Ukraine, to which the government falsely blames these actions. But we've already explained here that it's a lie like a tower. And I suppose the citizens don't believe that either. The systemic changes that would lead to the long-term removal of the budget deficit represent, for example, a reduction in the volume of necessary state bureaucracy or the adoption of a genuine pension reform in the form of support for working families and birth rates, and not simply an increase in taxes and levies for our citizens, employees, businessmen and employers who reject the SPD. Therefore, Petr Fiala's government should simply step forward repeatedly through the House and ask for confidence. Of course, I can still get to the pension reform. I have quite extensive material here, which is about 100 pages, so, of course, with our view of how it should be done, not in the way that you are trying to push through here in a legislative emergency, so, of course, I will also introduce you to that in detail. I hope I can. Let's move on. What's going on here? So, as I've been talking about it, you're saying, I'm gonna say it again, so I don't want anyone to jump in again, that you're saying paycheck, that by robbing the seniors of your valorization, so if you pay them off, that there's a risk of economic damage. And I'm telling you, it's not true, it's nonsense, it's a lie. We're saying you're supposed to pay for it, the valorization. It's money that seniors are entitled to. Now I'm going to put it back in contrast to what the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka of KDU-ČSL says here. He just said in an interview for News, and here it is written that the Czech Republic has to return to raising taxes, and specifically Chairman KDU-ČSL Jurečka spoke about personal income tax and property tax. Well, I, of course, for the SPD, say that the SPD is completely rejecting these crazy ideas. Tax increases are unacceptable to the SPD. On the contrary, in the current social and economic crisis, citizens must be left with as much money as possible from their working income. And I'm back to what I'm talking about. So, in my opinion, in the current situation, in the opinion of the SPD, it cannot, simply cannot be for the future, cannot be taken away from people of their promised money, with which, of course, they were still legitimately counting. Otherwise, thanks to the votes of the SPD, the so-called supergross wage has been abolished in the last parliamentary term and we are happy to do so, we are proud that thanks to the votes of the SPD, all citizens in the Czech Republic have more money in their wallets. It was the right thing to do. And the fact that we canceled the super gross wage has increased our employees' net income and businessmen's. We have also enforced the abolition of the property transfer tax. During this parliamentary term, we have already tabled draft laws to increase income tax reductions for all working citizens and to increase tax advantages on careless children in working families. So consider further tax increases to citizens at a time when, according to a study by the renowned financial company Cyrrus, real wages fall in the Czech Republic next year, the most significant of all V4 countries is completely unacceptable. Moreover, current government parties are violating the pre-election promise that they will not increase taxes. The SPD is refusing to address the appallingly growing government deficit by increasing the tax burden on the population of the Czech Republic, as planned by the government of Petr Fiala from the ODS, while the profits of speculators remain intact. In our opinion, the way of increasing the revenue of the state budget is, for example, the taxation of multinational companies operating in our country, which annually produces about CZK 300 billion a year in the form of non-taxed dividends. On the expenditure page, this is then a significant reduction in the state's expenditure, such as reducing bureaucracy, reducing payments to solar barons, or abolishing the purchase of overpriced armaments abroad. That's the SPD's opinion. Of course, speaking of housing, and we're still talking about the economic damage your government is causing, so let me just remind you that in the length of the construction permit, the Czech Republic is in 157th place in the world. So we're basically one of the worst countries in the world. Well, under the reign of Petr Fiala, it doesn't change at all. Meanwhile, Ivan Bartoš, Chairman of the Pirates and Minister of Regional Development, promised a solution. I remember the way he was talking about it, talking about it all over the place. A year and a quarter gone, and nothing. The deed has escaped. So if we're talking about some kind of economic damage you're causing to citizens, that's why I'm talking about it in my rather extensive speech. True, it's not the most comprehensive speech, but maybe we'll get there. So, by the way, while I'm living here, I'm gonna say it all politically wrong again, but honestly. Take a look at the cost of rents in Prague, for example, and how they have increased since the government allowed the unmanaged arrival of half a million, another half a million Ukrajinec to the Czech Republic, a large part of which are economic migrants. Besides, with the fancy Rolls-Roycy and AMG, I've already told you how it works on a lot of territory, I don't say everywhere. [[15.30 hours]] So, even Czech citizens have been complaining to me for a year that young people and others want to rent an apartment in Prague, and the leases for Ukrajinec have gone up this way. As the number of flats is of course limited and demand has increased, so of course the rents have increased and our citizens are also paying for it, who are no longer able to afford the rentals from the average income they earn, because, of course, demand has increased due to the Ukrajinec and the rentals have increased. But nobody talks about that, and it's true, it's just that. By the way, I've already talked about this here last week, but people are fed up with the Ukrainianization of Czech society. People don't often feel like they do in the Czech Republic anymore, and they write it to me really mass. The SPD's pointing this out, and I'm saying it politically incorrect here, just to be honest, whatever you want to think about it. That's right, and you need to say these things loudly to wake up in that government. But it's futile in your case. So let's see where the real economic damage is. Not where you say it is. Let's see - well, I just laughed - both here in the News List, where some editors are obviously uncritically in love with the Fialův Government, so when they evaluated the Presidency of the Czech Republic, as the Czech Republic chaired the European Union in the second half of last year, they added a word to the successful Presidency. Well, I don't know where they got it. I mean, it was totally unsuccessful. But I'm just adding it to the microphone here, because it surprised me, the word successful, which at all costs needed to be inserted there. That is what I think has really made many citizens laugh. Because we all know that during the second half of last year, the Presidency of the Czech Government, the Fialův Government, in the Council of the European Union, has made the standard of living of Czech citizens worse, which is perhaps what we all see here, and the statistics prove it. So how can anyone write that it was a successful Presidency when the standard of living got worse? That's absolutely incredible, this, this misleading information about how some media is going to the Fialův Government at all costs. Well, let's stop at it for a while, with the economic damage, with what you've done and where the real economic damage is. Czech Presidency - respectively Czech Presidency. Well, Prime Minister Petr Fiala and Fialův's five-calice government chaired it, and of course we had nothing to do with it, and the citizens didn't, either, in the finals. So the Czech Presidency of the Council of the European Union in the submission of Fialův's five-wheeler was just a very expensive series of failures, blaming with one big fiasco at the end. This has clearly damaged the Czech Republic and Czech citizens, even in the long term. We can mention some important circuits. For example, during this period, the European Union, with full support from the Fialův Government and the Czech Presidency, extended the system of trading in emission allowances for heating, including family houses and transport, to households. This decision is winding up for the Czech industry and will lead to a significant increase in energy prices, fuels and other goods and services. This is about tightening up and expanding the functioning of the emission allowance market, which is the central point of the so-called Green Agreement for Europe, Green Deal. The emission allowance speculation system will also apply to heating and road transport. Consumers and companies will also have to pay more frequently for carbon dioxide emissions in the future. Free certificates for companies are to be cancelled by 2034 gradually. The Czech government not only did not support this measure, but even actively promoted it, and it still boasts publicly. Well, it's huge damage! You really have reached into the pockets of Czech citizens and companies as deep as you could, and you still want to rob citizens of pensions. Let us mention, at least briefly, the second circle, which I consider to be very damaging, what you have shown during your Presidency and what has an impact on the economic damage and what you are causing here. The Czech Presidency and the Czech Purple Government agreed to terminate their sale of cars with internal combustion engines. In the countries of the European Union, it will be virtually impossible to buy a new car for petrol or diesel from 2035. This measure has again been actively promoted by the Czech Presidency. It will be winding up not only for citizens, as car prices will rise sharply - and they are already rising because of this Green Deal - and the cost of their operation, but mainly for the automotive industry, which is the backbone of the Czech economy and exports. So you, your government, are causing the economic damage by deliberately increasing citizens' lives. So, at all costs, you're making the lives of the citizens more expensive and now you want to rob them of the statutory value of pensions, and you're still explaining that there's a lot of economic damage to the state when you pay the pension to the pensioners. I have to say it again, because it's a completely insane formulation, which, of course, the SPD absolutely rejects. Let's see what economic damage you're leading this country into. Of course, I wouldn't even have to talk about it here if it wasn't your argument that you wanted to enforce it in a legislative emergency because there is some damage in your opinion. Here we are talking about what the economic damage caused by your government is. The situation is that the Fialův government is gambling with the future of our country and leading it into disaster. Because each Čech already has an average debt of CZK 275 000. The management of the Czech state under the government of the ODS coalition, TOP 09, KDU-ČSL, STAN and Pirates ended last year with a deficit of CZK 360.4 billion. As a result, the total government debt has already increased to CZK 2.895 trillion. For each Čech, the average debt already amounts to CZK 275 000. The government originally planned a budget deficit of CZK 280 billion for last year, but increased it in autumn with an amendment to the law. This is despite the fact that the revenues of the state budget increased by 137 billion CZK last year, mainly due to higher VAT collection, compared to 2021. This year, Petr Fiala's government plans to manage the deficit of CZK 295 billion. Reality, however, can be significantly worse, because according to economic experts' estimates, the government will not collect on an extraordinary tax, the so-called windfall tax, imposed on energy, refineries and banks, by far as planned. This is simply a real problem, because it is another total gamble on the part of the government's five-calice with the future of our economy and the social stability of the Czech Republic, with all the disastrous consequences imaginable. That, of course, is rejected by the SPD. By the way, let's take a look at the way people around Fialův's government five-caliber pensions see. So here's my latest quote. He's from this week. I quote what Petr Janský says about the Fialův Government's advisor. It was normally in mainstream media. I quote him as he sees pensions: "Immigration, i.e. more people from abroad, allows us to avoid a difficult choice when we either have to raise taxes or reduce pensions. " Well, we're home. This is counsellor of the Fialův Government, Petr Janský. So promoting migration, as many Ukrajinec as possible, are, of course, at the expense of Czech citizens, raising taxes, reducing pensions. That's exactly what you're planning and what we're witnessing here today. And I ask: What about encouraging Czech working families not to be afraid to have at least two or three children? That's not what the Fialův government wants. I am not even talking about this - but this might remind me, Mr President, that I am not talking about economic damage, so perhaps only in a few sentences, but it is also about the economy, about money, which is why I will mention at least briefly - that the Fialův Government wants to introduce censorship with a new totalitarian law, to prosecute uncomfortable views and information for the government and finance pro-government propaganda from the state budget. [[15.40 hours]] So now you know why I'm going to mention it here. Under the leadership of Prime Minister Petr Fiala from ODS and Interior Minister Vít Rakušan from STAN, the Office of the Government and the Ministry of the Interior drew up a plan for the so-called fight against misinformation. This plan includes, among other things, the possibility of prosecuting spreaders to the government of uncomfortable political opinions and information, cutting off some opinion opposition websites from advertising and financial support in the order of up to CZK 150 million per year from the state budget, i.e. from the money of all taxpayers, including voters of opposition parties and movements, pro-government media and political non-profit organizations. In the first half of this year, there should be a law in the framework of this project enabling the government to block selected websites and prosecute criminally so-called dissemination of disinformation without clearly defining what misinformation is and what disinformation is not. In other words, the current government intends to build a network of its own propaganda media for all citizens' money and criminally prosecute opposition political views, including the imprisonment of their carriers. That would, of course, be the end of freedom and democracy. But I'll stop by the economy. So CZK 150 million a year from the state budget to the pro-government media and political non-profit organizations? You have the money for that, but you have the pension recipients, all the pension recipients, you want to rob the promised pension valorization, and you're pushing it here in a legislative emergency, and you're calling it economic damage. Well, I'm telling you again, that's definitely not the case, and the SPD really has a different opinion. And to add, from the government of Petr Fiala, about this law on censorship, how you want to put 150 million crowns there at the expense of our pensioners, this is an unprecedented attack on freedom of speech, expression and thought, which has not been the case since 1989. It is without exaggeration the introduction of totalitarian practices contrary to the democratic character of our state, contrary to the Czech Constitution, to the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, which is part of it and in which, inter alia, Article 17 states that censorship is inadmissible. The SPD movement protests loudly against this upcoming government totalitarianism and will defend freedom and democracy against the current government with all its might and with all its legal democratic means. Now let's take a closer look. Now I've taken it a little bit more generally at the beginning of my performance, and now, of course, we're going to go into the more detailed phase. So here we have the government bill, which the government of Petr Fiala wants, the five-calice ODS, TOP 09, STAN, Pirates and KDU-ČSL, now wants, so we are at this point specifically confirming the duration of the state of legislative emergency, which we do not want to confirm logically, I have proposed, on behalf of the SPD, the abolition of the legislative emergency, so my proposal will be voted on after the end of the debate. So you're saying that there's a threat of economic damage here by just... just paying off the promised valorization. We say it's not like it needs to be paid off. And, of course, we are here because, of course, we cannot look at this at all, and we will fight for almost 3 million pension recipients in the Czech Republic until our last breath, so the SPD has prepared a number of amendments, because we do not think that this will cause economic damage. On the contrary, there is a need to pay off. We need to pay off the promised pensions. A total of 102 amendments were tabled by the SPD, so, of course, our Members will justify them in detail and, of course, we will also read them in detail. But that's the next phase. What's going on? Because we just want - the situation here is that the government's proposal for an amendment to the Pension Insurance Act, that's what you've just put forward here, so that the ex post, retrospectively, with retroactive effect, changes the conditions of June's extraordinary valorisation of all types of pensions, is, in addition to the obvious conflict with constitutional principles grossly and social. You financially damage all pension recipients with monthly pensions above CZK 8,000 and then damage the average pension recipient, respectively, by CZK 1,010 a month on average. This is particularly unbearable at the time of the astronomical expensiveness of all of them for pensioners of key cost of living, socially-economically liquidation measures. Under the law in force and effective, an extraordinary June valuation was to take place in the form of an increase of 11.5 % in the merit component of pensions. One way to achieve this condition is, in addition to the failure to approve a government amendment, its adjustment, or the adjustment of one of its parameters, namely the amount of fixed financial amount by which pensions will be increased as of June, remaining the same for all its beneficiaries, which will preserve the element of merit, as the next component of the increase in pensions will be the percentage of the pension contribution, which increases nominally with its growth. At the same time, it will help low-income pensioners much more significantly. That is why we proposed for the SPD, it is a total of 102 amendments to increase the fixed amount by which pensions are to be valued, namely by the CZK 1,400, 1,500. We have it after the crowns to give you the opportunity to reconsider the matter, you, the government Members, because perhaps one of you will be questioning your conscience and thinking that he will not vote in favour of this antisocial proposal of your government. Now let's finally get to the backbone of my speech. We finally got to it. And now the point is, because you're saying that you don't want to do the addition of pensions, you're saying that adding people to the promised valorization is an economic loss from your point of view. I'm saying it's not like that. So I think that we should really tell ourselves how we should actually look at these pensions and that we really pay money to those who can't help themselves or work our own off, that it's just not an economic shame that the state is not in danger of economic damage. On the contrary, we should give those pensions to people. The SPD is firmly behind this and, on the contrary, we say: increase pensions. Of course, this raises a number of questions, and I think it is necessary to say some economic rules about the pension system in this regard, in order to really explain to you that payment of dignified pensions is not economic damage and that your proposal for a legislative emergency really is nonsense. It's nonsense. Previously, people took care of the family's old age. No one thought they should turn to the state with their worries. When someone specifically wanted to secure themselves for old age, he used help in charity or church or private insurance. At the end of the 19th century, social insurance has been separated from private insurance, which has gained so much importance in developed countries during the 20th century that they account for a third of public finances. Just to remember the source, it's the book Pension Reform, author is Marek Loužek, editor of Karolinum. So I'm just quoting some passages from it because I think it's a very informative publication. Whether we like this situation or not, it is clear that it cannot be changed overnight. On the one hand, there is a risky relativistic approach, according to which the pension system is sufficient only for cosmetic changes. I just wanted to say that, of course, there's a lot of groundwork for this pension reform and how to do it. So the opinions in this book don't fully copy the SPD's views. But it is one of many and many materials that is good to read so that government, government officials can take a view of it, because it is evident that you are incompetent. And neither did Babišův's government introduce pension reform, nor did the current government introduce any reform. [[15.50 hours]] So we need to explain to you how I've already said that pension payments have nothing to do with economic damage. On the other hand, it embarrasses radical proposals to privatise the pension system in the form of compulsory savings. And the aim of this chapter, from which I will quote you, is to offer an alternative model of reform of the pension system, which is both more meaningful and more politically transparent. The structure of the chapter is simple. The first part brings the introduction to the problem, the second part discusses the types of pension systems, the third part analyzes the choice between the ongoing and the fund system including the impact of both systems on savings, the fourth part draws attention to the costs of the transition between the ongoing and the fund system, the sixth part introduces the outline of the pension reform model for the Czech Republic. The ongoing pension financing system has been in crisis in recent years. Critics complain that the ongoing pension funding system is too rigid, that as a benefit to the welfare state it contributes to high unemployment, that pension insurance weakens incentives to work and reduces the growth potential of the economy. The ongoing system is an institution that makes the division of the pie more equal, but limits the size of the pie. The economists did not always take such a negative view. In the 1950's, most people who had experienced two world wars and a major economic crisis believed that an ongoing pension financing system was useful and correct. In a situation where wage and population growth exceeded the yield on the capital market, the decision to introduce an ongoing pension financing system after World War II seemed not bad, even if the current population trend could be predicted. The solution to the pension system crisis in adverse demographic trends is that governments are looking for longer savings, especially in tightening pension rights, sometimes in reducing the level of benefits. However, the implementation of these measures is politically and socially sensitive. Nevertheless, cosmetic modifications to the existing system in a number of countries seem not enough. While growth in pension spending slows them down, it may not mean a long-term solution. The debate on pension reform is a classic example of how economic policy theory works. [[Politically?]] Political parties are ahead of the proposals for a change to the existing system, which is considered unsatisfactory by some. However, when it comes to breaking bread and the details should be negotiated, it is usually found that the differences between the political parties are too great to make a meaningful consensus. Browning has shown that pension payments are not socially effective in the government's managed pension model, but are the result of an electoral process where the older generation outvotes the young. If there was a referendum on the introduction of compulsory pension insurance, the first generation would probably choose to establish an ongoing system, even without fulfilling Aaronův's so-called condition. Unfortunately, there are indications suggesting that the political preferences of the population regarding the functioning of the pension system will not change much in the near future. On the one hand, the population development puts an ongoing system on the brink of the abyss, so that alternatives are sought, ways of ensuring old age. On the other hand, the higher proportion of older people in the population shifts the age of a middle-ranking voter towards the interest of voters in the post-productive age, preventing radical reform of the pension system. However, the result of these pressures within the political system is rather minor cosmetic changes to the existing system. The form of pension reform naturally reflects different political views, including the state's role in interfering with citizens' lives. Nevertheless, it is not possible to neglect the purely economic rules governing the functioning of pension systems. The pension system is not moving in the vacuum, but it is based on a wide range of broader social factors, such as national traditions, historical development, experience and attitudes of living generations, economic level and international context, including ratified international conventions and membership of the Czech Republic in the EU. Its reform should therefore also take into account the social context and have political support. The aim of the first chapter I will read to you is to offer a model of reform of a pension system that rejects two extremes: on the one hand, the idea that nothing needs to be done, and on the other hand, too much. Although both Bismarckův's system advocates and supporters of radical reform politically on the opposite side have one thing in common: they intend to solve the pension problem by means of debt. The result of both of these approaches is a huge transitory debt. If we come out of the assumption that government debt will once be redeemed by higher taxes, it encourages us to look for a model of reform of the pension system that minimizes government deficits associated with it. Instead of radical reform, it is more appropriate to adjust the parameters of the ongoing system, such as increasing retirement age and reducing the ratio of the average pension - wages. That is why I also pointed out in the introduction that this is one of the opinions, because, for example, the SPD movement is fundamentally opposed to increasing the retirement age of over 65 years. We are fundamentally against it. And of course, even in the introduction I'm reading here, I'm not the author of this book, so there are already a number of, of course, polemic moments that we disagree with behind the SPD. But I'm saying again, there's a lot of materials, so I chose one of them, which could also wake up some discussion. As regards the type of pension schemes, pension schemes may be broken down according to different criteria: compulsory or voluntary membership, public or private management, insurance or redistribution, a fund or an ongoing system, defined benefits or defined contributions. Assistance in old age can be provided through employers' funds, private pension funds, personal savings or life insurance. People can also invest in their own children or real estate. It is necessary to distinguish systems continuously financed, defined and systems continuously financed and defined by contribution and systems funded by a fund and/or fund systems defined by a batch. The pension system can also be created by combining these approaches. Therefore, it is not enough to talk only about an ongoing pension and financing system for pensions or fund systems or only about public or private systems. So let's see what these different pension systems have, what their advantages and disadvantages are. The advantage of public ongoing pension systems is that they are more resistant to inflation, are not subject to fluctuations in the capital market and enable the pension system to balance according to parameters. Their disadvantage is often high redistribution, mandatory contributions that have the character of taxes, and greater sensitivity to demographic developments. The advantage of fund private pension systems is greater individualisation, where benefits correspond to paid funds, easier adaptation to demographic trends and low tax burden. Among the disadvantages of the private pension pillar are that private pension funds cannot offer insurance against depression, capital market risks or unexpected inflation. There are two basic models within Western European pension systems: Bismarckův and Beveridgeův. [[Spoken as written]] The Bismarck tradition is derived from the social insurance scheme introduced by German Chancellor Bismarck in 1889 when the old-age and disability pension system was established followed by health insurance and accident insurance. The Bismarck model seeks to maintain the standard of living of insured people. [[16.00 hours]] Beveridgeův's concept dates back to 1942 when... [[Reads beveridge's again]] "Beverij" I guess, because I don't know... [[From the Chairman's Table Help: Beverij]] Yeah, Beveridž. Now I don't know what nationality this man is. So, Beveridž, thank you for the clue. When William Beveridge - according to William, I had already estimated it to be an Anglophone country - so when Beveridge published his Social Security Report and related services, where he named his goal - freedom from lack. The beveridge system is also based on redistribution, which provides taxes and transfers. This system protects all citizens against poverty. The comparison of both systems shows the following table - which I can't show you, unfortunately, because I don't have a monitor here. Basically in this table is a comparison between the bismarck model and the beveridge model, where the aim of the bismarck model is to maintain the system, the aim of the beveridge model is to prevent poverty. For the bismarck model there are income-related benefits, for the beveridge system they are across the board, for the bismarck model there is funding for contributions, for the beveridge tax model. And in the Bismarck model, the administration of the tripartite and the beveridge model is public. So while the bismarck system is trying at least a little bit to calculate benefits to take account of the amount of social security contributions paid, the beveridge system ensures equal universal benefits. Both systems are controlled publicly. However, while representatives of trade unions and employers are included in the decision-making system in the Bismarck system, that is what I was talking about, that is the tripartite, so the beveridge system is less ambitious, but consistently state. Especially in Latin America and East Asia, there are old-age hedge funds, whether private or public. While in Chile pensions are purely private, in Malaysia, savings on old age are supervised by a public institution. In Central Europe, Hungary, Slovakia and Poland, part of the pension system has also been privatised and is provided by private funds. It is not easy to implement pension reform. Firstly, there are interest groups against reform. The most powerful element opposed to structural reform are current pensioners who demand that they remain full of pensions. Well, that's what the SPD wants, of course. We want full pensions and legal valorisation. Unlike the Fialův government. Secondly, it is difficult to make a change in public opinion. A part of such a campaign is according to the author of the book to eradicate the belief that the insurance program can survive forever and is funded by contributions which brings everyday annuity. Well, of course, it is today when we look at public opinion, where the Fialův government is basically only trusting 20 percent, or a little over 20 percent, as the last survey was, and of course the government has already basically lost its legitimacy to any of those steps where you want to take people's pensions and the like. Now let's see what pension reforms are like in the world. Pension reforms in Western European countries. The prevailing feature of pension reforms in Western European countries is their moderation. These are all parametric changes within ongoing pension systems, extension of retirement age, reduction of benefit levels and strengthening the relationship between contributions and benefits. Governments tend to put pressure on demographic developments to carefully reduce pensions against average wages. German pension insurance is an ongoing compulsory system for employees as well as for most self-employed workers. Pension insurance is divided between employees and employers. France also has an ongoing system of financing pensions with defined benefits. The continuous pension amounts to 70 per cent of the average wage in the 25 best earning years of an individual. The usual retirement age is 60 years for men and women. Well, right now in France, they're demonstrating against the increase in retirement to 64 years, and you want to increase from 65 to 68, which would be the highest retirement age in Europe, and of course the SPD doesn't agree with that. And when someone here compares the gross wage, Minister Stanjura here compared the pension and the gross wage, so look at France - the average income is 70 percent of the average wage. I don't know what he's talking about. The exception to the rule that pension reforms in Western Europe are heading towards changes within the interim systems without the introduction of compulsory pension funds is Sweden. The pre-reform pension scheme was based on a general pillar and a second pillar based on contributions made. This second pillar is partly provided by private pension funds. Pension reforms in Latin American countries, let's take a closer look at them. The origin of pension schemes in Latin America dates back to the early twentieth century. A few decades after the launch of the Bismarckův model in Germany, continuous systems became very popular even in Latin America. The relationship between contributions and benefits was relatively weak and the conditions for granting pensions were quite generous. It was easy to obtain both early retirement and disability pensions. Chile was the first country in Latin America to privatise its pension system. The Pinochetův regime replaced the existing ongoing system of private pension funds, which was mandatory for employees newly entering the labour market. For others he paid opt-out. Every citizen's contributions are collected in an individual account. The system is mandatory, capital and privately managed. The privileged pension systems of the military and police remained unaffected by the reform and since 2008 a solidarity pension has been introduced as a new pillar. In recent years, many Latin American countries have introduced different variants similar to the Chilean model. In Bolivia, El Salvador and Mexico, the original public system was closed down and replaced by a private pension fund system. In Bolivia, private pension funds were nationalized, which had previously replaced public pensions. There are two parallel systems in Peru and Colombia. In Uruguay, a newly created component of private pension funds is based on a mandatory supplement to a reformed public system. In Argentina, however, the fund system was nationalized. [[16.10 hours]] Now let's look at pension reforms in Central and Eastern Europe. Although the countries of Central and Eastern Europe recorded rapid changes in the political and economic system after 1989, social security has long remained unchanged. With the exception of the introduction of the unemployment allowance, which was a response to rising unemployment, social security schemes survived for a long time in principle. However, it would be wrong to believe that there was a consensus on maintaining the status quo in social policy. Only in the last ten years have pension systems in Central and Eastern Europe undergone fundamental changes. Thanks to the three-pillar models brokered by the World Bank, various countries have made a shift in funding, which resembles Latin American models. The privatization of social insurance and the examination of their economic impact became, in quotation marks, industry. Recent reform dynamics in some countries in Central and Eastern Europe have shown that partial or complete privatisation of old age insurance is possible. Hungary has used a three-pillar system, although it has chosen a rather gradualist method of reform in order to minimise deficits below 1% of GDP per year. Poland has also chosen a three-pillar system, although the government does not guarantee any pension from the second pillar. While Poland, Hungary and Slovakia signed up for partial privatisation, following Latin American models, Czech efforts remained within the borders of bismarckov-Beveridge pension traditions. The reason apparently is that Hungary and Poland both burdened greater external debts compared to the Czech Republic. However, there have been major changes in pension reform in the Czech Republic since 2012. Most of the pension reforms were implemented in countries where the old system was facing collapse or has already collapsed. It is in the interest of the Czech Republic to avoid this danger and to take steps to reverse the current trends. To be comforted by the fact that in the share of pension expenditure on GDP of around 10 percent we are still even better off than the Maďar, where 15 percent is, is not right. So let's take a look at this development. In the 1990s, the consensus, which Müller calls a new pension orthodoxy, dominated the transition from ongoing systems to private pension funds. Although it was not part of the Washington consensus, it became part of liberal economic policy in the 1990s. The adherents of this approach promise from change to increase savings rates and greater efficiency on both the financial and labour markets, which will lead to an increase in long-term growth. The World Bank rightly argues that existing schemes for public pensions based on the ongoing system are out of control. Its weaknesses include monopolism, a weak relationship between contribution and pension, labour market distortion and the risk of political manipulation. That is why the World Bank recommends - and this is already a debatable question - the introduction of three pillars of pension security. Well, of course, I would add here for the SPD that we are rejecting and voting for the abolition of Kalouskův's pillar, when exactly the government of the ODS, the TOP 09, back then with Public Affairs... or whatever it was called, the People's name was, some sort of purposeful party was created - so you tried here - that was the ODS and the TOP 09, that is to be stressed - bringing citizens' money into a private fund. And when I asked the Minister here, that is, Mr Kalousek at the time, because I was not even in the politics of how the ODS and TOP 09 government, how they guarantee money to citizens in that private fund in case it went bankrupt, whether it was somehow guaranteed that the money would come back. And we all remember the answer, and I asked about it on TV that it wasn't guaranteed by anything. That means a really incredible public money tunnel for citizens - an incredible citizens' money tunnel - and God knows what it's all been so far to bring the citizens' money into private funds that aren't in any way... The money wasn't protected against, for example, the disposal of the fund or the collapse of the fund or anything like that. So, of course, we in the SPD are making it clear that there is no unnecessary discussion here, I think, from the media, which, for example... I'm just stressing that I'm reading one of the books here that doesn't fully copy the SPD's views, but it's one of the many materials where experts are engaged in various models of pension systems, so of course we insist that the basic dignified pension be guaranteed by the state. That's the SPD's opinion. Publicly managed redistribution first pillar intended to alleviate the poverty of pensioners means the payment of a basic pension. The second pillar consists of mandatory private schemes, personal or employee arrangements, based on an individually defined contribution plan with a close relationship between individual contributions and pennies. The third pillar includes voluntary savings. The World Bank notes that in Eastern Europe the Chilean type of privatisation would bring special psychological and political advantages. These elections would signal the government's intention to shift responsibility for its own well-being to individuals and create preconditions for macroeconomic stability, reform of the financial sector and privatization of entrepreneurship. Concept of pension reform But the World Bank has not only its supporters but also its opponents. These include not only the International Labour Organisation but also conservative opponents. With the first and third pillars, i.e. the minimum state pension and voluntary savings, no one would likely be allowed to compromise. The main controversy thus concerns the compulsory second pillar, which means compulsory contributions to private pension funds. And that's exactly it, yes, mandatory savings into those private funds, and what the TOP 09s and ODS did here during the 2010-2013 parliamentary term was really crazy. So good thing we canceled after. The main argument of opponents is that it is not certain that private pension schemes guarantee higher yields than continuous systems. The transition to fund financing does not mean defending against demographic risks. Recent crises in capital markets in South Asia, Russia and Mexico show that investment in pension funds can be very risky. The administrative costs of pension funds are high, partly due to high marketing costs. Well, of course, if I sum up here, specifically the advantages and disadvantages of the ongoing pension funding system and private fund systems, when we compare it, the macro-economic risks in the ongoing systems are in case of... output shocks, there's a comparison. Continuous systems - lower incomes, but the effects on individuals can be mitigated. Private fund systems - possible effects on funding that cannot be mitigated. With regard to unemployment, for the ongoing system - lower incomes, but the effects on individuals can be mitigated. For private fund systems - no effect on funding, but disabled individuals receive lower future returns. With regard to low wage growth, for the ongoing system - lower incomes, but the effects on individuals can be mitigated. For the private fund system - no effect on funding and the normal level of contribution. [[16.20 hours]] With regard to the financial crisis, depression, hyperinflation, so in the case of ongoing systems possible lower incomes, but the effects on individuals can be mitigated. In the case of private fund systems, there is so limited or even cancelled accumulated stocks. I'm still at the macroeconomic risks. As far as the ongoing systems are concerned, as far as the low yield rate is concerned, no direct effects on funding and revenues. As far as the private fund system is concerned, in terms of the low yield rate, no effects on financing but lower revenues. There. And as far as demographic risks are concerned, when we compare the ongoing system and the private fund system, as far as the high dependency ratio is concerned, the ongoing system of worsening finances. For the private fund system, no direct effect on financing and income. As far as the smaller workforce is concerned, and I am with the demographic risks, so with the ongoing systems of higher wages and future returns. For private fund systems, lower income and future income. As far as political risks are concerned, the change in contracts is relatively easy in the case of an ongoing system, difficult for private fund systems. Oh, yeah. As far as the sensitivity to the fiscal situation is concerned, it is high for ongoing systems and, of course, low for private fund systems. So here we have said, in direct comparison, the advantages and disadvantages of essentially ongoing pension systems and in comparison with private fund systems. The reform to fund financing leads to a double burden on transitional generations that had to contribute to their own pension plans, while paying their normal pension obligations. In Chile, the government issued so-called bonds with recognition to cover pension liabilities existing before the fund system. Implicit liabilities were thus transformed into explicit liabilities. During the first ten years of the new system in Chile, a deficit of 4 percent of GDP was created. According to forecasts, the deficit will disappear in 2020, after 40 years of pension reform in Chile. This means that in the short and medium term, the Chilean system change will not result either in limited public spending or in increased national savings. Therefore, no additional growth effect can be attributed to the Fund scheme. The idea that people should diversify their pension portfolios so that they do not rely only on the national pillar is correct. However, it cannot be agreed that savings in pension funds should be compulsory. And we see, so here's the consensus, because just what the ODS government and TOP 09 wanted ten years ago was mandatory. Essentially compulsory payment to a private fund without any guarantee, which, of course, is a problem, and we contradicted that. Compulsory contributions to private pension funds are philosophically inconsistent. So let's take a look and have a little discussion and think about the choice between the ongoing and the fund system. The choice between the ongoing and the fund system is not an easy matter. In this section, I will analyze with you the standard Aaronův rule for the introduction of either an ongoing or a fund system. We will discuss here, ladies and gentlemen, the functioning of the ongoing pension system and analyse the strengths and weaknesses of the ongoing and the fund system. We will also mention the discussed impact of both pension systems on savings. So the starting point for the debate on the choice of pension system is so-called Aaronův rule, which means m + g > r, where on the right hand side of the equation r is as the rate of return of private pension funds on the capital market and on the left hand side the rate of yield in the continuous system, which is given by population growth m and the rate of growth of average wages g. If the income rate of private pension funds is higher than population growth and average wage growth rates, then the fund system should be more favourable. On the contrary, if population growth, the so-called Samuelsonův biological yield rate, and the average wage from which pension insurance is paid, is growing faster than the income of private funds, the ongoing system of financing pensions is more favourable. The real yield of private pension funds in the world is different. The example of Chile, where annual revenues exceeded 12 %, is rather an exception. Estimates based on macroeconomic data and the known distribution of Swiss pension fund portfolios' assets show that the average annual yield rate was 1,5 % in the 1970s and 1980s. The delay in the real yield rate for real wage growth was thus 1.7 %. Also, the pension saving system in Singapore generated relatively low returns between 1960 and 1990, around 2% a year. Given the growth in real wages exceeding 4 percent, it appears that the real interest rate did not guarantee too high a rate of return on investment in pension funds. In Malaysia, annual revenues amounted to 1 %. The yield of a portfolio of US shares and bonds, which generated 5.5 per annum between 1926 and 1992, is therefore to be taken with a reserve. If funds are mandatory, the government must strongly regulate the pension funds sector in order to guarantee minimum pensions from these funds. High regulation and investment in safe instruments, most often in government bonds, do not lead to very high returns. One of the disadvantages of the fund system is the limited ability to transfer savings without penalising before reaching retirement age to another form of savings. Even if Aaronův's condition is met, it still does not give a complete and definitive answer to the question of the effectiveness of pension financing methods, or more precisely whether and under what circumstances the intergenerational pareto efficient allocation of consumption is achieved rather by that or that method. Aaron assumed exogenous wages and interest rates, so the result is rather for a small open economy. More serious is that Aaronův's rule does not take into account mixed systems, i.e. systems composed partly of an ongoing system and partly of funds, or a changing rate of pension contributions. Aaron's analysis focused on examining the state of affairs, but did not take into account the transaction costs of the entire transition and distribution conflicts between generations. Pension systems are no longer single-pillars, because pension benefits are derived from different sources. How does Breyer correctly argue (?) in the 1992 book, when moving from an ongoing system to a private-saving fund system, it is generally impossible to compensate the first generation of pensions for the loss that will result from leaving the system without making other generations worse. The choice between different pension funding schemes cannot be made only on the basis of an efficient criterion, but also the distribution between generations should be taken into account. The analytical finding that, in adverse demographic developments, there is no way of painless pension reform in which all groups would improve is extremely serious. For example, Kovalčík and In the 2000 text, he promised that the young and middle generation could improve in appropriate reform, while the elders would not be offended. That's misleading. The conflict between generations cannot be eliminated by any genius pension reform. [[16.30 hours]] Now let's take a look at the functioning of the continuous system. The balance of the continuous system is given by the equation W = p.D, where S is the contribution rate, W is the average wage, N is the number of workers, p is the average pension and D is the number of pensioners. By combining these parameters, the continuous system can be compensated. In adverse demographic developments, the average pension, pay, raise the pension rate, or reduce the number of pensioners, for example, by increasing the retirement age can be reduced. The ongoing system shall be based on solidarity or equivalence. In the case of a batch defined system, it is based on solidarity. Where the system is defined by contribution, it shall be based on equivalence. Pension entitlement is thus given by participation in pension insurance, the amount of earnings and the number of years worked, with the premium being paid from earnings as a profit ceiling. Sometimes the pension system is a combination of these approaches. Although continuous systems are designed to ensure social solidarity from richer to poorer, redistribution between generations from rich to poor is not so strong, if any, as there is a positive correlation between the amount of lifelong earnings and the length of life of an individual. Its effect can even be a degressive place progressive. Both ongoing and fund systems are sensitive to different types of risks. The demographic system is more sensitive to ongoing systems, because sooner or later they are adjusted to reduce pension deficits. The risk of the capital market is more subject to the fund system. Different pension funds achieve different returns. Some may even fail and the government will likely play the role of lender of the last instance. It is not entirely possible to identify with the view that Bezděk from 2003 is subject to more political risk than the trust systems. The government or parliament can quickly change the conditions for pension insurance or savings. With the transition to the fund system, it is not excluded that the future left-wing government, which will come to power, will question the privatisation of the pension system and impose in high school (?) a generation's new tax. Rutarová - The nightingale argues that the increasing volume of savings so accumulated and the limited possibility of owners with them will motivate the state not to one day decide to tax these resources, as is the case with low demand elasticity - indirect tax on alcohol, petrol, tobacco products. The possibility of avoiding such a tax is likely to be very limited. The tendency to an ongoing or fund system is related to historical experience. In the United States, where they know enforceable law and functioning capital markets, there may be a more natural attachment to fund finance. In Central Europe, where we remember war, monetary reforms or the changing of political regimes, more confidence in even an imperfect ongoing system may not be so understandable. It can be agreed with Vittas that there is no miraculous pension system, whether a fund or an ongoing, private, or public, contribution or dose defined. None can avoid the problem of stowaways, moral gambling, unfavourable selection, transaction costs. These problems affect all types of contracts. They are particularly serious in the case of pension contracts covering 60 years or more. Now let's look at the impact of both systems on savings. Population ageing has macroeconomic consequences. The level of savings, capital stocks and growth is reduced and the labour market is negatively affected. These negative consequences will occur both in the ongoing system and in the fund system. It can be agreed with Holman of 2002, that the economic burden resulting from demographic ageing is completely independent of the form of a pension system. The impact of social insurance on savings is questionable. In Feldstein, Feldstein argued that social security was weakening private savings and had a negative impact on economic growth. On the other hand, the fund system, according to him, contributes to an increase in saving rates and accelerates economic growth. Felstein's fund savings or Feldstein? - it was supposed to be mandatory because some people aren't responsible enough, they won't be saving for retirement, and they'll fall into social media. Barro, on the other hand, expressed his hypothesis in 1978 that in the dynastic model of the family with intergenerational transfers, the effect of social insurance on savings would be neutral. Optimizing actors will balance government policy. Government debt will be redeemed with higher taxes in the future. The mandatory state pension system does not create any new social wealth, it merely crowds out voluntary private savings. The truth, according to the Barro, is that the privatisation of the state pension system, if financed by an increase in government debt, does not in itself affect national savings. The increase in private savings in compulsory pension funds is fully pushed out by the decline in public savings. Only if the reform is financed at least in part by government financial consolidation could national savings increase. If the reform of the pension system increases national savings, this is not due to a change in the method of financing, an ongoing system versus a fund system, but to budgetary consolidation. Although funds replace the previous mandatory ongoing system, people perceive compulsory pension funds as a substitute for voluntary savings. The impact of the fund system on savings may not be positive. The biggest concern of a person investing in a pension fund, whether voluntarily or on a compulsory basis, is that he can't deal with his savings until retirement. Mandatory savings have certain shortcomings. For example, it may force some people to become more indebted or to divert funds from others... necessary expenses, such as raising children or investing funds into their own property or business. Now let's look at the next chapter at the cost of the transition. [[16.40 hours]] In a number of developed countries, state pension expenditures range between 10 and 15 percent of GDP. Since transition costs are non-zero, Aaronův's rule of choice between the interim and the fund system cannot be clearly applied. The 1998 Bulíř opinion that the fund system will be paid within one generation and, moreover, the development of the financial capital market will bring positive externality stimulating savings is too optimistic. Although the benefit of the fund system should be the stimulation of savings, the reality may be less pink. Most advocates of the fund system stress that this system has significantly increased savings in Chile, for example. However, this is not clear at all, because the rise in private savings in pension funds is balanced by the decline in other voluntary private savings. The beneficiaries of the transition to the fund system do not appreciate the costs of the transition that arise in connection with radical pension reform. Among the generations of young people who would enter the new system, and the generations of older ones who would remain in the ongoing system, there is a so-called lost generation that would apply twice: on their own pensions and on the pensions of their parents. The burden of this lost generation is proposed by the authors to address the issue of so-called debt recognition, which would finance the entire reform. But the problem is who and when would pay off this debt. According to Ricardo-Barroův's theorem of equivalence, government debt will sooner or later be redeemed with higher taxes. The belief that a lost generation could increase its well - being during its life - style is therefore illusionary. We assume that the cost of the transition will be financed by issuing debt recognition in the amount of D, which will increase the existing debt. The funds the government borrows to finance the transition will be invested and turned into savings in private pension funds. At the time of the pension reform, therefore, the newly accumulated capital is exactly equal to the newly created debt D. D is equal to S. Just as I said, government debts would sooner or later be redeemed by higher taxes. At least we see what awaits us here with this government. After N years at the interest rate debt would grow to D, in parentheses 1+I to entou, while savings would be evaluated to S, which is 1+I to entou. If the interest rate on the bond was equal to the annual rate of appreciation of funds in private pension funds, it would still be true that D equals S. The idea that the issuance of bonds of recognition could increase overall well-being is therefore illusionary. The objection may be that the interest rate on government debt I may not be equal to the annual appreciation of funds in pension funds J. Optimists would say that J will be higher than I, this is the annual appreciation of funds in funds will be higher than the interest rate on debt. In fact, such a assumption may not apply. The huge amount of free capital accumulated in pension funds can reduce interest rates, see Kubíček 2004. The rise of government deficits to bearable levels would, in turn, undermine financial markets that would demand greater returns for investing in bonds. Although it is not a priori clear which situation will arise, it is quite possible that the average rate of inflation from debt and annual appreciation will cancel each other out. It is possible to agree with Vostatek from 1998, that the fund system kind of resembles perpetuum mobile. If we have capital, we can have a return on capital. However, in order to obtain it, we must first save it. So either we can maintain a relative pension in the future, and then we have to save more and less to consume today, or we are going to consume today just like last generations, and then we have to accept lower pensions. The claim by Kreidl of 1998 that a system with a higher weight of fund financing could bring higher pensions with the same contributions is therefore unbelievable. This finding is based solely on a static comparison of pensions, from accumulated pensions to income from the interim system, while completely ignoring that people will have to pay higher taxes for the recognition bonds once, which would reduce normal consumption or higher inflation, which would devalue savings. The calculations of the implicit debt and its comparison with the explicit debt are rather misleading. First of all, it needs to be realised that implicit debt is fictional, that is, it is calculated as a hypothetical debt that would arise if the parameters of the continuous system were not changed. However, parameters will not change over time. Second, however, radical pension reform with the help of debt recognition is worse, as it turns this implicit debt into explicit. The estimates of the cost of the transition to the Fund's system are huge. If current pensioners are to receive an old-age pension like today and the middle-generation are to receive at least part of the pensions from the interim system, the costs of the transition range from one half to twice the GDP, although the authors are comforting that the implicit debt in the interim system is even higher, i.e. fictitious, while their debt is real. It can be agreed with the 1998 Kreidl that the mechanical maintenance of the ongoing system by means of higher taxes completely ignores the effects on the whole economy: tax evasion, unemployment and labour market distortion. The result would be a slowdown or a halt to GDP and wages growth. However, it is all the more surprising to resolve the pension reform by means of recognition bonds, which would have practically the same effect, as they would have to be repaid once. Whether you like it or not, the current young and middle generation cannot waive its responsibility for pension reform. They either pay it in the form of higher taxes or higher taxes in the future. [[unintelligible]] The idea that he can lie out of his responsibility or even reach higher pensions is unrealistic. No reform of the pension system can fundamentally solve this fundamental problem of intergenerational conflict. It is therefore difficult to agree with Holzmann's view of 1996 that the aim of pension reform is to make Paretian improvements. paretý-efficient shift would occur in a situation where at least a group could improve without any other group being offended. This, however, is difficult to fulfill in the face of adverse demographic developments, in which all generations will inevitably suffer relatively worse. The truth is, Bezděk, of 2001, that austerity measures in pension systems lead to a deterioration in the standard of living of future pensioners compared to the current situation. If today's middle and young generation wants to maintain a standard of living at an older age, it will have to limit its consumption today. Therefore, if people optimize consumption in two periods, productive and postproductive, their overall well-being will not increase. Of course, this does not rule out that specific individuals who are wise enough to save enough money for a pension will be looking forward to resting on the same or even higher relative pensions than their parents. Overall, however, each generation, thanks to the current pension system crisis, will have to make sacrifices. It will consume less in productive periods or in retirement. No lunch is free. [[16.50 hours]] It can be agreed with Schneider's view of 1998 that the ageing population will have a negative impact on economic growth over the next 20 years and there will be a decline in investment and real wages due to taxes needed to finance pensions. However, its estimate of an increase in economic potential of 0,5 percent of GDP thanks to the Fund's system is rather speculative. Even with the introduction of a fund system, the economy would bear the cost of demographic ageing. Kotlikoff's claim of 1996 on the positive impact of privatisation of the pension system on economic growth is therefore questionable. If reform were accompanied by budgetary consolidation, it could be right for a long period of time. But the increase in debt resulting from the reform will have the opposite effect. Too short a time series to demonstrate clearly the link between pension reform and economic growth. Although Gramm also supports the privatisation of the pension system in 1998, his proposal for reform is more realistic than Kotlikoffův. It does not borrow for the transition, but introduces a special saving rate and leaves the US social security rate unchanged for 2060. Thus, it is not the young and middle generation that will save their standard of living, but it is moving towards reform more transparently and responsibly. And let's go to the next part. In this section, the authors of the publication here - I stress once again that it does not copy the opinion, the political opinion of the SPD, it is just one of the many papers that is certainly good only to know about it. In this section we will outline the basic model of pension reform in the Czech Republic, as shown by the author's previous analysis. We will outline the basic parameters of the new pension scheme, which is based on the calculation of the executive pension reform team. We will then look at the question of whether the ongoing system is to penalize the childless in order to offset at least a little adverse demographic developments. So basic philosophy. One can make sure of the age of three ways. First, it can postpone current consumption and create private savings, money deposits, stocks, bonds, as well as private pensions. Second, one can provide for old age by producing and raising responsible children. When children are young, parents provide them with food, clothing, and education. When children grow up, they return gifts to parents in the form of cash or material transfers. Third, a person participates in a social security program. It is wrong when the debate on old-age security is constantly focused only on the third part. It should not be dominant in a free society, and certainly not the only source of security in old age. State pensions will fall over the next decades in all countries that record adverse demographic developments. This is valid regardless of the type of pension reform that the country will undergo. The transformation process in the first half of the 1990s created a pension scheme based on two pillars: a compulsory pension scheme in which the principle of solidarity is applied and the financing of which is ongoing, and a voluntary supplementary pension scheme with a state contribution designed as an individual savings and based on capital financing. Between 2002 and 2006, a group was formed at the Ministry of Finance, which calculated the balance of the pension system according to the options submitted by the political parties. The view that the pension system needs to be reformed has prevailed among democratic political parties. However, the parties' proposals differed. While the ODS presented the concept of equal income, ČSSD recommended a Swedish model with fictional accounts. The Swedish model with fictitious accounts, which binds the pension paid more to the contributions paid, is rather a cosmetic change. Although this change is a step towards greater addressability, the question is why people should pay their contributions to the ongoing system rather than directly to private funds. On the contrary, the ongoing system should ensure solidarity, voluntary savings should take into account the income and performance of the taxpayer. The debate on pension reform is now facing two extremes: on the one hand, doing nothing, on the other hand, radical reform. They're both wrong. [[Speaker interrupted by a colleague from the O.R.]] Sorry, I'm here now... So the debate on pension reform is now two extremes ahead of us. On the one hand, do nothing, on the other hand, radical reform. They're both wrong. It is not right to look at how the pension system is falling into ever deeper deficits. On the other hand, radical reform will not provide new capital if the increase in savings in pension funds is financed by state debt. Many authors call for privatization of the pension system. It is, however, necessary to decide whether we should not privatise it in full or in part. The complete privatisation, which would mean the loss of any minimum of life guaranteed by the state, is hardly imaginable. It is unlikely that in Central Europe or in the West, people would be willing to make such a radical change in thinking. This is why a gradual privatisation is offered in today's Czech Republic. The idea of reform remains to limit citizens' dependence on the state that has been and is still excessive in the past. The role of the state has changed compared to the previous regime and it needs to be precisely defined. It is necessary to create conditions for people to deal more and more with social problems, situations and events with their own forces and actions. On the other hand, the state is supposed to intervene where the citizen's own forces and family forces are not enough. Most OECD countries have had a two-pillar pension system for a long time, consisting of a state ongoing system and private, and this needs to be stressed by voluntary pension plans. A total of 14 of the 34 OECD countries combine State income with compulsory savings in funds. In most OECD countries, private pension funds operate on a voluntary basis. The model is therefore a combination of state income and private voluntary savings. So let's think about the evolutionary concept. [[Speaker interrupted by a colleague from the O.R.]] Yeah, I could use a pie.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u237	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u238	There was an interesting offer. Such a suggestion. It is only possible to implement the pension revolution by changing the socio-political factors affecting the pension system. Since we do not expect such a rapid shift in preferences of most residents of the Czech Republic, we offer a gradual, not radical change of pension system. Such a proposal is not only economically meaningful but even more politically transparent. Breaking a stick over an ongoing system is premature. Continuous systems are sensitive to changes in parameters. Pension, wage ratio, pension and retirement age rates. You can agree with Chand, maybe it's read by Čand, it's a question from 1996 that the combination of changes in parameters of the continuous system can be offset by the most desperate cases. [[17,00 hours]] The Czech Republic should take advantage of a unique opportunity and gradually depress the state pension ratio - wages over the decade. The table shows that the gradual reduction in the share of the state pension - the average wage has been a real process for over 15 years. Therefore, there should be no tragedy if this share would continue to decrease to 30 per cent in 2030 or 20 per cent in 2050. Well, I don't agree with that either. Because again, we at the SPD just want that dignified pension guaranteed by the state. So these are some of the author's hypotheses, but as we can see, it's debatable from the point of view of other economists. Well, I'd like to add that. Again, what I'm reading here is not opinions that copy the SPD's views. It is a book on one of the possibilities, one of the many reflections on the concept of pension reform. So, for the loudest differences, of course, I'm gonna mark it today to make sure there's no mistake.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u239	For the record, we are in a phase where we are discussing whether there is a legislative emergency.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u240	That's what I'm trying to explain right here, because that's what I was explaining to your foreman.), and I just found out that I haven't got my eyes in the back, that you've already changed. I'm just trying to argue here, which is why it's extensive, because you, as the Fialův Government, are rationalizing that you want to rob nearly 3 million Czech pensioners of the promised and legal diplomacy by threatening significant economic damage. I have already mentioned my speech, and I have recycled it several times, that I am trying to explain to you that payment of dignified pensions is certainly not economic damage. I'm trying to explain to you in detail why this is not economic damage and that to simply do pension reform, to give people adequate pensions, how and how to achieve that model of your government, when you want to cut people's pensions and rob almost 3 million pension recipients of money, that it is not the way. That's why I'm explaining this in a), your reason that you want a legislative emergency because of threatening economic damage, that it's odd that you get it all wrong. That's why I'm explaining. So that's basic. But that's when Vice-President Skopeček was here. When I was explaining it, he wasn't talking to me all the time, because that's what he understood.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u241	From the point of view of the structure of the meeting, of course, this contribution is more of a general debate. But if you insist with priority rights, continue. But a real legislative emergency is a little bit about different content. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u242	Well, thank you for being kind. I'm not gonna argue about it, so I'm gonna keep going. But, of course, the legislative need to justify... If you'd given other reasons, you know, like threatened state security or fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens, maybe there could also be a longer argument. And maybe the security could be shorter. Well, I guess we'd have to reason here, wouldn't we? Maybe the discussion could be shorter. But the moment you say that there is considerable economic damage by not wanting to pay off the promised valorisation, it really deserves a wider discussion. And I think we all already know that the reasoning and how we all see it, the debate is wider and hard to grasp how broad it should be. But thank you for being kind to me anyway. This shows from the table that this gradual reduction in the share of the state pension - the average wage has been a real process for over 15 years. No, no, I already said that. So valorizing pensions by price is no tragedy. There is virtually no wage indexing anywhere in the world. In practice, pensions are valued by prices or by a combination of prices and wages. This passive approach can make the Czech pension system much easier. At the same time, citizens need to be encouraged to save on old age. Citizens should know that if they do not save on old age, they will have a standard of living only at the minimum level of life. Again, we in the SPD are in favour of ensuring that the guaranteed state pension provides decent pensions for citizens. There's a little bit of another direction here, or a lot of a different direction than the SPD's view. This evolutionary, not revolutionary, resolution of the pension system crisis is a compromise between two extremes: doing nothing and falling into ever deeper deficits, and radical reform with the same consequence. If, in the short and medium term, there is no radical change in the political preferences of the population, which is unlikely, it is possible to agree at least on a compromise. Change the parameters of the continuous system in order to gradually reduce its weight on the security in old age. Of course, it is necessary to look for savings within the existing system. The combination of pensions and income from work, for example, is problematic. The abolition of widows and widows' pensions, which seem to be outdone today, is worth considering. - Well, those are proposals that we really can't agree with at all. All the more so, the surviving partner inherits the private pension savings of the other partner. Well, more than 30% of pension benefits come from areas other than old-age pensions. Early retirement should be reduced. - Well, there really is a controversy in this material where I really, really stress again that it doesn't copy the SPD designs. But once again, it is one of the x-books that discusses the ways and possibilities of pension reform. So I'm stressing this again for the media, so that no one here can catch me, that these are the opinions of the Okamura. No, no, no. Continue to increase... Well, not at all. Because the author here says that it is necessary to continue increasing the age limit for men and women over 65 years of age. Well, isn't that a book inspired by Petr Fiala's government? 'Cause that's not it at all. So we certainly don't agree with this as an SPD to increase the retirement age. Well, I guess he wasn't counting on the Purple government to be here, to throw out tens of billions of God knows, I've already said that, from Ukraine to I don't know everything, and now he doesn't have money for pensions. It's the book that's older than the date. Today there are proposals in the US to postpone retirement age. The life expectancy in the Czech Republic continues to extend, suggesting that people of later age are healthier and more efficient than in the past. - Well, that's not true either, because I quoted it here 14 days ago, I think, and it's even a report, I guess, even a general health insurance company, even with the Health Department, that the age of health in men is 62 and 63 years of age in women. This means that extending the average age does not mean prolonging the age in health at the same time. That's different. So it's going to extend, but it's also going to extend their age, which these people are already spending with some kind of disease. So the author doesn't really take this into account. Well, you see, that's quite an interesting piece of material. Well, it's interesting how some of these economists see it just quite socially, I mean the situation. So we can't agree with the SPD here at all on what the author says. The social security contribution would have been maintained at the current level, but without any additional debts. If the ongoing system were to be compensated by an increase in the pension rate, it would contribute to higher unemployment. A further increase in the pension rate would weaken incentives to invest, create distortions in the labour market and slow economic growth. On the other hand, however, the author's proposal for pension reform, i.e. the author of the book, does not count on further reductions in social security contributions, however, for example contracting out, when the first part of the pension system goes into the state pension system and the second half has a positive effect on private accounts. Reservation against this solution is not in principle, but rejects the debt financing of this operation. If the pension relief is once offset by higher taxes, there is no point. Well, logically. The proposed reform is based on a new intergenerational contract, the older generation will have slightly lower relative pensions than the generations of the previous and middle and young generation will reduce their productive consumption, either because of higher taxes or because they will save in private funds. In the end, the costs of aging into a pension system are divided between the older, middle and younger generations. [[17.10 hours]] The calculations of the executive pension reform team www.reformaduchodu.cz show that by extending the retirement age for men and women to 65 years, it would reduce - to 65 years, not over 65 years - the implicit debt in the ongoing system by 2100 to 250 percent of GDP to 100 percent of GDP. The price-by-price indexing would also reduce the implicit deficit by 100 per cent of GDP by 2100, even while maintaining the pension ratio - an average wage at a decent level of 35 per cent by 2100. This means that a combination of the two methods can eliminate the accumulated deficit of the pension system by 2100 to 50 per cent of GDP. This deficit is not negligible, however, in the context of other numbers not astronomical. They can be reduced or completely interrupted by gradual reduction of the pension ratio - a salary of 30 per cent, for example. Another 65 - year - old pension increase remains in the reserve, which, of course, the SPD refuses. I would like to emphasise that. And for us, we don't want to reduce the pension versus wage ratio. I also want to emphasise this once again. It's been dropped, I've talked about it here. On the contrary, we want to increase the pension ratio - wages. That means that the average pension is approaching the average wage. So I would like to point out that there are also some opinions that we, as in the SPD, cannot agree with. We have an opinion about it from this one I said. Privatisation of the pension system is worthwhile, but should not take place at the cost of indebting future or current generations. Well, I did the privatization of the pension system, as Mr Kalousek of the TOP 09 did when he was the finance minister in the government with the ODS, we disagree. That, in my opinion, was a burglar in broad daylight. A thief in broad daylight; to bring citizens' money to private funds. So she's privatization and privatization. Voluntary contributions to the system are certainly to be discussed, I think, voluntary contributions to those private funds, but the state must, in the opinion of the SPD, guarantee dignified pensions for all citizens. In implementing pension reform, it is therefore better, according to the author, to favour budgetary consolidation strategies instead of financing by debt, which others can increase private savings and promote economic growth. Well, budgetary consolidation, yes. But not as much as the Fialův government intends to do here at the expense of our citizens. So, of course, now there's a passage, the author of the book here writes, "Is it childless without retirement?" he asks. The idea of Rusnok, Hyzl and Kulhavý from 2004 so that people who have no children do not receive any state retirement pensions, according to the author is not senseless in the context of population studies. Well, we don't think so. We think that even children without children should receive pensions because they also take them into the system and there is a series of simply - this is typically an antisocial proposal here that we do not agree with. Because people work their whole lives, and they need to be childless, because they can't have children for health reasons. How do they come by that? So I can't agree with what it says here either. But that's why these things need to be said here, what who and how they talk about it, so that we can, of course, reject a number of these proposals. We can agree with some, but a number must be rejected. That means, I think it's simply a suggestion that those who have no children receive no retirement pensions, I think it's really nonsense. We refuse to take that into account. The author here admits it, we say no that they should also receive pensions. According to the authors, the contribution to the pension system is either real savings in the case of a fund system or properly raised children in the case of an ongoing system. The idea of a built-in population development stabilizer has a tradition in literature. vental (?) from 1989, it is a statement here, based on Samuelsonův-Diamondův's model of overlapping generations and points out that a decentralised economy could fail in achieving Pareto's optimal path. However, a system of continuously funded systems where transfers are proportional to the number of children raised could restore balance and restore optimism. In 1993, Cigno proposed that the State should determine the amount of resources that each person must devote to his child, and that the pension benefits from the state system at least follow up on the number of children raised. Similarly, Sinn, of 2003, argues that the ongoing system assumes responsibility for people's provision of old age, thereby causing childlessness. Therefore, the author suggests that those who do not have children will receive a smaller pension. Although they have similar suggestions from the point of view of the author logic, they raise questions for intra-generational equality, since some couples can be more fruitful than others. Well, some, of course, for medical reasons, maybe they can't have children. So we in the SPD don't want to discriminate against such citizens. Yes, it says here: In the population there is a certain proportion of people who cannot have children: barren, priests, homosexuals, etc. These people would be discriminated against by such a proposal. If benefits depend on the number of children born, parents would devote as little resources as possible to each child. The fact that contributions to the interim system are payment to parents, not payment to our future pension, is only partly true. Children are one of the assets that people invest in when they are old. State pension is, on the contrary, a social benefit that should depend on the minimum level of living. The help of children to parents should be a natural intergenerational aid that the state should not enforce. The privatisation of the pension system itself should have a beneficial effect on fertility, which is to reduce the benefits of the ongoing system. Well, these are the real opinions of the author. I have a problem with that, like the SPD, with these designs. By reducing the weight of the ongoing system in ensuring old age, it will motivate people to look for alternative ways of ensuring old age for a state pension. Well, it really isn't applicable to the Czech Republic at all, because today, the Fialův Government has brought record inflation, record price increases, so we still have to harm people, citizens, by not even getting a decent retirement from the state, so the SPD doesn't agree with that. That's why we're here today. And right here, I'm trying to explain to the government here that you just want to rob nearly 3 million citizens of their pensions and you want to reduce the valorization to which they're legally entitled, that it's just wrong that people need to give pensions, because it's already getting more expensive here, the cost of living, that people are just in need. I've read here, I've already said here in my speech in the introduction that you've put millions of people here into poverty, even below the poverty line. So, to privatize the pension system here and reduce income payments from the interim system, which is what you're proposing here, we absolutely don't agree with that. And not at all, I'm going to repeat why I'm reading this here, that it's not the argument that the state is threatened with significant economic damage by paying pensioners the pensions they're entitled to. This is completely unacceptable at all justification for the SPD. So I'm explaining why we don't agree with this, with the proposal, but also with the fact that it's a legislative emergency. We disagree. After all, I've already proposed this morning, I've already proposed to cancel the legislative emergency. So my proposal will be put to the vote here after the general debate. So we do not promote any privatisation of the pension system or any reduction in income from the ongoing system. On the contrary, we want to increase pensions from the ongoing system and refuse to privatise the pension system. We want the state to guarantee dignified pensions. So that's from our point of view, because I know that some people here may have antisocial suggestions that who needs childless and can't have children, so that we don't give him a pension. Well, the SPD doesn't agree with that. We reject these considerations. I'm just being honest with you. I can't even agree with the author of this book here or here - I've heard it somewhere before that someone said it. There. So let me get this straight. The pension system in many countries has gone into a serious crisis. His bankruptcy would be a tragedy, not like a tragedy experienced in great depression. Hm. To believe that under the current ongoing system, people might be looking forward to the same high pensions that generations of our parents had would be irresponsible, writes the author. [[17.20 hours]] That's what I think the author is going off here, too, because I think our parents had lower pensions, because, of course, pensions are increasing gradually, but prices are increasing accordingly too. And today, this monstrous inflation because of the Fialův government, which is much higher than the average in the European Union. So, on the contrary, we think that people should be looking forward to adequately high pensions. After all, let's look at Austria, see Germany for pensions. So it's exactly the opposite of what the author says. On the contrary, the SPD is pushing people to enjoy high pensions and to be guaranteed by the state. And we don't want to privatize pensions. Now, according to Aaronův's rule, the introduction of a fund system should be more advantageous if the yield of private pension funds is higher than the sum of population growth rates and average wages. In practice, however, the application of this rule is more difficult because there are non-zero costs of transition between the two systems. The costs of demographic ageing will affect a productive and non-productive generation regardless of the type of pension system. Today, the ongoing system is almost universally damned and salvation is sought in the fund system. How in general? We're not losing the ongoing system. The fund system and bringing public money into private funds was what Mr Kalousek here from TOP 09 wanted with the ODS government when they ruled together ten years ago. That's what the others wanted, we didn't. And this is the top of the line. The author here says that privatization of the pension system is worthwhile. Well, no, you don't. We don't want to do anything like that. But there's a risk from the five-calice government, of course. And it needs to be prevented, because you already did when you were ODS and TOP 09 in the coalition 2010 to 2013, so you already tried. And quite successfully. We canceled it later. So that's not it. I'm sure there is still a summary of the ways in which pension reform is being implemented that it would be good to give priority to the budgetary consolidation strategy rather than to debt financing. Well, of course. I can agree with that. But the question is, how do we implement this budgetary consolidation? We disagree with the five-calice government here. That means you want to raise taxes to Czech citizens and throw money at nonsense abroad. Well, I don't call that the right way. The SPD doesn't agree with this model. On the other hand, we want to cut off the expenditure and move the money to our people and not increase their taxes. So it's a different model. She's consolidation and consolidation. You need to look at the contents. Well, that's exactly it. Here again, you can agree with that sentence. At present, they control the political debate on pension reform in directions that are politically contradictory, but they have one thing in common, solving the pension problem by means of debt. One part of the political spectrum is too lax in adjusting the parameters of the continuous system, thus throwing the system into deep deficits. The second part favours radical reform, but would be financed again by an increase in government debt. Both solutions hide serious pitfalls. Real reform should be budgetaryly neutral, it is not to create new pension deficits, whether explicit or implicit. Therefore, it should gradually adjust the parameters of the continuous system. At present, there is an increase in retirement age - the SPD fundamentally rejects this - and the reduction in the share of the average pension - wages - is also rejected by the SPD. Here are the suggestions that the Fialův government seems to inspire. We don't want that. We don't want that. The SPD refuses to increase the retirement age and we also refuse to reduce the share of the average pension. We want to increase the share of the average pension - wages. So it's pretty clear. Well, and it needs to be supported, of course, which surprises me that it's here... the author didn't mention it at all in his opinions with which, as I say, the SPD doesn't agree, but we're discussing this because the SPD is simply proposing to the maximum to support working families with children or working families so that they don't be afraid to have two or three children so that the demographic curve starts again, because when we have a lot of families working, which then, when they grow up, of course, there's the assumption that these people are going to be working, and that, of course, then they're going to go up to the system, so it's crucial to the sustainability of the pension system, in the opinion of the SPD, so this author isn't even talking about the support of working families. We see that the material has quite large gaps, I must say. He's talking about raising the retirement age and reducing pensions against wages. But he completely forgot some things.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u243	Mr President, we are not discussing the text of the book, but whether there is a legislative emergency.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u244	Sure. Let's see how it is. Well, does it last? I already suggested we cancel it. And there will be a vote on that. And I'm trying to justify it here, I'm going to justify it again to come out, here's my Section 99. Once again, I am trying to explain to you that not only are there no grounds for legislative emergency, we have not yet voted on it, that is still to be voted on, whether the situation is ongoing, whether the conditions in a legislative emergency are possible at all. So we're in the debate right now that I don't think that there's any reason for that. And I'm trying to explain it to you here. Yeah? On the contrary, I think it is precisely the state of emergency that needs to be abolished. I've already made the proposal, it's going to be voted on. I have the exact opposite opinion. But you're right, I'm not here to argue or uselessly, but I'm gonna move on here as a matter of fact. Because I just think that solving pensions and paying pensions, yet notabene, when all beneficiaries of retirement are legally entitled to it at present, so that it is not only a state of legislative emergency, but I am trying to explain in real detail here that we cannot gamble on this issue at all. You can't gamble. It's a serious matter. I'm trying to explain to you the different opinions about the pension scheme. I'm trying to tell you that we don't agree with this, and certainly not in a legislative emergency, to cut people's pensions. So I'm explaining. Let's take a look, because we need to explain to your government what the situation is about these pensions and that there is no legislative emergency on the way, and to rob the pensioners in the legislative emergency system. That's why I'm saying it's not the way that it's the way to hell. This is not a system solution, which is why I'm bringing up these different models here and I'm trying to get the government to listen to what and how to explain the reasons why I think there's no legislative emergency at all, and of course not vote on your proposal to rob people of the pensions they legitimately expected and counted on them. Let's see what an international comparison of pension systems is. And that's not exactly easy, because you guys want to cut people off a thousand bucks a month. But it just can't be done like that, and certainly not in a legislative emergency in my opinion. That's what you need to be justified here. And because pension systems affect national traditions and local customs, we will find a great variety of pension systems. The European Union does not recommend any uniform pension scheme. European countries are making very careful changes to their pension systems. However, some tendencies are similar. The aim of this chapter, which I will talk about, is to examine pension systems in five European countries. They all represent welfare states, but their specific parameters differ. Among the countries with the Bismarck pension system are Germany and France. Sweden serves as an example of the Scandinavian model. Slovakia represents a group of Central European countries which have implemented radical reforms following the Chilean model. Great Britain is an example of a more liberal model. And now, once again, there are some personal opinions. And I have to say, the looks are different. Again, I stress that this does not copy the SPD's view of the matter. I, too, am going to comment on the hottest moments, to make it clear that somebody here doesn't associate it with the SPD's opinions. [[17.30 hours]] So the author here says that far fewer elderly people currently live in poverty than, for example, in the 1980s. People live longer, are relatively healthier and their relative standard of living has risen in comparison with the past decades ago, says the author. Yeah, well, it's gotten pretty expensive, too, and there's a whole other cost, which isn't being commented on again. And let's see what it looks like in Europe. So, for example, Germany. Germany has the oldest social security pension system established in 1899 by Chancellor Otto von Bismarck. The original idea of the functioning of German pension insurance was fund insurance against disability. However, it soon became a compulsory pension scheme, which, after its capital value had been devalued, turned into an ongoing system after World War II. Today's form of the basic pension system is based on the principle of the ongoing system of 1957. The first pillar is continuously funded. Employers and employees are involved in financing the system. The contribution of 18,9 % is divided between employees and employers, self-employed persons, self-employed persons, self-employed persons, and the contributions are also paid. The system is managed by branch social insurance companies, which are managed by representatives of employers, employees and the state. Participation in the first pillar is compulsory for employees and certain groups of public servants. In order for a citizen to benefit from a pension from an interim scheme, he must contribute at least five years to the scheme - which, by the way, is a record low period of compulsory participation in international comparison - and reach the retirement age of 65. However, early retirement can also be used. The amount of benefits in the case of early retirement is reduced by 0,3 % for each month below the standard retirement period. The basic German pension system is defined as a batch. The pension is based on so-called profit points that depend on individual earnings and the number of years worked. Honekamp writes about this well in 2007. If a husband or wife dies, part of the pension claim is transferred to a widow, widower, or living children. The basic ongoing pension scheme is based on the principle of equivalence. The pension system in Germany is quite generous. That's what you need to hear. In Germany, the average old-age pension provided for lifelong earning was based on 70 percent of the income, previous net income - 70 percent! And here Minister Stanjura for the ODS is arguing some nonsense. He's talking nonsense. He wants to drag us somewhere in developing countries, while we should be getting closer to developed countries. Well, that's totally... Indeed, the statements of Vice-President of the ODS and Minister of Finance Stanjura, that really does not merit commentary anymore, simply antisocial proposals, incompetent proposals completely, I do not understand. And at aggregate level, the share of public pension spending in Germany is 10,6 percent, which is 2.5 times more than in the US. Well, also in America, as we know, when he's poor, he's really poor, and he can barely reach adequate health care. We don't want that here either, the American model, I've never promoted it. There are others who go to America to train all the time, Mr. Farský went there to train and others here for the government. So this is 70 percent of the previous net revenue, so let's not be surprised what nice pensions are there, of course. The second pillar in Germany, as in many EU countries, is corporate pensions. Participation in business plans is optional. About 90 percent of companies with more than five thousand employees have their own plans. Business plans about the pensions. Pensions from which pensionable pensions may be drawn after retirement age. The scheme must guarantee at least the nominal value of the contributions paid. The citizen may benefit from State aid or tax advantage. In 2001, the government conducted a pension reform by Chancellor Schröder Schröder, which introduced supplementary pension schemes as the third pillar of the pension system. Citizens do not have to participate, but they are tax-privileged. The supplementary schemes shall be supported by the staff member, the employer and the State. It can be a regular pension, pension fund, contributions to individual plans and bank savings plans. Does Heiglich write about it? in 2006. So-called Listerův (?) Reform, named after the then Minister of Labour Walter Lister (?) extended the second and third pillars and reduced the importance of the first pillar of pension security. The 2001 pension reform did not change the system, yet it represented a significant shift because it strengthened the importance of employee and private pension plans that have so far played a marginal role. And once again, I would like to say that I am speaking to the point. Because you are proposing here, and I want to emphasise this again for the next President, because I suspect that, under the current President... Yeah, there's already been a change, so it's third or... [[Vice-President Havlíček is sitting behind the chair at the moment.]] Okay, well, I think it's gonna be a little bit longer, 'cause I'm not halfway there, so we'll see how this goes. But I wanted to say that a legislative emergency is not a solution, a legislative emergency to promote that we do not agree with it, which is why I say this at this point, notabene is still legislative in the need to promote a reduction in pensions for citizens. Because it's basically a reduction, that you want to rob all the pension recipients of the promised valorization. And I'm just trying to say here with my rather detailed interpretation and speech that these methods of ensuring, on the contrary, raising pensions and ensuring adequate pensions, I'm giving you a comparison of other models from abroad and an overall perspective. So, of course, it's up to what I'm saying, and it needs to be said. Because, quite frankly, we don't agree with legislative urgency, and now we don't explain why, and what the SPD proposal or international comparison is like, well, no, I really don't, I wouldn't feel like I didn't justify it properly in front of me. On the contrary, there is a need for a very detailed explanation in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. And the third pillar of the German pension system is voluntary insurance or savings. In the Federal Republic of Germany, the old-age security model is extended with regard to life insurance. Products function as private, beneficially defined pension plans. Business and private contribution plans enjoy tax and other advantages, and pensions from business plans are not subject to taxation. Hmm, that's a nice touch. In 2001 about two thirds of German citizens between 30 and 60 years of age said they were contributing privately to their pension. However, the pension income from these savings will not amount to an average of 5 percent of the income of incoming pensioners. In 2005, 27 percent of Němec admitted to participating in corporate pension schemes. The 2001 pension reform therefore did not lead to a significant strengthening of the third pillar. Well, it's remarkable anyway. Because there are people here, where the KDU-ČSL chairman is the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, so you always go to Germany. On the other hand, you have to take the example that, assuming lifelong employment in Germany, 70 per cent of the previous net income is a pension, and on the contrary, you want to reduce those pensions. These are interesting paradoxes. You're just gonna rip something out that's useful, but most importantly, it's gonna be negative for the citizens. [[17.40 hours]] While until 2001 the company was mainly a voluntary activity of the employer, from 2002 employees have the right to require a business pension plan. Nevertheless, participation in corporate or private schemes did not increase massively. Ninety per cent of the people with higher incomes participated in private pension plans, while only 20 per cent of the people with low incomes paid to the third pillar of pension security. The German pension system is quite complicated, it contains a number of exceptions, so it is understood by experts at the Ministry of Labour rather than by clients. In the second pillar only 40 percent of the active Němec entered the second pillar in ten years, with less than a third of their number in low-income groups. The original goal of achieving 20 million Němec, who entrust part of their earnings to the financial institutions, remains in sight. The German pension system is a symbol of the generosity of the welfare state. The state of prosperity has become the foundation of the German socio-market model. The German economy... but recent problems have arisen because the German economy and demographic developments are no longer so strong and there is a debate as to whether the current conditions can be maintained. Germany is a typical representative of Bismarckův's pension model. It works on a combination of principles of solidarity and equivalence. The German model is corporate when tripartite is involved in social security management. I was talking about that about an hour ago. Public pension insurance has become the basis of post-war German social policy. The question is how sustainable it will be in the future. Well, let's see how they deal with this in the UK, for example, because I'm saying again, we're at the point of confirming the duration of a legislative emergency, but it doesn't exactly seem to me right now, which is why I'm explaining here that there's supposed to be some kind of legislative emergency at all. That is why I have proposed to abolish the legislative emergency and my proposal will be voted on after the general debate. So it needs to be said in detail that... again I say, here I have heard some hints, but luckily I can't hear him now, at the very beginning of my speech, as if I didn't have adequate justification here, that the proposal for a legislative emergency, that it's actually wrong, that it's completely inadequate, that it's like itself... I don't even want to discuss the fact that this isn't from my point of view, from the SPD's point of view, at all... I refuse to discuss whether to cut someone's pensions more or less. This is your discussion, your five-wheeler. I'm just not gonna be manipulated into this discussion. I'm here discussing from the floor that you're doing it wrong and that you shouldn't have designed anything like that at all, and certainly not in a legislative emergency like that. So that's why it's more extensive here, because it's obvious that the government's five-calibers don't understand what you're suggesting here, stealing almost 3 million people in a ten-million-dollar republic from pensions. This does not work at all, it really deserves a broad discussion in the sense that the SPD absolutely rejects it, reducing pensions and what you are doing here. So let's see how it is... Great Britain. So what I'm trying to explain here is that if you were doing it like in those advanced countries, you wouldn't have to come up with this legislative emergency proposal, you wouldn't have to rob retired people at all. But obviously, that's not enough government competence, is it?, the current government. Great Britain is one of the few countries in Europe that is not facing a serious pension crisis. On the one hand, state pensions are among the lowest in Europe, but on the other hand, Britain has a long-standing and stable fund pension sector, and its population does not age as quickly as in Europe, and governments have taken measures to avert the pension crisis. Well, that's what the five-caliber government lacks. So the only thing I've heard from you guys so far is to take the people's promised pensions. Well, that's no reform. That's completely insane. That's why we're rejecting it here, too. Well, I'm just saying, we're doing... Of course, we're building this here, because the SPD has made it clear that by all democratic means we will prevent you from robbing nearly 3 million pensioners of the promised pensions. I'm being honest with you, and we're not ashamed of it. And we all know that. The government coalition knows why I'm talking here, and so do we. And, of course, it's gonna be... It's a struggle to the power, but you have the advantage, because there are most of you, and you will certainly take some undemocratic steps to limit the opposition and to rob the pensioners as quickly as possible. But we don't agree, and we're gonna stop it. So let's go to Britain. Over the past 30 years, governments have made two major changes. On the one hand, they reduced the cost of old-age insurance to the State by limiting the benefits of state schemes and, on the other hand, involving the private sector more in the game. Conservative governments have introduced supplementary pension schemes along with contracting out. Labour governments have imposed restrictions on the structure of unit capital schemes that have helped to find economies of scale and lower fees. Miles and Iben wrote about it in 2000. The UK pension system is quite complicated. The system is multi-pillary and very complex. In general, it includes a range of products, i.e. state, corporate or private, batch or contribution-defined, variously responsible parties. By those parties, I don't mean the political parties, but the state, the employer, and so on. Staff members are obliged to plan their own pension and bear all risks, including investment risk, interest risk and longevity risks. The pension system in Great Britain offers, above all, one equal dose with universal coverage, the so-called basic state pension. The basic pension is supplemented by a number of tested benefits. Employed persons have basic security extended by the pension component tied to age, second state pension and so on, other pillars include corporate and personal pension plans. In the first pillar are the basic state pension and the second state pension and the tested benefits. In the second pillar are defined corporate income, defined corporate income, personal pension or collectively negotiated individual plans and capital share pensions. The third pillar represents additional voluntary contributions to business plans and separate, separate, contribution-defined pension accounts. Workers and self-employed persons contribute to the first pillar, which is publicly and continuously funded. Insurance is 10 per cent for the employee and 11.9 per cent for the employer. In addition to the basic state pension, there is a graduated old-age pension based on earnings since 1978. In the 1990s, the ratio of the average state pension versus wage was 25 per cent, today falling to up to 20 per cent. Pensions in Britain are subject to taxation, the increase in income on dependent children is not taxed. They're indexed by price. The second pillar offers business schemes, agreed personal pension insurance and new equity insurance. There is no formal commitment to participate in the second pillar. The pension entitlement arises at 65 years of age. The pensions from the second pillar can be defined both by contribution and by dose. Staff members may participate in one of the schemes of the second pillar, to withdraw from the second state pension. Individual plans that can be tied up are defined by contribution. A staff member who is entitled to a second national pension shall pay the same contribution rate as a non-tied worker. But the disposition of these funds is different. [[17.50 hours]] From contractual outs, part of the pension contributions of workers shall be transferred to his individual pension account, but his future pension from the first pillar shall be reduced. Today, the share of citizens using contractual outs is at least three fifths. The British Government serves as a settlement centre for contributions made to the first, so contributions made to the second pillar. Each worker participating in the second pillar of a business scheme shall have an account with his employer and a company which receives contributions to the second pillar, usually a pension fund or insurance company. Those who take part in the second pillar and want to draw benefits must ask for their payment between 60 and 75 years of age. Pension benefits purchased from an insurance company and individual accounts are indexed up to 5 per cent per year. If an individual is married or is married and the partner dies, the company must pay the widower or widow half the benefits that the deceased husband or wife received. The insurance product market is developing dynamically. In 2004, two large British insurance companies sent hundreds of thousands of clients letters telling them that the benefits would be low and advised them to stop making pension contributions and return to the state social security system. Half a million people actually listened and returned to the first pillar where they could draw a second state pension. The advantage or disadvantage of transferring funds from the State pillar to the private or corporate pillar depends on the situation on the financial markets. When prices on the capital market rise, contracting out becomes attractive, while when stock prices fall, clients are terrified of depreciation of savings and humbly return to the state system. When the bad situation in the markets gets longer, there is increasing political pressure to allow clients to return to social insurance, although otherwise they would not be allowed to do so. I'm still with Britain. The desire to make up for the second pillar or to remain faithful to social insurance depends on income, but also on gender. Of those who remain loyal to social insurance, 65 per cent are women and 70 per cent are people with lower income. Among people aged 45 to 54, 93 percent of men choose individual social security ties, while only 32 percent of women choose this option. This difference can be explained by the longer life expectancy of women, but also by less aversion to the risk among women than among men. The lack of financial education in a number of people creates room for abuse of the system by pension funds and insurance companies that attract clients to collect an account with their company. Accounts with private pension funds are more expensive than compulsory individual accounts. Clients are being sold products that are either inappropriate to them or too expensive. In October 2012, the pension law 2008 introduced new obligations for employers entered into force. Employers must automatically include employees in the pension scheme and pay compulsory pension contributions. The purpose of these reforms is to encourage people to save more money on their pensions, while employers have taken responsibility for securing them. The State's pension expenditure in Britain does not play the same role as in other countries, since the single basic benefits, along with the second state pension, represent only a small share of old-age reinsurance. Conversely, in funds and similar forms, citizens have a considerable amount of pension funds. The generosity of the state pension scheme decreases over time, although the second state pension is mainly more favourable for low-income groups. For pensioners with lower lifelong income, the compensation ratios of the average pension will be higher due to the redistribution within the system. The future compensation rates will be at least as high as they are today. The introduction of a second state pension and basic guaranteed benefit is particularly beneficial for low-income groups. On the contrary, the compensation for the Brit with average and higher income will be reduced. So I described the situation in Germany and the situation in the UK. Well, of course there's a lot of models. I thought the government officials were here to study it, but it's obvious that the only proposal made by the Fialův Government Five-calice on pensions here after a year and a quarter is that you want to rob a pensioner of the promised valorization, which is totally unacceptable. So, of course, the SPD is strongly protesting this, and we're doing everything we can to make sure your proposal doesn't pass here. There's only 20 out of 200 of us, but we're fighting to the max. So let's see what the model is like in Sweden. In 1998, Sweden approved legislation that changed the public pension system towards a fictitious contribution-defined system financed on the basis of an ongoing system. The second pillar of compulsory savings has been introduced into the funds. Pension reform has fundamentally changed the payment of public pension benefits. In the new system, benefits are closely linked to the contributions paid and the lifelong income of each individual. The pension system in Sweden has long had only two pillars, or three pillars. A public national pension system covering all citizens and an employee pension system based on collective bargaining between businesses and trade unions. The third pillar was private insurance or savings. Public pensions are the dominant source of income. They generate approximately three-quarters of the pensioners' income. The new public pension system has two components: the NDC and the FDC. All insurance payments are paid by the employer. The employer pays a total wage tax of 31,42 per cent, of which 10,21 per cent for old-age pensions. From this package, it will collect the appropriate percentage with a ceiling of 1.5 times the average wage, which it will transfer to individual NDC and FDC accounts. The NDC created individual accounts whose value represents a future claim. Revenue has been recorded since 1960. However, the accounts are fictional as they finance pensions for existing pensioners. Oh, yeah, that's the ongoing system. So they still work on the principle of pay as you go. The pension amount is then calculated as the balance ratio of the account and the expected life expectancy, which is averaged equally for men and women. In the NDC system, the pension age is flexible. Benefits may be obtained from 61 years of age. In short, you are entitled to a pension from the age of 61. The new system motivates people to work because it binds future benefits to lifelong incomes and thus contributions. Up to the ceiling, additional income is a source of higher future pension benefits. Adjustment of benefits in response to the average age of survival means that workers have to shift their retirement age if they want to achieve the same pension versus wage ratio as their parents. [[18.00 hours]] The important objective of the public pension system in Sweden has always been to achieve good care in the old age for all citizens. The Fialův government has exactly the opposite goal. You do not want to achieve good care in old age for all citizens. You're doing the opposite. You're suggesting, even in a legislative emergency, that's why I'm talking about it here, that you want to take out all pension recipients as quickly as possible, just rob them. They had a promised valorization, and you want to deprive them of the promised valorization. Take away an average of CZK 1,000 a month. And we don't agree with it, and we're defending it here with all our strength. The Fialův Government has thrown the pensioner overboard, but the SPD is firmly on the side of all the pension recipients. That's what this meeting is about. There. So the new pension system in Sweden therefore brings a basic guaranteed benefit that ensures a minimum standard of living for individuals with no or low income. This guaranteed dose is tested by the applicant's income and replaced by a pension from the NDC scheme. The minimum levy is financed from the general tax revenue of the State and is separated from the NDC scheme which is dependent on income. The benefit is paid from 65 years of age and represents approximately 35 percent of the average wages of blue collar workers. The guaranteed levy is invested according to prices and not wages as in the NDC system. It will therefore be taken by an ever smaller proportion of pensioners. Today about 30 percent of pensioners in Sweden receive a pension from this guaranteed income system, often women with low qualifications. The second pillar of the Swedish pension system today consists of compulsory savings into the FDC fund. Premium pension creates a relatively small proportion. Of the total pension contributions 18.5% goes to compulsory savings in funds, to individual accounts 2,5 percent. The new government agency for premium pension manages the system and functions as a settlement center. Contributions are collected by the employer and sent to the National Tax Office. Once individual pension rights are determined, participants can choose which funds to invest in. People can choose between private funds that they give individual savings to manage. The choice of the pension fund can be changed at any time. The contributions of participants are invested by a premium pension agency in large sums. Funds only know the total invested amounts and do not know who individual investors are. In 2000, when the FDC was launched, some 460 funds worked. Today they participate in the system of about 700. Most, about 70 percent of the funds, are equity funds, about half of the funds invest in foreign shares. Each member of a premium pension can choose five premium funds. Originally, people were active and created their own portfolio. Today, only about a fifth of clients really form a portfolio, others invest in the residual fund managed by the State Pension Corporation. The new Swedish pension system was introduced gradually. People born since 1954 will receive pensions entirely according to the new system. Elders receive a pension combined according to the new system and according to the original system. Only in 2040 will the whole system go according to new rules. Back in 2015, when they retire from the postwar generation born of a baby boom, benefits will be paid according to the old system. The pension scheme provides for an insurance-technical interest rate of 1,6%. The fund system that has been operating since 2000 brought the same revenues for clients as in the NDC, however significantly lower than in the basic private pension systems. The value of the selected portfolio decreased by 40 per cent over three years of operation and the value of the predetermined fund by 30 per cent. The recent financial crisis has deepened this inconvenience. The pre-reform system was unfair. The link between contributions and benefits was weak. The contributions were paid from all income from 16 to retirement, while the benefits were based on 15 years with the highest income. This has redistributed from long career and balanced income, usually people with lower incomes, people with short careers and significant growth at the end of their careers, people with higher incomes. The new system creates a close link between paid contributions and pension benefits, not only in the FDC system but also in the NDC system. The new Swedish system therefore strengthens the principle of equivalence at the expense of the principle of solidarity. However, the principle of solidarity is maintained in the system because the citizen is entitled to the guaranteed benefit. It is paid not from the NDC system, but from the chapter of social benefits. The NDC and FDC systems assume that the individual's decision to work or retire will determine the amount of individual rents. Individuals can diversify their pension portfolios, invest their funds in the capital market. The new system shifts the risk and responsibility of the citizen. The extent to which systems form a solid pension depends on the participant's ability to make rational investment decisions. Since the premium pension based on the FDC is only less important in the system, Swedish pensions are not so dependent on fluctuations in the capital market. Despite the intentions of a large number of funds that are ahead of advertising campaigns, it has rather a deterrent effect on citizens. For many participants, the residual fund will be a better alternative than an active investment strategy. So far, the residual fund has a better yield than the average market. The settlement center has so far proved successful in reducing the cost of the FDC system. The administrative costs for the Premium Pensions Agency are only 0,3 per cent of the assets. Management of assets associated with large amounts of funds creates economies of scale. Most private funds in the system are more expensive than the residual fund and funds managed by institutional investors. The marketing costs of the FDC will reduce the pension paid by one tenth in the future. Since benefits are not defined and depend on contributions, the expected average pension - wage ratios cannot now be accurately foreseen. Therefore, the idea that incoming Swedish pensioners would enjoy higher relative pensions than their parents would not be realistic. The total compensation ratio of the average pension - wages will be lower for future pensioners than before. This is because the number of pensioners is increasing and the average life expectancy is also increasing. The advantage of the new Swedish system is that it places greater responsibility on individuals when preparing for retirement. However, this is not a full privatisation, but a partial, rather modest privatisation. [[18.10 hours]] The system isn't perfect. Moreover, he cannot predict future pension benefits. Although the system was created as financially stable, it does not address the problems of ageing the population. This is what the reserve pension fund serves for. So we've already discussed the model in Sweden, the UK and Germany. Now let's take a look, let's go see France. Let's go see France. France is one of the countries with the Bismarck pension scheme. The French model is based on the point of normal funding, where contributions are paid to the scheme by both employees and employers, and pension benefits depend on the amount of income. The compulsory social insurance system was established in France in 1945. Since then, social insurance includes health, pension and family assistance insurance with children. Social insurance now covers about four fifths of the population, all employees and pensioners. Other people may, on the one hand, be persons with no salary, artists, traders, free professions, employees, sorry, farmers, and persons with a special salary, especially in the public administration, and persons with a salary in the private sector. The payment of benefits and the collection of contributions is organised in France by a central social security organisation. Today, some 60 million people live in France, half of which are active. By the way, 12 percent of the economically active are unemployed. There are about 12 million pensioners in the country. In 2000, pensions accounted for around 12.1 percent of GDP, with 15 percent of GDP expected in 2030. The vast majority of pension benefits are spent within the national interim system or the system that is continuously funded, and in France this trend is even stronger than elsewhere in the EU. The first pillar of the French pension scheme is continuously funded. Pensions depend on earnings. It includes most employees, students and people receiving social benefits. In addition to old age and widowhood or widowhood, sickness, maternity, disability, death, accidents and occupational diseases are covered. It guarantees citizens a basic minimum income. Otherwise, the standard pension is derived from income. Pension contributions, i.e. retirement and death allowances, pardons, pension contributions, parentheses of retirement and death, in the first pillar the employee pays 6,75 per cent and employer 8,4 per cent up to the salary ceiling of EUR 3 086 per month. The contributions are tax-deductible. There is no compulsory retirement age in France. It leaves between 60 and 65 years old. The minimum retirement age is 62 years for persons born after 1955 and 65 years for persons born before 1951. For people born after January 1955, the age for entitlement to full pension, minimum age plus five years, is the age for entitlement to full pension 67 years. People who retire early, for example due to disability, or because they have worked in an unhealthy or physically stressful working environment, the pension is reduced. People who raised at least three children have a slightly higher pension. When fulfilling the compulsory insurance period of 42,5 years, older French citizens can retire from 60 years of age. This needs to be stressed. This needs to be stressed. If the citizen does not fulfil the minimum period of insurance, the pension shall be reduced. On the contrary, when a citizen exceeds the insurance period, the prescribed dose is no longer increased. French state pensions depend on the employee's income for the best 25 years. The net pension versus wage ratio now reaches around 79 percent in the private sector. Well, look how high it is. And here the Minister of Finance and Vice-President of ODS Stanjura is arguing some ratio that is much lower than in developed countries, and he's saying how much pensioners are getting money. That's unbelievable, those antisocial statements! The pensions are valued by prices and not by wages. The second pillar of the French pension scheme consists of compulsory schemes based on beneficially defined accounts. Supplementary pensions are compulsory for all employees who take pension insurance to the first pillar. For private sector employees, ARRCO organises supplementary pensions. AGIRC covers management and executive staff. Furthermore, there are specific schemes for farmers and self-employed persons. The calculation of supplementary old-age pensions is based on scoring. Each year, which the taxpayer contributed to the system according to his salary, he presents himself on the points on which the supplementary pension is based. In the second pillar, pensions account for income for the entire insurance period, not just for the 25 best years. The contributions to ARRCO, written by ARRCO, are 3 % for employees and 4,5 % for employers up to the limit of the ceiling I have already mentioned, that is 3 086 euros per month. For people with income between EUR 3 086 and EUR 9 258 per month, the rates are 8 per cent for employees and 12 per cent for employers. The third pillar of the French pension system is voluntary supplementary pension insurance for French citizens. There are hundreds of schematics in France. Banks, insurance companies and pension funds come with their own commercial products. While in the first pillar about 65 percent of pension benefits are paid, in the second pillar 5% of pension benefits, in the third pillar 30% of pension benefits. The measures provided for in the 2010 pension reform allowed retirement in the 60's under very strict conditions for those who started working before the age of 18 and paid contributions for a period fixed for their age group increased by two years. The reform included a shift until 2018 of a minimum retirement age to 62 years. François Hollande made a commitment in his presidential campaign to reinstate the possibility of retirement at the age of 60 for those who started working early and contributed long enough to pension insurance. The regulation entered into force in November 2012. Well, let's see. In France, since 2012, the possibility of retirement at the age of 60, and the Pural government has proposed an increase in retirement from 65 to 68, which is the highest retirement age in Europe. Well, crazy just. Of course, the SPD fundamentally disagrees with this, and I will repeat the age of retirement to be sure. Well, the French President is discussing global reform with the social partners, which would lead to the long-term maintenance of an ongoing pension system. The French system confirms that the more generous public pension schemes, in quotation marks, are suppressing private savings. This is not surprising because public pension schemes financed by taxes reduce the net income of citizens after taxation, thereby reducing private aggregate savings. The effect of public pensions on private savings is likely to be strengthened when entitlement to a pension is derived from income or property. [[18.20 hours]] Let's take a closer look. That means let's go to Slovakia. Slovakia is one of the European countries that implemented the partial privatisation of the pension system according to the recommendations of the World Bank. Like Hungary or Poland, it has carried out a radical reform of its pension system, which has introduced a well-defined mandatory old-age pension saving system, rebuilt the ongoing system and strengthened the importance of voluntary pension schemes. Slovakia has created a system of three pillars for financing pensions. The first pillar is the ongoing national pillar, which is the social insurance undertaking, to which the employer pays the wage contributions for workers. An old-age pension is set at 18 per cent of the gross wage. The second pillar was established in 2005 and represents savings with pension management companies. Supplementary pension schemes are the third voluntary pillar. The first pillar is mandatory, continuously funded, with adequate solidarity. The first pillar covers all active-age citizens and their employers who are obliged to send pension contributions to the social insurance undertaking. The selected contributions are used by the State to pay the pensions of current pensioners, so the system works on the principle of PAYG. The amount of the maximum pension is limited to the maximum basis for premium payments. In the first pillar, there is a gradual increase in the retirement age of 60 for both men and women. There will be a stronger link between pensions and contributions. Doses are indexed according to inflation and wages. There is a possibility of later retirement, which will be affected by a reduction of 0.5 per cent for each month before the standard retirement age, and vice versa, the later retirement is favoured by a bonus of 0.5 per cent per month. The second pillar is the compulsory capitalization pillar of pension savings. It shall be introduced from 1 January 2005. The system is defined by contribution. It is to be attended by all citizens of active age, so that half of the contributions that have been paid to the social insurance company so far will be paid into their pension account. In Slovakia, 30% of the funds invested in personal pension accounts are to be invested. The transition to the new system was not easy. People were divided into two groups. The first group are citizens who were 16 years and fewer when the reform was introduced. They entered the second pillar at the time of taking up their first job. They then paid 9 per cent of the gross wages to the social insurance undertaking and 9 per cent to the pension fund. People over 16 years of age could decide whether they wanted to enter the pension pillar or not. Within a certain time, the people who joined the second pillar were allowed to rejoin it and rejoin the first pillar. The third pillar of the Slovak pension system is voluntary. Each citizen may contribute from his income to supplementary pension savings at his own discretion. The products have been modernised, making room for retirement and other forms - through life insurance, savings in banks, mutual funds, etc. The contribution to the third pillar favours the State tax. The trust of the Slovák in the new system is illustrated by a large number of taxpayers who volunteered to enter the second pillar. In the first half of 2008, 1.5 million people saved to the second pillar. The Ministry of Labour has not recommended entry into the new system to people who have been retired for less than 10 years, because the minimum saving period is just 10 years. The recommended period is at least 18 to 20 years, when entry into the second pillar should become advantageous. The pension management company may invest the money in the account only through the client of the selected pension fund. Pension management companies have created three pension funds, growth, balanced and conservative to secure the capital component of the pension system. In the event of a company's bankruptcy, pension funds are separated from the company's assets, so the fund itself would be transferred to another administrator. Money in the pension account is partly subject to inheritance. At death during the active life of the survivors, they receive a survivor's pension from the first pillar and inherit the pension fund's balance. However, if someone dies at retirement age, the savings on the pension account will fall to the pension management company. The survivors may only apply for a survivor's fund from the first pillar. So the biggest problem here, according to the author, is the large differences between old and new pensioners' pensions. The greatest threats to the system are high administrative costs of managing individual accounts, which often exceed the low returns of invested funds. When administrative costs and inflation rates are deducted from nominal returns, often the client gets negative. Whether or not someone's pension savings are paid is mainly due to the estimated saving time. This is a period when a citizen is employed and regularly contributes to a personal pension account. Experience has shown that pension management companies may also report real impairments, i.e. below inflation, compared to the initial assumptions of the regular assessment of pension savings. Pension reform in Slovakia substantially strengthened the principle of equivalence and weakened the principle of solidarity. Not only pensions on individual accounts, but also pensions in the ongoing system depend on contributions to the system. Therefore, the scope of redistribution will be reduced. It goes from applying an unjustifiedly high degree of solidarity to highlighting merit and strengthening individual responsibility for the post-retirement situation. In calculating pensions, the former Slovak pension system only took into account the five best-paid years of the last ten before the pension. This put the above groups at a disadvantage and favoured the low-income groups. Now not only the second pillar pension paid by lifelong contributions, but also the first pillar pension is calculated on the basis of paid premiums for a longer period of time. After the start of Prime Minister Robert Fic Slovakia made significant changes in the pension system. So far, Slovakia has been facing a second pillar of 9 per cent gross wages, with upcoming changes ending 3 to 4 per cent in private accounts, the rest going back to the social insurance company. Slovakia thus partially returned to the proven first pillar and weakened the second pillar of the pension system. [[18.30 hours]] Although the main objective of Slovak, but also of Hungarian and Polish pension reform was to ensure the long-term financial sustainability of the pension system, the problems are the resulting deficits during the transitional period. The transfer of part of social security to private pension funds was not free of charge. On the other hand, the Czech Republic has chosen a more modest approach to pension reform, which minimises budgetary costs over a longer period of time. Summary. So here I have outlined models of pension reform just as an example in several countries. So we were talking about Germany here, we were talking about France, we were talking about the UK, we were talking about Sweden and we were talking about Slovakia as an example. There could be a lot of examples here. So, in summary, we have recently seen a shift in European pension systems to strengthen the principle of equivalence. Also, countries support the development of the second and third pillars of pension security, because pensions from the first state pillar, given the demographic situation of future pensioners, will not be enough. Well, let's also say here, once again, I would point out that in Germany, pensioners, as said here, have 70 percent of the net income. So, of course, this is the level that - then also German pensioners are rich, because the state just works in some way, unlike here, the Fialův government, which leads from ten to five, or even zero. Honestly, when we see it, it goes straight to the minus. So while some countries are betting on compulsory savings - Slovakia, Hungary, Poland, Sweden - other countries leave savings on pension accounts on individual decisions - Britain, Germany, France, but also the Czech Republic. Recently, the popular transition to fictional virtual accounts - NDC. Although this principle leads to a significant strengthening of the principle of equivalence, the basic problem of the deficit is unable to address. Sweden will address the demographic problem by means of a buffer fund. However, not all countries are rich enough to subsidize the state pension system from other budget revenues. Germany has not made a move towards the NDC, but important steps have been taken in this direction. At the turn of the millennium, pension reform did not change the system, yet it represented a significant shift because it strengthened the importance of employee and private pension plans that have so far played a marginal role. In international comparison, Britain is out of line with low state pensions and greater roles in employee and personal pension plans. Although the principle of equivalence in European pension systems is being strengthened, the principle of solidarity is not completely abandoned. State pensions still work to redistribute money from the richer, even though the rate of redistribution has decreased slightly in recent years. Providing in old age becomes more of a private concern than it was in the past. The state pension rather plays the role of a social safety net. Now let's see what the situation is like here in the Czech Republic. State pensions for everyone. In a historical context - sorry, I skipped a bit here. So the Czech pension system was long two-pillared, the first pillar being the state ongoing system, the second pillar of voluntary supplementary pension insurance with a state contribution. After many years of debate, the previous governments decided to introduce the third pillar of private savings into funds. Expectations are created around pension reform, which cannot be fulfilled with the best of will. Of course, it depends on how it's handled. But the expectations that the SPD has about it are quite clear. We want dignified, adequate, pensions for all pension recipients. We have filed a bill here, which we want to impose a minimum dignified pension on the minimum wage limit for all citizens who have fulfilled a legal claim, that is, the years worked, the period of insurance worked, or disability. But there is no way we want the so-called inadaptables to be entitled to a pension. On the contrary, they are supported by Fialův's five-calice government. Of course, there's already a contradiction. So we proposed the bill, of course, the minimum decent pension of minimum wage and the basic amount of credit. Because you can't live on 10-12,000 for those pensions. This is a model, as you have heard - and I have not said by far all countries here - that the minimum basic decent pension is at minimum wage level. Such models work in a number of developed countries, that people work for a lifetime, and then not live in poverty. When German Chancellor Otto von Bismarck founded state pensions in 1899 it was relatively cheap. At the time, there were 10 workers for one pensioner. People retired at the age of 70, but half of the people died until they were 45. Of course, that's a thing, I'm just saying, I'm not suggesting that here, but I'm just saying, what was the status of 1899? That's not what the SPD is suggesting. I'm just commenting on the history of how and what happened back then. So the lucky ones who lived to live could only enjoy it for one year on average. The current system has changed significantly since Bismarckův. He's much more generous and generous. So here I've been discussing what's been going on here basically over the last few years around pensions. Again, I would like to stress that it certainly does not copy, it does not copy, it does not copy, the SPD opinions. All I want to do is summorize what's been going on around pensions in the last few years. I'm going to think about the post-2010 period so that it's fairly up-to-date. The Czech pension system has so far been composed of two pillars. The first represents compulsory, state-organised and managed on-going pension insurance. The second pillar fulfils the voluntary private supplementary pension scheme with a state contribution. In the 1990s, the World Bank pushed to manage three pillars of the pension system. In this sense, fundamental changes began to take place after 2010. Of course, in January 2010, finance and labour and social affairs ministers were founded by the advisory expert body for pension reform, the so-called PES, with the intention of updating the projection of the development of the state pension system, which had previously been developed by the first Bezděkův Commission of 2004, 2005. At this point, the projection concluded that the current system is long-term unsustainable in today's form and parameters and will result in a deficit of around 4% of GDP per year, with the need to continue with parametric adjustments. Well, there's a very different view here, of course. Because the Fialův Government thinks so, and Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jurečka, Chairman of the KDU-ČSL, that you will rob all pensioners of the promised valorization. So you lower people's pensions. [[18.40 hours]] At the same time, because of your government, there is record inflation, record energy prices, so basically you're throwing nearly 3 million people into poverty. But what we're saying is that we need to encourage working families, couples not to be afraid to have a second or third child to start the demographic curve. Today, the situation is that young couples, young families are afraid to have a second or third child because they are simply afraid that they will not support it. Well, to be honest, I know single mothers today, and that's basically a heroic task today. Heroic task, because the state is not helping. You'd rather take migrants from Ukraine, and you're bragging about it, which I'm quoting here, that's an incredible quote from the Fialův government, and I'd like to repeat what the Fialův government's view of pension reform is. In an interview for the List, I saw it the Petr Janský yesterday - I quote: "Immigration, i.e. more people from abroad, allows us to avoid a difficult choice when we either have to raise taxes or lower pensions." Well, that's awful how the Fialův government sees pension reform! That means, not that... SPD says: Support our families with children, support Czech families with children or Czech couples young or, of course, motivate Czech working families, working young people not to be afraid to have a second and third child. That's the model, the correct model from the SPD's point of view. So these kids grow up, they become adults, and then, of course, they're gonna work and they're gonna go into the system. We need to start a demographic curve. But Petr Fiala's government doesn't want to do this, and the Fialův Government's advisor, Petr Janský, openly says that your policy is immigration. Immigration, more people from abroad. That's crazy! That's crazy what the Fialův government is doing! So that's completely unacceptable to us. So for you, if I sum up, immigration, more people from abroad, that allows you, your government, to avoid a difficult choice, or that's what Fialův's government advisor says. But you are not only - there is still one lie, because the sentence is: Immigration, i.e. more people from abroad, allows us to avoid a difficult choice, when we either have to raise taxes or lower pensions, says the counsellor of the Fialův Government, Petr Janský. But he says either or. So immigration, yes, definitely. And then it gives either-or between raising taxes and reducing pensions. But you do everything at once. So you're doing it worse than your counselor. That's unacceptable, what he's saying to me. So you have also immigration, i.e. more people from abroad, so you have carried out the Ukrainianization of Czech society, people have had enough. It's your government's fault. It's behind any edge. People don't feel like they're in the Czech Republic anymore, or the doctor, or the shopping centers, a lot of people tell me that. But you also want to raise taxes and at the same time lower pensions. This is unbelievable! That's crazy what you guys are doing! You see, now that I've read it in context, it's even worse, what your government is doing than what your advisor says. That's awful, too, but you're even driving it all at once. Well, that's really crazy. So this is your view of pension reform: to take more economic migrants from different and God knows where else, at the same time to increase people's pensions, the Čech, and to reduce pensions for Czech citizens. [[taxes]] Well, that's the vertex, we, like in the SPD, absolutely reject it, this. We absolutely refuse. And I say, the SPD suggests, but unfortunately, we are an opposition party, so now we can appeal only to the government, but with you, it's like throwing games on a wall, we say to encourage Czech working families not to be afraid to have at least two or three children. This is a prerequisite for successful pension reform. Of course, this will manifest itself in the medium term. But in the short run, we've been saying that for a long time, there's a need to cut off all the unnecessary expenses. I've said that many times here, and I won't say it again. I said so at the beginning of my speech. I've named at least ten of our designs, where we'll get the money in hundreds of billions. But you don't want to do that. So the Czech Republic is really going downhill with the Fialův Government. And basically, we're getting closer to the Greek scenario with regard to debt. The problem is, you're going to be a flood. So let's take a closer look at the situation. Well, of course, here we can agree that the working and expert group has come to a clear conclusion, but that is not genius, we all know that the Czech pension system requires a reform that will lead to its budgetary sustainability and a fairer distribution of the intergenerational burden. But that's what everyone else imagines, too. I already mentioned that today that Prime Minister Fiala said that in that you wanted to rob Czech pensioners of the promised valorization, that he saw intergenerational solidarity. Well, I don't know if he speaks Czech or what he's doing. After all, intergenerational solidarity in the administration of a five-calice is to reduce people's pensions. Well, then we absolutely have to refuse. So you interpret these words completely in your own way, because I think intergenerational solidarity is that people get decent pensions, and I see the sustainability of the system. And I've already said the solutions here. You're really going to completely reverse the meanings of those words. And that's like really crazy. This is like when Prime Minister Petr Fiala said in November on television that you would not raise taxes, and three months after that, all government officials talk about raising taxes for Czech citizens. The man can't even see his mouth anymore because he's already tangled in his lies all day and night, Prime Minister Fiala. Now, of course, the expert and advisory board on pension reform, the PES... [[Laughs in the right side of the meeting room.]] Can I ask for peace of mind, please, so I'm not disturbed for nothing?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u245	It's okay. It's okay. It's okay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u246	I know that - you know, we're talking about reducing pensions for all pensioners, and government MPs are laughing. Well, that's just sad, but unfortunately it is. And we do not agree with this, of course, with this approach of government Members. So now we're going to move on to the fact that the PES pointed out that the key prerequisite for successful pension reform would be to find a socio-political consensus on its form and then stability of the chosen solution and its parameters over time. Well, there's no objection to that conclusion. But again, I'm saying it's about the content. On the other hand, it is remarkable that the PES was founded under the ODS and TOP 09 together with the Public Affairs that are no longer there, and the advisory group itself, 13 years ago, clearly states that the key prerequisite for successful pension reform will be to find a socio-political consensus over its form. But the Fialův government doesn't consult the opposition. You don't consult with the SPD. Well, was that short call from Minister Jurečka to our chairman of the Radim Fial MP's club considered a consultation? [[President Schiller from the place: Me too.]] Yes, President Schillerová, there was also a short phone call apparently. But perhaps the Minister does not mean that, because in the media I read, immediately I called Radim, in the media I read that the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs will discuss it with us, with the opposition, Marian Jurečka. That it would be an online meeting, it was written. So I immediately called Radim and told him there was going to be a meeting. And then when I asked Radim what the meeting was like, it was a short phone call from the minister. [[18.50 hours]] You don't give a shit, Minister. You don't give a shit! Your pension consultation is your short call. That's crazy! That's crazy! You laugh at it in the face, all of it. You're not even able to come to a normal meeting. You're not even able to take the time to negotiate and sit at that table with the opposition, so that it has some form at all, to give it some political seriousness, to show somehow a little bit that you care about the consensus. No. You have time for a short phone call. That's all. Nothing ever woke up because there wasn't even room to discuss anything, to discuss anything. This is how the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Chairman of the KDU-ČSL Marian Jurečka, approaches it. We want to discuss it. We want to sit down. But the problem is, if there is no draft pension reform on your part, there is obviously nothing to act on. But even what you wanted to discuss, you took the time to make a short phone call to our chairman of the MP's club. And now I've heard that it was also basically the same form against the chairman of the ANO MP's club. You just fucked it up completely. I don't think you have time. You don't have time. Nearly 3 million retired people are being dealt with here, and you don't have time. All right. I don't agree with that kind of communication. Then somewhere it was said that it was discussed with the opposition. Well, this form? Are you kidding me? I just pointed out that we now have the ODS government, the TOP 09, and you're not even following this. And even in the media, I hear it - pension reform, you say, there's a need for all the political parties here in the House to agree. But you're not capable of anything. Then I hear the opposition doesn't want to act. We? Take a look. We want to act. And see what form you're acting in? That's not a negotiation at all. It's just... We're not a rag on a stick. So, once again, we call on the government to act. But it would also be good not only to act, but also to accept opposition proposals, because you see for yourself that you are toothless completely. So you just need to listen to each other a little bit, too. The other thing is that at the time, the basic version of the pension system projection that Bezděkův's committee came up with, and I'm not saying that I agree with it, I'm just stating the facts, I'm not saying that it's copying some SPD proposals, so the basic version of the pension system projection was based on several assumptions. The legislation shall remain fixed in the current state on 1 January 2010. The retirement age would increase according to the 2008 amendment. This is the goal of achieving the retirement age of 65 for both men and women with one child. The valuation of pensions would take place at the level of the legal minimum, inflation plus a third of the growth of the average real wage. So you're breaking it yourself, because you don't even want the legal minimum even. That's why I'm standing here today because I want to stop you from robbing senior citizens. The parameters of the pension formula would be indexed according to the average wage. Under these assumptions, the ongoing system, without further changes, would have fallen after 2035 from annual deficits at GDP percentage level to 4 per cent of GDP after 2050. Bezděkův's commission considers the weaknesses of the ongoing system that promises to future pensioners are not sufficiently covered by resources, which is said to bring uncertainty and risks to both citizens and the state. The Commission considers the reduction of the risk of poverty for pensioners, traditions and public confidence to be the strengths of the ongoing pension system, parametric adjustments to ensure long-term sustainability. That's the pluses. The SPD promotes the maintenance of an ongoing pension system. Of course, we disagree. And here it is fully apparent that the pension commission was essentially directed by Mr Kalousek of the TOP 09 and then Prime Minister Nečas of the ODS, that he proposed to increase the retirement age. I think there are reserves, and we talked about it, and we specifically made those proposals. I think there are enough reserves not to increase the retirement age. After all, look in France. Look in other countries. It's working out there. You want to raise to 68 years. In principle, the SPD disagrees. And that would be the highest retirement in Europe. That's where it works. How come it works elsewhere and it doesn't work here? Well, the reason, of course, is the Fialův government. It's obvious. I mean, it's pretty clear in that international comparison. That is not the reason for Ukraine. The reason is your policy. Of course, back then, the working group agreed that it would be desirable to create a second fund pillar. That's, of course... I've already talked about this. In Mr Kalousek's submission, it has really aroused completely unacceptable question marks. I'm glad we canceled Mr. Kalousek's proposals. What I would like to say is that the Constitutional Court found out about pensions. Pension reform in the Czech Republic after 2010 significantly influenced the Constitutional Court's decision on the right to adequate material security of 23 March 2010. And that was the case, and I'm sure many of you remember it, that was the case where he complained about the former judge to whom he was awarded as 1. 2. 2006 full invalidity pension of CZK 13 346, on the fact that the total amount of the pension granted is only 19 per cent of its previous income, which is not considered adequate material security. And the provisions of Section 15 on the reduction limits of the Pension Insurance Act according to the complainant cannot stand and are unconstitutional, since this provision is damaged by higher-income insured persons. The complainant recalled that according to the name of the Pension Insurance Act, it is insurance, i.e. a legal institute which has its fixed content in each legal state. In his view, the insurance paid should be treated as insurance, not as tax. By applying the second reduction limit in particular, there is a substantial reduction in the calculation base, without the clear reasoning of the legislator on the legitimate objective and meaning of such legislation. The subject matter of the review of the Constitutional Court was whether the ratio between the amount of pension insurance premiums and the amount of pensions for existing legislation meets the constitutional requirement of the so-called proportionality of material security for old age and does not give rise to the alleged inequality of pension insurance participants. The Constitutional Court acknowledges that there is no prerequisite for a direct link between the amount of insurance paid and the amount of benefits received in the future. Even in the interim system, the equivalence rate of the granted benefit and the previous income may be higher and lower at the time of economic activity. The Constitutional Court does not in any way call into question the principle of intergenerational solidarity in relation to the pension system, since it is built on it as a system continuously funded. [[19.00 hours]] However, the subject of the assessment must be solidarity of the intra-generational income, reflecting the uniform percentage rate of premiums paid by the economically active population. Therefore, high-income population groups are taking significantly higher amounts of money than low-income groups into the pension benefit scheme each year, notes the Constitutional Court. In line with the differences in commercial and public insurance, for which it is not possible to rely on the principle of net merit, the amount of the benefits fully reflects the amount of the premiums, according to the Constitutional Court, the ratio between the amount of premiums paid and the amount of pension granted must reflect a certain degree of proportionality for individual participants in order to comply with the constitutionally conformal requirements of Art. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1 Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. The system has long been able to guarantee a satisfactory compensation ratio for individuals with income moving around the average wage, and favours those with wage below average, which is understood as a justified advantage. It can do so only at the cost of reducing the individual compensation ratio for persons with a double or multiple average wage. The system also guarantees them from a general point of view a dose that represents a certain minimum for dignified survival in old age. However, it is a benefit which cannot guarantee the maintenance of the standard of living usual for these persons from the period of economic activity, argues the Constitutional Court. Well, let's take a look at this, just to be clear, at the Constitutional Court's verdict. Let's see what the Constitutional Court verdict is. Pension versus wage ratio at different levels of wages. So old-age pension. So if someone had an average wage of 0.7, essentially 70 percent of the average wage, the old-age pension, according to the Constitutional Court's ruling, would have been in 2007, when I had the last number, because it was decided in 2010, this judgment would have the average old-age pension... No, no, watch out, it's not the Constitutional Court's judgment, but how it was set. And that's what the lawsuit was all about. On the contrary, the Constitutional Court said that it should be the satisfactory compensation ratio for individuals with income, no, not that it should be the adequacy, that it should reflect the degree of proportionality. So the situation was so in 2007, that who had an average of 0.7 percent of the average wage, the pension was 55.2% of the average wage in the final. Whoever had exactly the average wage worked so well when he received a pension that he received 44 percent of his salary as a pension in 2007. Well, it's dropping quite a bit. Because who had an average of 1.5 times the average wage, in 2007 it came as a pension of 32 percent of the salary he received that he had the pension ratio. If it was double the average wage, 25.5%, if it were 2.5 times that pension, it was only 21.6 percent. Then the lawsuit was that whoever had three times the average wage was a judge, so it was exactly 19 percent. So, essentially, the situation is that the general system guarantees a dose that represents a certain minimum for decent survival in old age, but it is a benefit that cannot guarantee the maintenance of the standard of living usual for these people from the time of economic activity. As there is a reduction limit for calculating the pension, the ratio of the amount of the pension to that earnings decreases with increasing earnings. Well, we know that. So, while revenue entered the first reduction threshold of 100 per cent, revenues between the first and the second reduction limit entered the assessment base of 30 per cent and revenues above the second reduction threshold entered the assessment base of only 10 per cent. So, when I return to the Constitutional Court's finding of the pensions in relation to this particular case, the Constitutional Court stated that the legislation implemented by the contested provision of Section 15 of Law No. 155/1995 Coll. creates a situation where a participant in a pension scheme contributing a three-fold amount to a participant contributing an amount calculated from the average wage is granted a pension of relatively less than half the amount. Legal regulation in order to ensure adequate material security for all members of pension insurance does not provide parts of insured persons with adequate material security reflecting the principle of merit, i.e. fulfilling the stimulating function of social policy. It is, by the way, the founding of the Constitutional Court 8/07 p. 17. Thus, the Constitutional Court concluded that the construction referred to in Section 15 of the Pension Insurance Act, which provides for two reduction limits at the same time as the absence of a ceiling, creates a significant proportion between the amount of the contribution to the insurance system, the amount of income and the amount of pension benefits granted in respect of a part of the insured persons, thereby violating the provisions of Articles 1 and 3 paragraph of the Charter (?). [[added]] This is the point now that the Constitutional Court has complied with the complainant and Section 15 of Law No. 150/1990 Coll. about pension insurance, canceled. In view of the complexity of the legislative regulation, the Constitutional Court postponed the enforceability of its decision until 30 September 2011. And now it's good to see, and here we are, and I think that's an extremely interesting comparison that Minister Stanjura here doesn't want to hear... [[Minister Stanjura sitting in his desk says he can hear you.]] It's my explanation that you don't want to hear. I haven't said the explanation yet. But let's talk to the microphone in accordance with the rules of procedure. [[Minister Stanjura off the mic: Don't talk like that.]] No, I can talk to you, Minister, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. So don't tell me something I'm not supposed to do, you do it. [[Minister Stanjura off the microphone: So don't turn around.]] I can turn to you, yeah. Because I speak to the microphone in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Do not ask the President to intervene against you because the Member is supposed to speak on a microphone. [[Laughter from the right.]] He's supposed to be talking to a microphone. And the only one who talks to the microphone is me. And you can sign up for a possible response here in the debate, and you will be x in the order of priority right. So maybe it'll happen to you at midnight or something. So now I have the advantage of even addressing you without the Presidency because you are a minister. [[19.10 hours]] So, yeah... [[Towards a group of Members near the speaker's counter.]] And the minister? Well, I'm glad. [[Please, let's not really discuss outside the microphone.]] Exactly, let's not talk off the microphone, okay? And I have that right here. [[Laughs in the hall.]] So... Well, it's an advantage right now. [[Cheer up in the hall.]] That's why I can address you and you can't address me, right? So it's here now... [[Members are laughing.]] But I was gonna say... no, no. I just wanted to make sure that I was that way -- now I may have crossed half my speech, so time is. But let's go to the retirement versus wage ratio, international comparison. And that's what the Minister should hear. Because you, Minister, were just arguing with some completely misguided argument of the wage versus pension ratio. But I'll tell you what the ratio is in developed countries. So you want to drag us to developing countries, and I want to drag the Czech Republic where there are dignified pensions. Finland, for example. Well, Finland is getting an average pension ratio here -- pay, if I go through here, that pension versus wage is about 80 percent, Mr. Minister. So compared to the average net income, Minister Stanjur, so next time you say it, you compare it to those countries where it's dignified security, not some, I don't know where you got it, yours... Probably here somewhere in developing countries or some countries where the SPD certainly doesn't want to go. But here, for example, Finland, who had wages - even who had wages at 0.5, that is, half the average wage in Finland, then has a pension of 90.7 percent of that salary. But the truth is that whoever had the average wage at 0,75 percent average, that means he had three quarters, or even he was on average one, so it's about 80 percent. So let's give the right examples, please, Minister, Jo? We want people to have decent pensions, and you argue by defending that you want to rob people about pensions, that you want to cut them down. That's a completely misguided argument. But let's not just talk about Finland. You can argue that there are higher taxes. Then let's go to Italy. Italy, there is actually the same thing in pale blue, even higher, I see, there is an average of 89 percent, 88 percent. On average, it's here, as I see it, between 88 and 89 percent of the average wage then people get the pensions relative to the wage. Well, it's high, but let's make the right argument. Even in Croatia, it's 65 percent, but I wouldn't exactly argue with Chorvatsko right now, for various reasons, of course. So here you can see Italy and Finland, what the conditions are. So, Minister Stanjur, the worst countries, we do not want to approach the worst countries, but we want to bring the Czech Republic closer to the best countries in the given parameters, in the given areas. So that's how it is. That's how it is. So please, let's give the right examples, and let's not say the right ones to you, and that's still not good for the citizens. You're giving the wrong examples where you want to go. This just can't affect us, we have numbers here as it is. And here, of course, the government did not agree with the Constitutional Court's argument, of course. She didn't agree. So of course here, I have written here, which I understand, because when there was an antisocial non-time ODS government with the TOP 09, I understand that they didn't like people getting dignified pensions, but I have a different opinion for the SPD, I think people should have dignified pensions. So here I see that it is difficult to accept the argument of the Constitutional Court, they say. And so on and so forth. So that's here, some conclusions, even as political conclusions. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, which participated in the proceedings before the Constitutional Court, rightly stressed the difference between social and private insurance. Social insurance is based on the law, while contractual insurance is based on a contractual principle. Social insurance is compulsory under the conditions laid down by law, while commercial insurance is voluntary. The social security performance is determined by parametric law, whereas commercial insurance premiums are determined in an individual insurance contract or at least result from it. Well, those are the conclusions we all seem to know. Now, the pension versus wage ratio depends on different factors in each country. Of course, but it also depends on the political assignment, but those are the factors that are the priority. Ukraine is a priority for the Fialův Government and you have thrown Czech citizens overboard. A Czech citizen is a priority for us in the SPD. That's the basic difference, these are, of course, the different factors that are in the government. You have one, we have another. [[unintelligible]] And it is, of course, the balance of income and expenditure of the pension system, pension insurance rates, here they write, the overall rate of tax and levy burden on residents, employers, the scope of support for supplementary pension systems, the historical development of the pension system, the extent of pension insured persons and the range of pension insurance taxpayers. Well, I think it's pretty narrow here, because I think it's also possible to restructure the budget overall so that the government gives priority to the sustainability of the system. It's kind of narrowed down here, so with these parameters, with these guys they're naming, it's kind of like that, it's kind of narrowed down, that look. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs then argued that in the Czech Republic the existing structure of the amount of pensions and the compensation ratio correspond to the socio-economic and political reality and is not an expression of the clear will of the legislator. Well, that's alibi, because there's a government here, you have a majority, so of course you can do it as legislators in the House, you should have done that by now, restructuring the budget, maybe changing some of the mandatorial expenses, because we've been telling you all along. And the most interesting thing is that before the election, some of you were talking about it, and suddenly, after the election, the deed ran away. So that's the problem. The judge of the Constitutional Court, Jan Musil, published a remarkably different opinion on a finding that is useful to study. According to him, the content of the State's obligation is to ensure a minimum social standard for rights subjects, but not an adequate standard of living in accordance with their requirements, as these entities are sometimes mistakenly perceived and required. The intervention of the Constitutional Court in similar matters could only be taken into consideration in the case of flagrant arbitraryness, libability and incomprehensibleness of the legislature, which is not the case. So, by assessing whether the ratio between income, pension insurance premiums and the amount of pension for existing legislation meets the constitutional requirement of material security in old age, the Constitutional Court has set foot on the territory of a social policy on which only legislators are responsible. That's what the Constitutional Court said... I'm sorry, a judge of the Constitutional Court, Jan Musil, published a deviant position. One. Individually. It is impossible to assess all the issues of the functioning of the pension system without special expertise in demographics, statistics, insurance mathematics and the like that the Constitutional Court does not have. Well, it's a question of course, the deviant position, because then the government could really cut their pensions here, and then the citizens here would turn to the Constitutional Court. But that is what Petr Fiala's government policy is all about, that people will be on the floor. [[19.20 hours]] I've already told you all the statistics here, that's official statistics, and actually there would be an opinion that it's the thing that it's up to the legislator to decide. Well, that would really be more of a dictatorship. But, of course, this is what it takes... Well, I'm saying this here because it concerns the pensions, and I'm here on the point of confirming the duration of the legislative emergency, which is why I'm making a big case here that there's no reason for any legislative emergency at all. Once again, I have already proposed this morning to vote on abolishing the legislative emergency, and my proposal on behalf of the SPD will be voted on at the end of the general debate. So that's why my performance is longer, and as I'm sure you'll all recognise it's very factual, I'm talking purely specifically about pensions, because that's the content here, and I'm explaining to you carefully that not only is there no reason for a legislative emergency, but a legislative emergency needs to be abolished and your bill to reject. You guys should take him down! I don't know why you're doing this to steal from an old man? That means you borrowed even in Ukrainian, you indebted the budget, but you want to take from Czech pensioners. You just can't do it like that! We don't like it at the SPD. There's only 20 out of 200 of us, but we're fighting. So this is obviously a problem. Similarly, Judge Jiří Nikodým published a different opinion on the finding and notes that in terms of financing, the Czech pension insurance system is a system that is continuously funded and therefore the amount of benefits received is not directly dependent on the premiums paid. From this point of view, the question of the degree of solidarity is not primarily a question of constitutionally legal, but a question of economic and, above all, political. Well, those are opinions, too, really. So, basically, in other words, it would mean, even though I only have it here for this short time, I'm sure it's a different position for longer, which means that constitutionally, it's not primarily a question of constitutionally legal, economic, especially political. That is, if, for example, the Fialův Government is in a record debt to the Czech budget, even contrary to the pre-election promises, it is ruining the Czech Republic here and then it will not be for pensions, so it is like an economic, above all a political issue? You can't do that. There is a need to intervene in this case, but on the contrary, it is a question of constitutional law, because I think people have a right to decent lives, and no government has the right to rob this republic of yours into all that nonsense. That means this Judge Jiří Nikodým, I don't know if he is yet or not, but okay, I don't want to draw conclusions. I've only got one sentence here, I'm just extracted here, but it's really weird opinions. Maybe there's another way, but in principle here, that's the question. I don't fully agree with this. The Constitutional Court assessed the pension versus wage ratio purely according to the state pillar pensions and completely neglected that high-income people had enough resources to prepare for retirement from their private sources. Maintaining a standard of living is a matter of further contractual insurance. Everyone has to take care of that with their own means. That's what Judge Jiří Nikodým says. It cannot be required by the State to guarantee this. He himself creates certain conditions and supports supplementary pension insurance or savings, but cannot in the basic pension scheme except proportionality (?) guarantee the living standards to date. [[unintelligible]] So let's move on. So whatever our opinion on the Constitutional Court's finding, of course, we have no choice but to respect it, that is clear, but then the then government decided to submit a so-called small pension reform, or amendment to the Pension Insurance Act No. 120/2011 Coll., which to some extent alleviates the disproportion that was criticised by the Constitutional Court. According to the Constitutional Court, people with high incomes, i.e. with higher contributions to the pension system, should also receive higher pensions than before. And the government passed, then the government, the amendment to the Pension Insurance Act. Since October 2011, newly admitted pensions are usually slightly lower than they would have been if the change had not passed. On the contrary, there was a certain increase for those who took the most into the system, i.e. people with high incomes. And completely left out of the small, so-called small pension reform at that time, people with minimal incomes up to 10,900 gross per month. They received the same pension even if no reform had passed. On the other hand, there was a slight reduction in pensions for 70 percent of people with gross income between 12 and 30,000 crowns. So it was kind of the information. And they were also there as suggestions of this type to retire people at the age of 72 and like this, but luckily these things didn't go through, of course. It's coming close to your suggestions because you want people to retire at 69, which is totally unacceptable for us. 68 years old, sorry. 68 years old. This is completely unacceptable for us. In any case, there are various efforts to do with these pensions, but there is always a lack of support for families with children basically for the sustainability of the system. And we are just saying that it is necessary to encourage those young couples, young families, not to be afraid to have the other and third child. Otherwise, when I look further at what was involved in the small pension reform at the time, the social security contributions were ceilinged at the level of four times the average wage, the decisive period from which income is collected for calculating pensions, from today's 30 years the reform extended to lifelong. There has been a change in the formula for calculating old-age pensions, valorisation should not be in government's competence next time, it will be enshrined in the law automatic, 100 percent of inflation and one third of real wage growth are included in the mechanism, and so on, and so forth. As for the large pension reform, changes in the Czech pension system have continued since the beginning of the 1990s. The then government has signed up to implement a major reform of the pension system in order to achieve long-term budgetary sustainability and to strengthen the capital component as a source of pensions. Pension reform, when I look at the 2011 explanatory report on page 57, is said to reduce labour costs and increase the competitiveness of the Czech economy at the same time. So there were some suggestions at the time that the then government proposed a so-called voluntary opt-out, which means that the insured have until the age of 35 the possibility to decide to tie part of the premium rate from the state ongoing system to the fund-capitalization pillar. Insurance workers who were over 35 years of age at the time of the reform were given the opportunity to decide on the entry to 30. 6. 2013 and will not be possible to withdraw from the system. So, in any case, there were various proposals here, with the second pillar in the proposal being financed by the early retirement insurance part of the first pillar. Balanced 3 percentage points of premiums reduce the premiums to the first pillar paid by the employee - 25% instead of 28, the premiums paid by the employer do not change. To the tied 3 percentage points, the participant is obliged to add an amount of 2 percentage points from the employer's own funds. It's just what the ODS government and TOP 09 did here at the time, in short. We're way past that, and it's a good thing that Mr. Kalousek's nonsense about bringing citizens' private money into those private funds, and it's a good thing it's already canceled, in short. [[19.30 hours]] We also see criticism here, of course, because the pension calculator, which was then published by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, did not show what pension will be in several years. Well, it was designed to be more favorable for most people to enter pension funds thanks to high returns. Did Mr. Kalousek probably set that up somehow, or what was it like there? On the contrary, this is exactly different, because the advantage here, the constructed calculator more favorably - and what about the risk I was talking about? Obviously, it's already been forgotten. So back then, the former President of the Republic also actively entered the debate, it was Klaus. The President stated that everyone, including the professional public, was surprised and surprised at the speed of the declaration of reform intentions and the details of the proposed system, which were formulated without taking place on any relevant forum, including in the media, a serious debate on the fundamental ideas of reform. So here you could see how it was sewn with a hot needle back then. After all, it was the accompanying phenomenon of the ODS government and the TOP 09 back then with Public Affairs. A reform with a great R would, according to then President Klaus, be a message that the system cannot sustain itself and that everyone needs to start preparing for its change as much as possible. That's when Klaus said -- and again I say, I'm not saying that we agree with it, I'm just quoting the situation that was here so that no one can push it, that it's probably copying the SPD's ideas. No, I didn't say that. Klaus said at the time that it must be made clear that the State-paid pension should only mean the basic security of a person's old age and that everything in addition will be for his free and voluntary choice, with various variations of state support for pension schemes. The basic pension should be maximum equal, i.e. essentially solidarity, not merit. Here what I'm sure you can agree with is that the state-paid pension is supposed to mean the basic security of a person. But, of course, here we need to clarify to what extent this is supposed to be. And I think we can break up a lot here. Because we're saying that the basic pension should be at minimum wage level, subject to legal conditions. Indeed, in this sense, the SPD has already filed a bill, and you are blocking it here, when we say that the basic decent pension should be at the level of minimum wage for those who meet the basic legal conditions, i.e. those are worked out years, age, or disability, and from that amount creditworthy. Which, of course, would give them nothing, according to the SPD's intention. If it were designed like this, of course, these statements are acceptable, but I don't know what President Klaus meant back then. How much is the basic security supposed to be? He might also mean that, like, it's gonna be 10,000 a month. Of course, that would be inadequate, that's for sure. In addition to what Nečasův' government, the ODS government, TOP 09 with Public Affairs at the time, proposed by President Klaus, points out that the greater wealth of human society in the future would mean the sum of money, and what can be bought for it, which is little for today's pensioner. It's probably something like that, it says what's the difference between a minimum pension in Albania and the US today. Hm. That's good news for future pensioners. It should also be a brake against politicians' panic that we missed it. [[unintelligible]] Something like the difference between Albania. Well, we certainly wouldn't like to compare ourselves to Albania, that's understandable. President Klaus also criticized the merger of pension reform with an increase in VAT. A government-sponsored VAT increase is an adhesive to pension reform. It represents a net income for the state and a net expenditure for citizens because it is reflected in the higher prices of goods that citizens will pay. Ex-President Klaus says that this is also a possible project and should be explained in this way and should not be hidden behind pension reform. Right now to raise taxes by a certain type of pension reform communication - I quote now Ex-President Klaus of 2011, this statement - with a certain type of pension reform communication, or pension reform communication, it is a message that the state is just continuing to try, despite democratic trends, to maintain the current, albeit very slightly modified model in the last decade. If I start pension reform by raising taxes, I give a clear signal - I'll take something from you, but then you can continue to count on me to an almost indeterminate degree. So right now, I'm still going to quote ex-President Klaus's statement on the antisocial proposal of the ODS government and the TOP 09, when he says here, it's just interesting that the pension system is facing a dilemma - either we need to radically increase taxes and payments to the pension account, or we need to increase payments from non-necessaries, or we need to strongly tell everyone that pensions will be lower in the future against salaries and wages than they have so far. The President prefers a second option and calls for individual responsibility for his fate in old age. Well, I certainly don't agree with that. It is interesting how all these politicians, who are from ODS and TOP 09 and like this, completely forget to support working families. That's a stabilizing element. This is definitely from the SPD's point of view, and in every sensible country they do it, it's supposed to be the stabilization element, having more children from working families, which, of course, strengthens the sustainability of the pension system. The ongoing pension scheme. Those kids grow up, they become adults, they go to work, and, of course, the charges go up to that system. I really can't agree that the Fialův Government here, and we see that some others see it that way, they just see the model only in raising taxes, which is what I was saying, as the consultant of the Fialův Government, Petr Janský says, that you simply support immigration, you showed us in the ukrajinec, we disagreed. Of course it's out of hand, people complain, there's just so much Ukrainianism that people have really had enough, and I'm telling you straight. We're just saying it the way it is. Or your counselor here claims -- so immigration, abroad, and then raising taxes, or reducing pensions. [[unintelligible]] Well, you also did and cut pensions. So, of course, this is unacceptable for us. [[19.40 hours]] And here, if I go further, in September 2012, President Václav Klaus returned to the Chamber of Deputies two implementing laws for pension reform. According to the President, pension reform is a fundamental change in the social system, which has a long-term effect and affects every citizen. Therefore, its content and implementation require as much consensus as possible in society. The President notes that there is no such consensus in the sphere of expertise on the political scene or in society. Well, even that former ODS chairman of yours is talking about consensus. But you're not, the Fialův government is not capable of consensus, because you don't even want to deal with the opposition. At the same time, you got a minority of votes in the election. I'll remind you that only 43 percent of the voters voted for you. That a million votes fell, it was for those parties that didn't make it to the House, and then there's the SPD and the ANO movement in opposition, and you just didn't get the majority in the election. And you're acting like world champions here, and now, according to the survey, only a little over 20 percent of the population trusts you. So you guys should just be talking to the opposition and not showing off these ideas of strength that are against people. I'll remind you why I've been talking so long. That the Fialův Government wants to rob all pension recipients, including disabled, elderly, widowed, and orphans, since June you want to rob them against legal valorisation. You want to rob them of a thousand crowns a month on average, but that's next year too. And here I'd like to point out that if you humiliate it, the pensions will actually be the lower possible valorisation, so you're actually stealing from those pensioners by over a thousand crowns a month on average. Because even the valorization will be lower in the finals than the seniors would be entitled to next year, for example. So it's even worse than the average they're talking about in the media. That's to be said, it hasn't been said that the basis will be reduced for the valorization, for the calculation of the valorization, for the future. You want to rob an old man in this one, but of course we're gonna defend it here and we're gonna defend it with all our strength. I've got enough power so far, you see, so let's have a little chat here. I just wanted to say that... So President Klaus himself calls for consensus here, and, of course, you are not capable of that in the government, that consensus at all. You don't even want to talk about it. And what does then President Klaus say about the behavior of the Nečasův government? The government pension reform project, in particular the creation of its so-called second pillar, namely individual voluntary retirement savings in private funds, is proposed to launch at a time when the financial crisis has exposed risks and undermined confidence in long-term collective investment, when similar systems in the world and, above all, in countries around us have entered into a severe crisis and are renationalised or substantially modified when the overall economic situation, especially its perspective, is not favourable, criticizes the President. That's exactly where the criticism of the other pension pillar is, the savings in the private funds. And we canceled it. That's what we canceled here after. When you put it in place, ODS, TOP 09, I wasn't in politics yet, but then I was here, and I was saying all along despite the election campaign that we wanted to cancel it, and that finally succeeded, the antisocial proposal of ODS and TOP 09, and especially TOP 09 and Miroslav Kalousek. He was the mastermind. Bringing citizens' money into private funds. They were just really doing business back then, I guess. So, of course, even then, I would say very much, in fact, that President Klaus, who was known for his very liberal economic views, obviously had to criticize this place by now, Mr Kalousek's proposals, because it was a direct danger to citizens' money. This needs to be mentioned, what the ODS has always done here, the TOP 09, because somebody might forget it, but I remember it very well. Well, you see, and even... [[He's laughing.]] That's exactly it. According to the advice of those lobbyists, the government is vehemently pursuing a pension reform based on a theory that has failed in practice. Well, that's exactly the side, the larger, just connected lobbyists, so the ODS has always been an expert on that, right? We know that. It's already been criticized by your originals, your original chairman here. And the government's political parties further, when I read, I continue to quote, as ex-President Klaus said, even though he himself was behind the ODS, so he criticized the ODS, he couldn't look at it anymore. Government political parties look like liberals, but their solutions are extremely complicated and are about to achieve relatively high pensions by some sort of mysterious market miracle. So these are exactly the experiments, they weren't experiments, I think it was arranged with the private funds. Extremely dangerous design at the time TOP 09, Kalousek, TOP 09. Yes, that's Mrs Pekarová today. Then there's some more... Of course, to recite the view of this ODS and TOP 09 activity when you were in government before. In a hurry, the government has prepared unimaginable steps that will disrupt the entire pension system. So that's exactly it. Sorry, that's an economist's commentary. That's just the way it is, and it's obvious you're unlearned. Because when he gets back into government, it's the same thing in pale blue. And let's take another look at the situation. I have to say, when I sum up the situation around 2010, the situation under the government, the last time the ODS ruled with the TOP 09, it was just that time that Bezděkův's commission recommended mandatory savings in those private funds. Which is why the committee recommended it and to whom to benefit and, above all, who gave the assignment. We've already discussed this quite in detail, but I think it was Mr. Kalousek. That is because there are those antisocial proposals TOP 09, they are experts on antisocial proposals. I will now recall Miroslav Kalousek's statement from TOP 09, which has been commissioned, elected here by the government of five coalitions, so they are all behind Mr Kalousek, the whole five coalitions - ODS, TOP 09, Pirates, STAN and KDU-ČSL. You elected him by your votes to the General Health Insurance Board, so all five sides of this coalition are supported by Miroslav Kalousek, all five sides are supported by Miroslav Kalousek, and at the same time by the five sides of the government's five-calice, you elected Miroslav Kalousek as Vice-President of the Administrative Board of the VZP. So, repeatedly in the vote, you all support Miroslav Kalousek, all five sides of the government's five-calice, and now Miroslav Kalousek, as we know, has said that he wants dental care to be fully paid for by citizens. Besides, I've already quoted that. So that's basically the government coalition's opinion, the whole government five-caliber thing. And we fundamentally reject it! We fundamentally reject it! So you, instead of working to make it available to the citizens of dental care - I said one of our proposals here, for example, to make it an obligation that all dentists must have a contract with a health insurance company, which is not today, and that is one of the problems which, by the way, according to experts, would solve the situation quite well at least in some basic way already, so on the contrary you say not only that you do not want to ensure the availability of dental care to people, but you still want to fully charge dental care! Take her out of public insurance! As we heard from Miroslav Kalousek, a representative of Fialův's five-caliber government. All of you. [[19.50 hours]] You've all elected him there and twice, twice in a row, you've elected him now last year. First to the Board of Directors and then to your representatives on the Board of Directors of the IRS, which, in general speaking, are to a large extent Members of the Government's Five Coalitions. After all, KDU-ČSL member Tom Philipp is the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the VZP. So it's completely under government control, of course, you have a majority there. Your key representative said that you wanted to remove dental care from public insurance, or that people pay for it fully. So this is absolutely unacceptable, these proposals for us, and we need to be clear. So whoever's causing significant economic damage to citizens and financial damage here is the Fialův Government. Well, let's move on, of course, because you notice that I'm speaking quite factually and to the point, and I still have quite a lot on my mind. I see I've been talking for six hours, but I think we still have enough time. So let's move on. So, in summary, basically what you were doing back then when you were in the government, the Constitutional Court ruled, but I already talked about it, and I'm just summing up that citizens with higher incomes during their careers are supposed to receive more pensions. The government responded with a small amendment to the Pension Insurance Act and, at the same time, pushed through a large pension reform that introduces opt-out, albeit on a relatively modest scale. Well, I didn't notice any major pension reforms. But good, because the problems persist. The Czech government made an opt-out at the moment the surrounding states slowly retreat from it. People are quite sensitive to the problems associated with reform in Central Europe. They see it as the fact that the government is imposing on them something that doesn't work elsewhere. Well, we see it now, that's over and over again. So now you want to reduce people's legal valorization. You think this is gonna work? It's not enough that you've put millions of people into poverty, Mrs. Pekarová and his colleagues.? That's not enough. Do you want to ruin everyone? You lower people's pensions when there's record inflation because of your government. It's just not gonna work, and you're saying it again, these mistakes. Well, in this conclusion, it is clearly stated that pension reform should therefore be done with greater prudential and discretion. Well, you didn't come up with any retirement reform. So, of course, I'm just saying, I'm already talking about this situation here, 2010, 2013. Real pension reform should be neutral for the budget, it is not to create new pension deficits, whether explicit or implicit. Oh, yeah, we can agree with that, of course. Therefore, the parameters of the continuous system should be gradually adjusted. Of course, there's this discussion how, isn't there? Of course, here we have a fundamentally different view of it. Because Petr Fiala's government says that you want to increase retirement age to 68 years, you want to increase retirement at the highest level in Europe. The SPD doesn't agree with that. So you really want to take away the citizens for everything. You want a 68-year-old citizen in a manual profession looking for a job. How do you think he'll look for a job at 68? Mrs Pekarová Adamová, Chairman of the TOP 09, President of the House, told Prima, in a discussion with the President of the SPD Radim Fiala, that people do not have to stay in the same job all their lives. So at 68, they're gonna be looking for jobs, who's gonna give them jobs? That's crazy, those statements by Chairman TOP 09, completely insane! It's totally unbelievable, unbelievable, the way he's acting. Of course, we say another suggestion. We say cut the expenses, I've named them here a hundred times. But that's not what you want, because you're sold out to Brussels, sold out there. Ukraine comes first for you. You throw the Czech pensioners overboard, you're here to rob the money they have given the law, the valorization. Well, we just don't agree with that. We say that's enough of the Ukraine! That's enough, I'm telling you straight. And all that bullshit about who just doesn't support the war, that he's rusty? Save the bullshit for you! Those are your demagogic lies. We've had enough of this, people have had enough of your Ukraine over and over again. Always Ukrajinec, Ukrajinec. I have nothing against any nation, but in the finals you threw overboard the necessary Czech citizens, and that is the problem. That's the main problem. So I actually summarized this, the situation that was in the last ODS and TOP 09 government. Basically, we see that this antisocial policy here is recycled, that you just don't change. That's with you over and over again. Now let's take a look at the population ageing. That's the argument we often hear here. But he wants to take it one way or the other. The antisocial Purple government takes it as a means to punish all pensioners and take their money. That's why today's the special meeting the government is calling. You want to rob all the seniors of money. We say that it is not, that it is necessary to ensure decent pensions and dignified old age. That is the fundamental difference between the Fialův Government's policy and the SPD. So let's take a look at the aging population. One of the most visible social and economic changes that take place in the present world is the ageing of the population. While some experts warn of the far-reaching effects of this development, this is not a new process. The life expectancy change that we have seen over the past 200 years has caused more than half of the people in the developed world to live 70 years and above. However, ageing is not limited to companies only in a developed world where Japan's most advanced trend is. Population in a number of developing countries... May I ask for peace?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u247	Yes, I'll ask colleagues who want to talk or share food, let them do so in the foyer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u248	Population in a number of developing countries is also aging, although from a lower level. The age structure of the population in countries like China can begin to resemble curves in developed countries over a few decades. The transition from a high mortality and birth rate to a low mortality and birth rate is typical of all emerging countries. [[20.00 hours]] The extension of life expectancy and the associated health standard should be welcomed as one of mankind's most admirable achievements, says Eich in his book of 2004. It should be a cause for celebration, not mourning. On the other hand, however, the ageing of the population also brings some positive solutions to the factors that need to be addressed. And economists here say, of course, and rightly, that not only governments but also the public should know about these factors. Only then can the company avail itself of all the benefits of these changes. The question is how public finances will develop in the future, as public spending associated with higher average age increases. While this problem exists in most countries with an ageing population, the challenge in the European Union is even more pronounced given the generous social systems that have grown after World War II. In view of demographic developments, the existing system may lead to a substantial increase in public expenditure, in particular pensions. Aging the population can also bring some savings, such as in education or in the social field, in parental benefits due to a small number of children. Overall, however, public finances will be burdened in the medium term. Reforms are therefore needed to enable the state to adapt to the new demographic situation. This is economists speaking, I'm actually quoting economists. Those aren't my quotes. And what are the causes of aging the population? First, life expectancy has increased dramatically over recent decades and can be expected to continue to increase, says Weil in his 1997 book. While in 1900, it's interesting to compare like this, while in 1900 people lived on average for 30 years, today we live to be 67 years old. While some claim that life expectancy may increase indefinitely, others assume a certain natural limit beyond which age will no longer increase. Well, that's the question. By the middle of the 20th century, the increase in life expectancy was mainly driven by falling infant mortality. While at the end of the Middle Ages there was a common mortality rate of about 500 out of thousands of children born alive in Europe, infant mortality today fell below 1%. The main reason that we can now expect a much longer life on average is not that we all live longer, but that far fewer people will soon die. And people don't realize that this is the main factor of longer life expectancy. And again, to point out that I'm getting to the point, so what are we talking about here? We're talking to a point here. Confirmation of the duration of the state of legislative emergency in connection with the fact that the government proposes a law to rob all pension recipients of both old-age and orphans and widows and disabled people, and you want to rob them of an average of CZK 1 000 a month from June, even though they are entitled to the statutory valorisation. You want to purposefully change the retroactive law, which is why the SPD wants to file a constitutional complaint at the same time. That's why we're here, I'm applying for it because we're defending the SPD with all our strength defending the government's five-calice, which - you're outnumbered to us, there's only 20 of us, there's 108 of you - but with all our strength, the SPD is fighting for all the pensioners, for all the recipients of disability, old age, widows and orphans' pensions. That's why I've been talking here for six hours, and I hope I'll talk longer, because we're simply preventing it from happening. We're doing the biggest obstructions we've had so far, and I'm claiming that we're building it up and preventing the Fialův government coalition from robbing nearly 3 million pensioners of their legally entitled money. And we're gonna do it. Once again, the SPD has tabled 102 amendments here, we will all justify it. You will be with us for days, maybe even weeks, and it is 108/20, but the SPD will fight to the last drop of strength and we will fight for all pension recipients in the Czech Republic. And we're fighting. We're on the old people's side. You threw them overboard. So here I am at this point, because here we have a new Madam President, so I am going exactly, in accordance with the law, to justify your nonsense. [[Olga Richter]] You want to push it through here in a legislative emergency, robbing a retired person. You're already so horny, you want to rob them as fast as you can. That's why there's a legislative emergency. You're still in a hurry, even, that's incredible, your behavior, that government of yours. You're pushing it here in a legislative emergency, because it's said that there's considerable economic damage to the state if you pay the elderly what they own. And I'm trying to explain to you that you're lying, that it's not true, that retired people are entitled to it, to the money, and that the economic damage you've caused here is your incompetence, and now you're taking the elderly hostage as scapegoats. So that's why I'm trying here, all the time explaining how you need to approach retired people, the pensions that are models to disprove your nonsense about what you're pushing through here even more in a legislative emergency. That's why I'm going back to this, because there's already a number of presidents here, so that it's clear and that I don't get chattered up. Now, where was I? [[He's looking in the background.]] Here, here. This means, so in the second half of the 20th century, the increase in life expectancy of older age cohorts was driven by a change in lifestyles and a higher level of medical care. More than 85 percent of the world's population has the hope of living at least 60 years, twice as long as people could have waited on average even a hundred years ago. This means that there will be more elderly people in society, and within this group the number of the oldest will grow, because much of the social benefits and health costs are allocated to the elderly. This means that public spending will increase in this area and, under the same conditions, it will either have to allocate more resources than today for older citizens, for example, the share of pensions per GDP will increase, or the elderly will receive less benefits than they do today. In practice, the standard of living of pensioners would grow in this case, but slower than in the productive population. The second cause of ageing is the reduction in birth rate. Well, you see, the experts here say it's exactly like the SPD that you need to start that demographic curve. Your advisor to the Fialův Government, Petr Janský, says you want to deal with immigration, and you're already dealing with it. Immigration, that's more people from abroad, you showed us with those Ukrajinec, because every tenth person in the Czech Republic is about Ukrajinec. People have had enough, and I understand them completely, to Czech citizens. You just overdid it, you didn't make it. But we say no to immigration, but we say that it is necessary to support Czech working couples and working families with children, so that we motivate them to do so and not be afraid to have two or three children. But you don't give a damn. You guys just want to rob old people over and over again. So fertility, the number of children per woman between the ages of 15 and 44 has fallen below the rate of simple reproduction that two children per woman are considered to be when neglecting migratory flows. [[20.10 hours]] Well, the Czech Republic is under two kids per woman, isn't it? And for a long time. Yes, even Babišův's government didn't do anything about it. That's right. Yes. But either way, it's just a problem. [[Mr Schiller's response.]] True, Mrs. Maláčová from ČSSD was in charge of it for you. [[Mrs Schiller: It has risen one tenth for us.]] Well, one tenth.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u249	I'm begging you - for a microphone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u250	Yeah, but the parental allowance was raised by the SPD's voices. Sure. The SPD here also has a bill to raise parenting, but unfortunately it doesn't get to the program because we're in opposition. We got it from the past, too. That's as good as it gets. But that's a match. Let's work together on good laws. Anyway. I'm sure that's good. It's okay. In any case, even the existing governments had in this reserve, because we need to get through the average two children to the mother. That's the point. But the Fialův government is actually destroying young families. You don't deal with living. Nothing. People are really afraid to have a baby. She's afraid to have children. You give tens of billions to Ukrainians and say that they are mothers with children instead of supporting the adequate finances of the Czech family with children. It's absolutely incredible what the Fialův government is doing. That's really gross, this, I gotta say! And even with this, you're causing a lot of social tension, of course. So this is really a problem. We always say that helping those really needy does, but you have completely forgotten about Czech citizens. Oh, we forgot. You're doing it on purpose. You didn't even remember them. This is also seen in the fact that you don't even deal with expensive food, for example, and people go shopping in Poland. But only those who live by the border can do that. While immigrants maintain a higher birth rate in the United States, in Europe the birth rate dropped below 1.4 children per woman, yesterday even to 1.2. We just need to support families with children. And if the SPD were in the government, we'd do it right away. There are many reasons why birth rates in developed countries are falling. Richer companies generally have fewer children than poorer ones, says Loužek, 2004. Some economist, apparently. After all, it's an economic book. The cost of child opportunities is greater in developed countries than in developing countries. People travel more, are more educated, and success in employment is important to them so that they do not have a large family. But that is why, of course, there must be a positive state and a positive motivation. Because even in countries where the standard of living is high, young people sooner or later come to a stage where they want to have children, and they want to have two children, they want one child to have siblings, but the economy does not feel like it afterwards. And that's trouble. And it is always better, in my opinion, to support our citizens than to basically drag in immigrants from a different environment. It also costs a lot of money, as we can see. The government has already put tens of billions on it, only the Ukrainians. But, of course, they have different customs. And if we support our people, we think it's just the right thing to do. So here they come to the conclusion that of course... well, I don't know if a city person needs so many children anymore, these are some conclusions that could be really controversial. So there are these two causes of aging the population, which is okay. We have full respect for the elderly, and we want them to have dignified old age, decent lives. And here it is rightly noted in this book that ageing the population is not a sign of decline, but of wealth. We have more free time, more security, more education, more civilizational conveniences, more food, healthier and longer life. So, of course, it says very well here that they're basically, in fact, they should be problems of minor importance, that aging the population. And we should deal with it. We should deal with this. The government should deal with this. As far as the demographic projections are concerned, the authors themselves seem to be Němec, Dieter and Weizsäcker, from 1989, so here they point out that it would help governments get acquainted with the demographic trends. So while analyses of future trends have become quite sophisticated over time, understanding of long-term trends remains limited by governments. And that's exactly the problem. That's what we see here in the Fialův Government. By the way, one of the unknown variables is the future development of life expectancy. Will life expectancy continue to grow linearly, how did this happen during the 20th century? Will it increase forever? Those are the questions. Or is life expectancy going to converge on some in quotation marks to the natural upper biological limit? Some claim that life expectancy has more or less reached the upper limit. Some experts also say that it is also difficult to predict future birth rates. Will fertility fall indefinitely? Like under one child for a woman of childbearing age? Or will it stay on the current surface? Or is he even going to come back over 1.5? This is where we know it's necessary to have a birth rate of over two children per mother so we don't die. Here, experts point out - Bezděk, Kreidl, Dybczak - that even a small change in fertility can cause large differences in population structure in the future, which would change the expected fiscal balance. This uncertainty is taken into account by population projections that create demographers when they count on a low, medium, or high variant of fertility, birth rate or life expectancy. Population forecasts from the workshop of the European Union, the UN or the OECD are frequently and fundamentally revised. For example, the UN population projections are quite fundamentally changing for individual countries and differing from data published a few years ago. Table IV.1 - I will, of course, explain this table in detail - brings the OECD's assumption of the development of fertility and life expectancy for men and women by 2050. The increase in life expectancy is expected for all observed countries. For fertility, it is surprising that some countries are expected to grow, for others to fall, but overall, the forecast is growing. They're probably gonna play their part as migrants. When we look at expected fertility and life expectancy, it is interesting because in Australia, for example, they had 1.72 children per woman in 2000 and there is a drop that in 2050 there is a prediction of only 1.56 children per woman. What is interesting is the life expectancy, when in 2050 there is a significant increase in life expectancy, when in Australia, while in 2000, the average age of life in men was 76,7 years, so in 2050 the average age should be 82.6 years. And for women in Australia, but I'm gonna get to Europe right away, just because I got it from A, so I got it first, so the median life expectancy in women was 82.2 in 2000, the average life expectancy, and the average life expectancy that is predicted in 2050 for women in Australia, is 87.8 years. [[20.20 hours]] Now, of course, I'm interested in Japan, the Czech Republic. I've got Austria here somewhere in neighboring countries. So in Austria, while in 2000 there was 1.31 children in Austria, so really very little - by the way Czech Republic 1.14, which is of course the trivial business card of those governments, how it does not encourage people not to be afraid to have children, so in 2050 there is a prediction of 1.5 in the Czech Republic, and in Austria it should also rise to 1.5. So, of course, it's a general problem. And the average age of life in the Czech Republic for men in 2000 is 71.5 years and 2050 is 75.2, so it doesn't rise very much. Well, at least here we see our future. Women in the Czech Republic have the average age of life - in 2000 it was 78.4 years old and it will increase women in 2050 to 81.5 years old. On average, six years longer, Czech women live than men. So basically, we see that the trend isn't exactly optimal. Of course, I have a full table here, but I'm not gonna read this whole thing for nothing right now. Foretelling the size of the population requires assumptions about the fertility of future couples and their length of survival. Such assumptions have proved wrong in the past. Population growth rates may fall due to migration flows as well as rise. Although the global population in the world is still growing, it can shrink in some geographical areas, such as Europe. But there's nothing dramatic or catastrophic about it. It's Simon's opinion from 2006, an economist. And the warning is that in 2050 there could be, for example, 8 million people in the Czech Republic, 4.5 million people in Slovakia, but it does not mean tragedy. Fearing that the nation would be poorer is useless. There is no direct dimension between population size and per capita GDP. Individuals need not be so interested in whether there are 4, 8 or 10 million fellow citizens in his country. Fears of a possible decline in the rate of economic growth or prosperity in ageing societies do not stem from the fact that population growth can be negative, rather than from an unfavorable relationship between an economically active and inactive population. It is therefore desirable to take a closer look at the age structure of the population and to link it with the production of products in the national economy. Well, let's move on. Countries with lower birth rates must expect weaker economic growth. And I keep talking about pensions, I keep talking about pensions, I keep talking about what you're suggesting that you want to rob all the pension recipients. Because it needs to be looked at completely, not that you're robbing people of pensions, legislative emergency, and bang. No, you don't. We don't agree with that. Not even by stealing from an old man or your legislative emergency that you're still in a hurry, no. So that's why I'm trying to explain to you what leads to sustainable pensions, to be decent pensions, and then you don't have to show off your proposals here, with the fact that you want to rob retired people, and yet in a legislative emergency, you're pushing it to do it as soon as possible. So I speak from beginning to end in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. So countries with lower birth rates must expect weaker economic growth. In most European countries, there will be a decline in the number of industrially active and therefore a slowdown in economic growth. However, the impact on GDP per capita is not clear. The per capita welfare would not have to fall at all if public policy did not respond by a sharp increase in tax burden, says economist Prettner, 2013. That means not to increase the tax burden so that the sentence sounds right, not to increase, but you want to increase the tax burden. You want to lower the standard of living of citizens. We don't agree with that either. It is from the point of view of demographic ageing that quite a lot is being said about the budgetary sustainability, the fiscal sustainability. And here, of course, there are a number of studies predicting the development of pension expenditure and their share of GDP. In most European countries, the main source of income comes from the government. In some countries, such as the United States, Britain - but that is what I was talking about when I was here explaining to you what the pension system is like in Britain to have a comparison, I am not saying to inspire there, but to provide complete information - so the income of pensioners is derived from both public and private sources. And given the less reliance on the state then the current level of public pensions would be smaller in these countries than in a continuous Europe under otherwise the same conditions. And we don't want them to be smaller pensions. So I was just putting it here as a comparison, that the United States, the United Kingdom, that's the combination of public and private resources, but I'm not saying that it's meant to be, we want those state-funded dignified pensions, what the SPD wants. And I would say that the bleaker forecast for the development of public finances is usually based on the calculation of the so-called index or dependency ratio, which shows the share of economically inactive people of working age, which is 20 to 65 years old. And these forecasts show that the index of dependence of the elders is increasing in all countries by 2050. Of course, the most obvious is in Japan, where I suspect even the highest average age of survival from those great nations, if we do not count a country like Andorra and such, where there really are many people, but also Spain, Italy, Poland, Portugal, but also the Czech Republic. The total number of addicts is a wider set. When I economically say what these so-called addicts mean, that's an economic concept. It's not that I'm saying someone's addicted. And next to that group of seniors, by the way, children under the age of 14. And in demographics, addiction is derived from economic activity. So the dependency index represents the burden on the economy primarily resulting from the possibility or impossibility of people of a certain age to participate in product creation. Dependence indices express the age distribution of the population, not real economic dependence. For example, some children or pensioners share in the workforce. [[20.30 hours]] The very concept of addiction is relative, however, because when a 70-year-old has his own apartment, drives a car, buys and cooks himself, helps with grandchildren, engages in social activities, of course, the question of who and what he is actually, in quotation marks, dependent on. But I'm saying again, I'm not evaluating it here, I'm quoting economists here. Small children also rely on others in all their needs, but they are not spoken of. Of course, all children need long - term care at home. That's for sure. And what's the conclusion? That's important. Here, experts also clearly state that the theory that an ageing population is a burden, while the younger population is a hope for successful development, is unilateral. So you have to reject this thesis. And I've even heard that... I see it sometimes on Facebook, it makes me sick, from the way some people - I see posts there, luckily few - who I would say very badly express themselves to the address of old people, to the address of seniors. Oh, no! We're all gonna be old someday. That's why the SPD wants us to ensure decent lives for all seniors. You can't say it like that. And you see, even here, it follows from these expert analyses that they're one-sided statements. And we, exactly, am glad to quote here that, on the contrary, seniors, pensioners are a solid part of our society, and the SPD will support them, just like all decent citizens. The numbers in table two offer a different view. Well, the chart, it's right here, but maybe just verbally. Although Africa is a continent with the youngest population, its overall dependency index is relatively high. Well, with the youngest, we've already said that, there's also the question of the age of survival, of course, and the high birth rate at the same time. But I've said that before. Its overall dependency index is relatively high, and it even moves above the world average. Isn't that right? because a large number of dependent children are born on this continent. That's obviously the problem, the demographic curve on the contrary in Africa, because, of course, when someone's being irresponsible and then unable to support the children, that's just a problem too. It's obviously a problem, and I'm saying it politically unfairly. And they're gonna be here again from some political nonprofits and sunmen, there's gonna be attacks on Okamura again, that I said something. And I stand by it. The result is then, too... the problems will escalate with regard to migration from African and other countries, developing countries. [[unintelligible]] Here the Czech families behave responsibly, then the government here takes their money again, and here the European Union supports uncontrolled migration from Africa and the Middle East, where they are not responsible. Here the Czech family is considering whether to feed children, the government is still throwing sticks at them, and there they are not thinking about anything, and the result is, of course, this condition. And it needs to be said. We're not able to finance the whole world here, especially when people were being irresponsible. For us, the SPD, the Czech citizen is first and the support of Czech citizens. There are substitutions in the age structure. The increase in the number of older people is accompanied by a decrease in the proportion of children, which increases the index of addiction of older people, but lowers the index of dependence of children. We consider it natural that the infant is helpless, practically dependent on his parents, and his addiction slowly decreases. This imbalance between emphasising old addiction and underestimating young people's dependence is one of the reasons for fear of aging society. But useless fear. It needs to be dealt with, but the Fialův government doesn't, of course, deal with it at all. The calculations of the so-called addiction index are given by convention. If we calculate the active numbers as a percentage of, for example, 15 to 68 or even 15 to 70, we get different numbers. The ratio of pensioners and occupationally active is a variable that can be moved. Although the ratio of dependence, where we take into account children, handicapped and unemployed, is much higher than the simple ratio of dependence of elders, they have not yet collapsed economically. Now, let's see if we can talk about this - and I'm still talking about the pensions, of course - and what about that? You see that there is a need to educate the government here, because you don't want to do it anyway and you won't, with you it's like throwing games on the wall, so let's look at the phenomenon of human health from the point of view of pensions and from the point of view of what we're dealing with here. Employment will also increase depending on how life expectancy and population health will develop, as people will be willing and able to work later. If life expectancy increases, and the health of the elders, let's say 70, will improve, our boundaries of who is young or old can shift. But here I would point out strongly that we are definitely refusing to raise the retirement age. Our idea is that people at the age of 65, 65 at the most, get dignified pensions, and who wants to work and earn money at the same time, so let them earn and work. Not like you do. You want people to retire at the age of 68, the highest average retirement age in Europe would be, well, even here today is the government proposal, which is why I'm standing here to prevent you from robbing seniors. That's crazy! Crazy! Of course, the health of our citizens has gradually improved over the last few centuries. They are medicines, they are health care, they were not before, so with both health, hygiene and higher standard of living beat infectious diseases, people live longer and better. Because of this, we also die much more often from diseases caused by old age and lifestyle, especially cancer and cardiovascular diseases. We suffer less serious diseases and experience less danger of death. As we live longer, we will be able to work longer, says Lomborg, 2006. Well, I'm stressing again, that doesn't mean our opinion is the one I said. The Purple government wants people to work until 68, we say maximum retirement 65, like now, and who will want to work then, of course, work, make a profit, but let them also have a pension. So also in terms of pensions, in terms of the sustainability of the pension system, of course, health spending is a major challenge. And, of course, the health expenditure can be predicted from an economic point of view a little more difficult than pension expenditure. This depends on a number of demographic and non-demographic factors, and our understanding of these trends is more limited than those of pensions, because of course there are more factors, so of course these analyses are less consistent. The forecasting of health expenditure in this long term is complex because factors primarily unrelated to ageing are being pulled. And what have we witnessed here last year? The Fialův Government took 14 billion crowns from health insurance companies. We warned that the availability of health care for Czech citizens would get worse, and here it is. So you took CZK 14 billion from the health care industry and made health care worse. That means you want to rob nearly 3 million pension recipients of money, 14 billion you've already taken the health system, so you've made the availability of health care worse, and you've already dosed it further and further, I've already talked about it here, you want to raise taxes and so on. And we're against, the SPD is against, of course. Let's go to the health aspects, because of course they need to be known from the point of view of pensions and they need to be discussed. Health spending is more related to per capita GDP, technological level and other variables affecting people of all ages. People's health costs are rising as death approaches, but they are low at working age. Ageing the population shifts the cost of health care, health care, to later years of life.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u251	Mr President, I'm sorry, but I'm going to interrupt you for a moment to lower the left side of the hall. Thank you. So you can keep going.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u252	Thank you. [[- Please.]] Thank you. There you go! You surprised me. [[Fun.]] Thus, the most expensive period of life from the point of view of healthcare is the last two years of life, i.e. the period of life, when it is the most expensive from the point of view of healthcare. Approximately one-quarter of the cost of health care is consumed in the last year of life. Age alone cannot be considered as an important determinant of national health expenditure. Large differences in the demographic structure are consistent with a small or no difference in health expenditure per head. Tabata and Šimoto, 2010. Apparently Japanese analysis. Even if we knew life expectancy in the future, this information would not tell us much about the development of health spending for older citizens. Now, most people in their 60's are bright and healthy, so they live in an active style and enjoy their retirement. This was not the case in the past. And now the question arises, which is why I am talking about this: can we expect an extension of life expectancy to take place in good health, or will people live in worse health? This, in turn, needs to be analysed from the point of view of the pensions and sustainability of the system. By the way, since we already have the President here, but now, at peace, Madam President, by your means, I hope that you will not propose restrictions on speaking time for Members for perhaps two or five minutes. That would be an unfortunate surprise, because I think it is such a serious law, or one of the House's leadership, that I hope it will not be proposed, or one of the government MPs, because I think it is such a serious issue that it is necessary to leave time for all Members of the House to be able to speak as they please. That's my opinion on that. So as long as I'm at the microphone, I wanted to challenge you to do that, since the atmosphere is a little positive, so let's finish it. So I'm sure it's my request, it's my request that the government coalition not propose restrictions on the speaking time of any Member, because we're talking about humiliating pensions. The government wants, we're against, almost 3 million citizens, and that's not funny. It's not funny! And I think that this is such a serious subject that all Members should be given full space to express themselves. And that's what I was gonna ask you to do. And I'll keep going. And it's gonna take a long time. Of course. But the proposal also concerns almost 3 million people who want to deprive them of the legal money. It's not just that. It's not easy! It's not just that. So the public needs to know fully about your proposal, I mean the government, because you stand by it, and also how the opposition sees it, that we don't want the retired to be robbed of the promised money. For this, I think it is necessary to give legitimate space, because it concerns almost a third of the citizens of the Czech Republic and with families of almost everyone. So I'm gonna keep going. There is good reason to believe that the longer we live, the less we are on average sick. As we fought death more and more successfully, we achieved a greater spread of diseases without fatal injuries. Now we are much more aware of the disease, and medical science is finding out a number of new, especially nervous diseases that people had no idea about before. Overall, however, with the extension of life in developed and developing countries, people are getting healthier and healthier. And again, I'm talking about the pensions. I'm talking about why this legislative emergency, like it's completely out of reality, even your proposal, the government proposal, I mean the government here. So I'm just telling you that that's why I'm talking about it, I'm getting closer, I'm actually talking for almost seven hours, but I'm not going to end of course, but I just wanted to say that I'm giving a complete view here that the sustainability of the pension system can be solved without you stealing from the government without the government stealing from the elderly for the promised money, and on the contrary, we can add more to the pensioners. On the contrary, we can add more to the elderly. And here we need to evaluate all the factors - there are health aspects, there are social aspects. That's why I'm talking about it here. So it's not that I'm talking about diseases and health care, it's all about the pensions, of course. So, of course, the longer people live and have fewer children, they will invest more in their own human capital, i.e. human health, says Lomborg, 2006. As people get richer, they value health more and want to consume more health services, while the development of technology in some diseases helps reduce the cost of treatment, such as vaccination, but increases costs for others. Although Europe's population is getting older, it is also extremely healthy. This factor is crucial for competitiveness, because today's economic growth... Maybe I'd like some peace, if I may, co-workers, because I don't want to raise my voice much anymore, you know?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u253	I'd like that, too. So I will follow up on that, just my colleagues from your club, Mr. President, by name, please. His voice is so loud.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u254	Yes, yes, that's why I said it myself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u255	Then you may proceed. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u256	Now you've filled me in a little bit. All right. [[Fun.]] So good. Although Europe's population is getting older, it is also extremely healthy. This factor is crucial for competitiveness, because today's economic growth is driven by more human than physical resources. Life expectancy is an excellent variable for both general health and economic potential. The prospect of a longer life promotes investment in education and knowledge, thus promoting productivity. Health means wealth. The generation of today's Evropan is physically more robust and educated than ever. Evropan have turned the years of life into leisure. In France, life expectancy has increased by eight years since 1960, but pension age has fallen by seven at the same time. Between 2070-2004, pensions increased by nine years in Germany, by ten years in Spain. From the point of view of European history, economists Bloom, Köning and Fink say that older people are basically the most historically healthy and basically have the highest standard of living, which, of course, compared to the Middle Ages and the like, but that means that we want to maintain that standard of living and we want to increase it of course. I'm not saying that because we should stagnate here. I'm just quoting economists here. And what would that mean for politicians, this situation? Public policy should be here according to authors, they are also Western economists again, so they should adapt to population development, not try to change it. Of course, as the average age of survival increases, the question of long-term budgetary sustainability has become a political agenda, and governments can, of course, respond to population ageing in different ways. Of course, one of the options, but this is not a topic for the SPD in the Czech Republic, is raising taxes. But the Czech budget has, it can cut off the necessary expenses, but the Fialův government just doesn't want to do it. That's the problem. So there is no need to raise taxes in the Czech Republic. Of course... And that's here. The government can save money, exactly. The government can save money, save money. But the government doesn't do that. The question is, and the economists here rightly say that it is questionable to raise taxes, because it would mean a higher tax burden per person of working age, even here economists contradict that it may not be the right model of course. And we think that this is not the right model, that there are still savings in the system in the Czech Republic. But in the system, it's all the extra expenses. But I was talking about it about five or six hours ago at the beginning of my speech. [[20.50 hours]] Otherwise, of course, the aging population, that's an interesting passage. That the ageing population doesn't just have a negative impact on budgets. Since, on the other hand, there are fewer pupils in schools, this allows for a reduction in the overall cost of education, fewer pupils will allow for a reduction in the number of classes and so on, and so on. Save operating investment expenses. But I think we should start the pro-family policy, so it's just like, by the way, they mention it here. That's actually the situation. And, of course, the most important part of the debate on the impact of population ageing on public finances is pension reform. And that's what we've been talking about all along. You didn't bring it. All you've put forward, the Fialův Government, is that you want to rob a pensioner of the promised valorization. And the SPD fundamentally disagrees with that, of course, we want the pensioners to get the promised money. On the contrary, we want to increase pensions. So, of course, we don't agree with that. And in most European countries, pensions are now funded on an ongoing basis. They are based on the principle that current pensioners' pensions are being paid on an ongoing basis by today's workforce. The fact that, of course, with the changing age of living, so continuously, logically in some way, it is necessary to change the parameters of the pension system as well. Well, that's the debate on how to ensure dignified pensions, not that it's the way the Fialův government suggests that you want to rob all pension recipients of the promised pensions. That's just wrong. That's basically what we've been talking about here. Now, of course, I could discuss the demographic development here. That, for example, the supporters of the fund system, such as Mr Kalousek, are underestimating the remarkable flexibility of the ongoing system in adverse demographic developments, which was highlighted by the economist Cipriani in 2014. All studies rightly show that the number of pensioners to the productive population will rise in the next decade. The number of pensioners will increase in connection with the extension of the human age and the declining number of live births. But the impact of this development on the ongoing system is not correctly evaluated. I have already said that even administrative economists here say, or this is interesting, it has to be said that the demographic problem is exaggerated and abused to pressure on the destruction of the ongoing pension system. Well, that's exactly what the Fialův government and some commentators are doing on the side of the Fialův government. I'll read it again. The demographic problem is exaggerated, abused to pressure on the destruction of the ongoing pension system. And that needs to be repeated. Of course, those dignified pensions can be maintained, but you simply need to chop off the necessary data that brings nothing to the citizens, which Petr Fiala's government gives away from America to Ukraine, to Brussels, you pay nonsense, and then, of course, there is no money for our citizens. And we're getting into a record deficit, which I already said at the beginning of my speech that Petr Fiala's government is essentially about the debt, the debt trend in the third quarter of last year, that's the latest data from the European Statistical Office, Eurostat, so it's the worst in Europe, the worst in the whole EU. That, of course, is a problem. And as for... Taking into account the extended average length of life and the shift in retirement age, which has been steadily extended by three months per year in the last 20 years, the ratio of the number of people in working age to one person in retirement age would fall only slightly over the next 60 years according to demographic calculations in the Czech Republic, from 2,9: 1 to 2,8: 1. The problem is that most economists' previous calculations in terms of sustainability of the ongoing system were based on the preservation of retirement age in 2032, while in the forecast of the system deficit they went far beyond this horizon. Furthermore, there is quite an interesting phrase that solves the pension problem through further introduction of the second pillar by reducing contributions to the first pillar meets serious difficulties. Real reform should not create pension deficits, whether explicit or implicit. But I've been talking about that about twice before. This, of course, needs to be borne in mind. And I say again that the SPD, of course, insists that the state provide people with decent pensions so that it can be guaranteed by the state. To sum up, the issue of ageing the population in terms of the sustainability of pensions, even economists make it clear that we should not be afraid of ageing the population. As a result of the fact that people produce fewer children, I have already talked about this, and they live to be older. Both of these facts testify to prosperity, not poverty or impending disaster. But, of course, the information needs to be dealt with, and pension systems need to be reformed. The health systems need to adapt. So even here, the authors of this book are calling for it, literally saying - quote: "Let us stop portraying it as the coming destruction. " It's just exactly what the SPD says. Recipients of pensions, we value them, we fully support them. But what the Fialův government is doing here with them is that you threw them overboard and you want to cut their promised pensions, that's just disgusting. You're turning these old people into somebody who might be in the way here or something. I'm trying to explain here that it's not. Pensioners are important, we will all be old once, and we fully support them. We support both disabled, elderly, widowed and orphaned pensioners. And you all want to take the money now from June and we're against it. Here even the authors say and speak quite openly in this. People... but that's what makes us afraid, some politicians inspire, people fear aging society because it's a step into the unknown and because we live in a culture obsessed with youth. However, fears are unfounded. So that's it. And judges don't retire 70 years ago, and politicians, actors, scientists, and writers often work fertilely until their death. Of course, it's not manual work. That's completely different. There is an example of the fact that there is no need to say that someone is a pensioner and that he is perhaps a liability. It's not. It's not. We just want to say that, of course, the pension system must be reformed, certainly, but the views on the reform, as I have said, are of course very different. We want decent pensions, we want dignified old age, we want disabled citizens to have decent pensions, widowers, orphans, and the government wants to take their money. So she's not reform like reform. We don't really agree with yours, so it's not reform, but it's just totally antisocial, we just can't. On the contrary, we want this reform so that we can get closer to Germany. That's what we're talking about here. Here economists point out that, in the event of reasonable caution, individual financial situations could improve across generations in a wealthy society. With a stationary population, GDP may not grow so rapidly, but the quality of life of GDP per capita is still increasing. Well, here are the honest words. [[21.00 hours]] The older generation is almost blamed for living longer instead of congratulating her. Well, unfortunately, that's what the Fialův government is doing here. You take pensions from people, since June you want to reduce the legal valorization they have by law, people looking forward to it, you want to rob them of the money, and that's what you're saying that pensioners aren't needed. We're defending it here, we want pensions to increase. The costs of ageing the population in society are too highlighted and the potential benefits are completely overlooked. Population ageing should be seen not as a crisis, but as a process that creates new opportunities. Aging is inevitable, but if we care too much about aging, we're wasting time on other things, the Western economists are clearly saying here. So, by the way -- that's also a nice conclusion -- it's remarkable that happiness with life grows with age. The satisfaction of seniors with a standard of living - when they really have dignified pensions in the West, that's what it is, but it's not here in Bohemia, and the Fialův Government wants to make it worse - so when seniors are satisfied with standard of living, health, personal relationships and security, so the satisfaction is paradoxically higher, it is written here, in older people than in middle-aged people. So we can have happy people with decent lives. So again, aging the population may not be a tragedy, but a blessing. Older workers can be highly motivated, in many areas even more productive than younger. But, of course, in manual professions, it is not possible for a person in 68 to look for manual work, and who will employ it, of course. So we are clearly saying that the ceiling is 65 years for retirement, and we are rejecting these antisocial proposals of the Fialův Government. So the older population will have a number of benefits that the younger doesn't have. There will be fewer crimes, because the most crimes are committed by younger ones according to this study, this book. Society will be more politically stable because old people with life's wisdom are less prone to revolutions. Well, these are some conclusions, but I'm just quoting the contents of the book. Those aren't Okamura's opinions, but it's remarkable to say the conclusions of experts here. People will live longer than in the past, they will have a healthier life, they will be more educated in their experience, with higher productivity, they will enjoy better technology. Aging cannot reverse this basic positive trend, rather paradoxically fulfill it. So extending life expectancy in most societies over the last century is the most successful progress our planet has had, and we should appreciate it. Why am I telling you this? So you don't throw seniors overboard like you did. You still have a chance to withdraw your law. I've already proposed to abolish the legislative emergency here. My proposal will be voted on after a general debate. I call on the government to withdraw this antisocial bill that it wants to rob all pensioners in the Czech Republic. I'm trying to explain all these aspects to you. So, in short, the aging population doesn't represent any reason for any panic, for some bad moods. On the contrary, extending life expectancy and the associated health standard should be welcomed as one of mankind's most admirable achievements. So this is how we want the government to see it positively. But you see it the other way around, you take money from the elderly. But even the orphans, the widows, just everyone, the disabled, not just the elderly. It's just completely incredible what the government is doing here. So what I'm saying is that basically what you're proposing here, I think it's really extremely antisocial. It is, of course, extremely unacceptable that you propose to rob nearly 3 million pension recipients, all pensions in the Czech Republic, about the legal guaranteed money. Retroactively even, after the Czech Statistical Office announced the rate of inflation on 10 February, according to the current law, all pension recipients were automatically entitled to valorisation. You guys took over the government on February 15th, so you've decided to steal from senior citizens about their pensions. As I stress again, the prediction of inflation already last autumn, last winter before February, was clear that inflation would be higher. So you could put it in the state budget this year, but you didn't. So that's a series of mistakes and errors on the part of Petr Fiala's government. Now in the finals, you've taken all the pensioners in the Czech Republic hostage and you want to rob them of their money. This is unacceptable for us and the SPD, and we will do everything we can to prevent your antisocial proposal from going through. Thank you for your attention and, of course, I'm not done with my performances, because when I look at the schedules here, that's actually the first moment I'm performing. And then I see one, two, at least another five to six spaces to get out. So I think we're gonna recycle my performance, and I'm gonna keep defending all pension recipients against the antisocial Fialův government. So I've been talking for over seven hours, but I'm not done yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u257	Now, with a factual remark in response to the speech, Minister Jurečka is registered, but I do not see that he is present. So he's failing to sign up for the deed. Mr Nacher is also registered with the facts, but again I do not see him in the hall. That's why we get to the logged in. Vice-President Dostálová is registered with priority rights. Before he gets to the counter, I'm gonna try to load all the apologies that have run out in the meantime. Cogan Josef from 14:00 to 15:00 without giving reason, Jakob Jan from 14:00 to 15:00 for work reasons, Kohajda Michal from 15:30 for work reasons, Mračková Vildumetzová Jana from 18:00 to 22:00 for family reasons, Oulehlová Renata from 15:40 for family reasons, Rais Karel from 13:00 for health reasons, Špičák Julius from the whole day for health reasons, Válková Helena from 16:00 for health reasons, Černochová Jana from 19:00 for work reasons, Rakušan Vít from 12:00 to 16:00 for work reasons and Šalomoun Michal from 20:00 to 6:00 in the morning for personal reasons. Now, then, Vice-President Dostálová will speak, followed by Mr Radim Fiala, with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u258	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, we are at a stage of confirmation of the duration of the legislative emergency. I am convinced that the Prime Minister is responsible for the government of the Czech Republic. Therefore, I would very much like to ask the Prime Minister to come forward and justify the announcement of a state of legislative emergency. A legislative emergency itself can be declared in exceptional circumstances, which are when fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens or the security of the state are significantly threatened or when the State is threatened with significant economic damage. Prime Minister, I was wondering which of these three situations occurred to you. Let me remind the House of one thing, and that is that this case of declaring a state of legislative emergency is different from those we have had in the past, and it is quite fundamentally different. Let me remind you that when we were in a state of legislative emergency, for example, approving the so-called covid laws, the approval was then across the political spectrum in the House. This means that it is evident that there was a broad consensus in the House that the reasons for choosing an extraordinary rule of law were simply recognised. This is understandable, of course, because there are situations such as floods or pandemics and the like, where the House does not have to have a big debate and there is a broad consensus between the opposition and the coalition that it is possible to fundamentally reduce the process of adopting certain decisions of laws, because we see something rolling on us and that there is real danger of delay. The Constitutional Court states that what is absolutely essential to it is that the state of legislative emergency should be decided in the consensus of the coalition and opposition and that there is no significant majority of Members in the House whose opinion would be limited in some way. [[21.10 hours]] While in those past situations we had a consensus that it was good to deal with it quickly and that it would be useful for people's health, we are having a dispute here today. I think that, therefore, from a constitutional point of view too, it is extremely dangerous in such a situation where there is no broad consensus that something is at risk, where, on the contrary, we may think that some reform, by amending the law that you are trying to enforce in the regime of legislative emergency, is essentially creating a threat, the exact opposite of what it should be for. And the threat here is for two and a half million people, two and a half million seniors and their families. Let me give you an example. The Ministry of Finance says that the economy of the state is at risk of recession next year. But this is a matter of ongoing economic debate, which is being held everywhere in Europe, that too fast cuts in state budgets can lead to freezing, preserving, freezing economies. At the same time, Minister Stanjura in Questions Václav Moravec said that the state budget will be able to offset pensions unchanged. That means there's a legitimate debate that this isn't a disaster, let alone a natural one. This is a question that you can make the situation difficult or help it with one move. And that is the debate that we need to have, and we do not need a legislative emergency for that. Rather, it will prevent other opinions being said, for alternatives to be said, which I think is the role of Parliament. That is why I also appeal to the coalition and also to the Prime Minister to properly explain the need for a legislative emergency. This is the first time we've been in a different situation than the last. We're making clear arguments here. It's not just that we want to talk on a microphone. We simply have real concerns, and we formulate them for others, such as economists, trade unions, citizens of this country, and we want to talk about it. We represent a large part of the electorate here. We do not want space for such a fundamental debate to be reduced because we will bear the consequences of this next year. So I hope the Prime Minister will answer us. The Minister of Finance argues for an impact on public finances. But he doesn't care at all and he doesn't even care about the material presented, the impact of trying to save some 20 billion crowns into households, some groups of socially weak ones, those who, by their own efforts, will no longer improve their situation. And that's not just rhetoric. Here are some, as I said before, two and a half million pensioners who will be affected by this decision. Does anyone know what happens to these people, these families? I assure you that, in a number of Western European countries, similar proposals are accompanied even today by an analysis of how these savings will affect the lives of these people. And I asked the Minister here, I told him: you are still talking about budgetary stability, but there is no indication or indication in the texts you are presenting, nor any indication of an analysis of how this measure will come into the lives of the people involved. I asked the Minister what measures you have already taken, what you have done for all of this, that as the first proposal for bailing out the state budget deficit, you are touching money to the weakest and most vulnerable. There is even one party in your coalition that calls itself KDU who says that she would like to be a party to socialism and that she would even want to be a party in government that would be socially sensitive. At least that's how many of you had it on billboards, either to the Senate or to the Chamber of Deputies. So I'm asking, how is it that you don't care about saving 20 billion here, and we're supposed to approve it in an accelerated regime, and no one has any idea what it's going to do to people? There's no analysis. You've made an exception for the analysis. So we're having a really hypothetical conversation here, all of it, all of it, what impact it can have on these social layers. These proposals of similar laws in Western Europe are accompanied by impact analyses as a standard. They're just not here. Once again, you dare to present a law to the House that doesn't even have these implications quantified. So logically, I have to ask if the government has any ambition at all to deal with how these people's lives will turn out. So once again, I ask, very politely, Members of the KDU: do you agree, you agree, that we really go through it in this way, that we are not really going to talk about it here, 20 billion just like that, it's going through the chimney? What's next? I would appeal to you that if you want to agree to this procedure, you should consider that there are thousands of people involved in these laws. It's not just a text. It's not just a piece of paper. Those are the things that really fall into our parents' lives. Our parents. The life of seniors. Each side is a party that has a certain program, certain ideas, certain beliefs. But no party can think that he's right all over and that he's got it in his pocket. It may be possible that a political coalition will be established that governs, but that coalition should always be aware that it is moving in a political environment where other opinions also exist. And Parliament is where the other views need to be heard. And with fundamental laws like this, find an agreement across the political spectrum. You are sitting here in the coalition 108 and you are all responsible for what you are voting for. If there were a proper legislative process, if there were proper committees, because if there were first reading, it would be ordered to committees, it could be discussed more, more committees. All of you here could argue with what would be said on those committees both from the coalition and from the opposition. How many times have we been here to convince ourselves that committees are really the platform where the relevant laws should be communicated. You could have heard the arguments, you could have heard the doubts, and you had the opportunity to deal with it somehow with your arguments and prove that you know what you're doing, that you have analyses that say confirm why you're proposing it and what you're suggesting. Instead, you choose to limit this debate by driving the law through a so-called state of legislative emergency. That means you're going to deprive this law of the possibility of first reading. It's just that there's only going to be second and third reading. The five-calice parties went to the elections with the motto of democracy. That's what we've heard on every corner. That's what you were trying to do, at least that's what you said, so there's freedom in this country to express, talk, debate. Democracy is a debate. And Parliament is the high ground in this debate. But you are not interested in this discussion based on what you are doing. I just want to remind you what you said to the voters and what you got votes for. You yourself said you wanted to be socially sensitive in your policy. In your programs, you're worried about the weakest. Even right-wing parties say they want to take care of the weakest. And today, you're proposing a law that goes down to two and a half million to three million seniors, basically the poorest families. And you're not even willing to justify it. You're not even willing to think about what these people are gonna do, if you have any idea what's going to happen to them. I'm just a little demonstration of that, because I believe that you, too, have literally watered up and flooded your mailboxes with letters from desperate seniors. A lady wrote to me who said she was saving up for many years with her husband, and because they were assured that she would join the elderly, and even of course in the media, they were assured that high inflation would lead to extraordinary valorization, and this is what we've been hearing since autumn, so she and her husband have taken the liberty of getting a treatment bath. And the mistress, desperately, tells me that, given that she knew what could happen here at all, and that she really doubted that she was living in a legal state, but if she knew that she wouldn't have had any such stay with her husband, because she's afraid, given her age, that they would have lived without any reserve. [[21.20 hours]] So one more time. Today, the parties to the government coalition in the House in a state of legislative emergency want to abolish the legal valorisation of pensions, and this is a retroactive one. And you don't care about the opposition's opinion. It's good to keep saying that. It is good for everyone in this country to hear this, so that everyone knows how laws are being dealt with in this country, laws that will affect millions of people. Let me do a little recap. The government is addressing the state budget deficit in this process today. Deficit. And now it needs to be said whether we are really all aware here in the Chamber of Deputies that there is probably a mistake. And it would probably be legitimate to admit that mistake. How is it that the finance minister didn't put money in the state budget or the proper valorization, let alone the extraordinary one? I understand that from his point of view today, when he's missing 35 billion there, it's a big amount, that it's not completely negligible anymore. All the more I was struck by his performance on Sunday's questions when he said that a robust budget would handle it. So why are we doing this in a state of legislative emergency? Why don't you take this step back? Why don't we open up a legitimate parliamentary debate over this law? We have already offered several times, and I would also like to appreciate the words of Minister Jurečka, who responded in a factual remark that he is pleased that we want to debate. Come on, let's talk. Let's debate! After all, you must be aware that if you wanted to cancel the extraordinary valorization this year, it was a retroactivity. Let's talk completely legit about the need to adjust this valorisation formula for 2024, 2025, 2026 and so on. At the same time, I do not understand the words of Minister Stanjura, who says that this would have huge implications for the budget. So I have to ask logically: does the government expect such inflation in 2024, 2025 and 2026? Isn't the government really going to do anything about this high inflation? Because if the government responds that it obviously wants to do something about it and that the government's goal is to reduce such high inflation, we can't talk here about the huge effects in 2024, 2025 and 2026. The impact would only be that it would bind to the increased base of CZK 1,700. But that's all. That means the government must have a major objective to reduce such extraordinary valorisation. We also discussed that we should probably tell our seniors why the government is making this the first step of everything. Why doesn't the government prepare a package of measures to help themselves to the state budget? But there can't be only seniors in that package of measures. How come you're not worried about restitution? Why don't we take it in one block? Why don't we sit down with the opposition - coalitions, opposition - and say: we need to adjust more things? [[We won't say]] Let's talk about a valuation scheme for both restituents and pensioners since 2024. But we can't do this retroactively. Other steps that are and that I didn't get an answer to. The Minister admitted that he forgot to ask the European Union for CZK 53 billion or CZK 54 billion. So has the Minister asked the European Union for 54 billion? If so, he increased his budget in 2023. And I ask: 54 minus 35 billion - the Minister will be left with. So why are we talking about taking money from our seniors? At the same time, there is another option that is too much to do. And I've already suggested it here. Let's set an example. Let's talk about pay, freeze politicians' salaries at such a difficult time. And let's be the first to set an example. And it's not like we're gonna add money here, 'cause we've just been frozen for one year. And logically, the percentages are, of course, very higher. And when you compare it to those seniors who really have very low pensions, you have to admit that it's unfair. Why don't you prepare measures here to reduce the number of government members? That simply the Minister for European Affairs may have had grounds for the Presidency. But now? Anyone in the House see him? Does anyone see him working actively on any tasks? Well, it's not like that. And yet we're looking for every crown. But we can't start by really getting into the weakest in our society. If I were to sum it up, we need to reminisce here and realize again what we've put on our seniors. So first I'll start that from 1. 1. 2023 raised payments for social services. Who's using the social services? Our seniors. And we'll take their money. We're gonna raise their social services, but we're gonna take their money to pay them back. At the same time, we're talking about the fact that our seniors, of course, their consumer basket, the pensioners, and the inflation, are the ones that are the ones that are most affected. Food prices have increased, medicines have increased, housing costs have increased, including energy, but transport costs have, of course, increased. Seniors have to commute to doctors, social services, or some activities. With our second breath, Minister Válek, we say that prevention is the basis that we want our seniors to live as long as possible in health. How in God's name are they supposed to do this prevention thing if they can't even afford to go on a regular tour today, let alone go to some spa? I ask you again to think about what we are doing here to end this undignified debate so that we can actually build some systemic measures to combat such high inflation, so that the valorisation in the coming years does not kill us, but to remain the legal one. And please, let's not do this on the way that we just attack the weakest. That's what they say about the character of all of us. Because attacking the weakest is an easy way, but from my point of view, the worst. How are we supposed to discuss a state of legislative emergency with you when, from our point of view, there is no state of legislative emergency? None of these criteria are met. And I'm afraid this debate really doesn't step on the better political culture you're talking about. Let's look our seniors in the eye boldly and say yes, we've re-evaluated it, we'll sit at the same table. Given the state budget, we need to adjust this for years to come. But let's not create uncertainty in them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u259	Mr Radim Fiala, followed by Minister Jurečka. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u260	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, I have been told by people that they are very interested in the passage that President Okamura called here between 17.20 and 18.35 and that they would like to hear it again. But don't worry, I'll text them where to find her. I won't say it again. Since this is a legislative emergency, I will not talk directly about pensions and things that we will discuss when we open this meeting. But allow me to take a short excursion just until the adoption of laws in a legislative emergency, until the use of legislative emergency in the Czech Chamber of Deputies, and how legislative emergency should probably be used or not. Allow me to begin with one bonmot attempt. The Government argued in its proposal for an amendment to the Pension Insurance Act relating to the special-purpose and social changes to the remuneration scheme for pensions by arguing that the allegedly unexpected increase in inflation and the resulting increased entitlement to cover the statutory valuation would cause significant economic damage. [[21.30 hours]] I don't know. The Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura then publicly stated in Sunday's Questions to Václav Moravec that even in the current state budget, money for pension valorization will be found, even if this government amendment is not adopted, i.e. that it will find money in the budget without amending itself, to valorize pensions according to the current and effective pension insurance law. It can therefore be said that the most fundamental argument yet to reject the use of the state of legislative emergency for the discussion of the government amendment to the pension law and for rejecting the amendment as such was put forward by the Minister of Finance of the current government, and I would like to thank him publicly for that. Because we will certainly use this statement in our possible constitutional complaint against this amendment if the government coalition accidentally pushed it through the legislative process. And now, to the substance of the matter, the issue of the state of legislative emergency. This issue cannot logically be separated from its broader constitutional contexts. Each state's constitutional right is based on the definition of the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens, and the constitutional regulation of fundamental rights and freedoms is determined primarily by the factual possibilities of this state regulation and the resources available to the State. Moreover, the constitutional regulation of fundamental rights and freedoms must operate in accordance with other normative systems, such as morality, ethics, justice, social traditions, etc. The core of the vast majority of the constitution is the constitutional regulation of the relationship between public authority and individual. Our Constitution does not specify this relationship directly, especially because it has failed to reach agreement on any relevant amendments to the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. Therefore, a compromise solution has been adopted, according to which this Charter is not directly part of the Constitution, but is part of the so-called constitutional order. However, this does not change the legal nature of the regulation of fundamental rights and freedoms. Thus, the Charter is not only a Charter of Fundamental Rights but also a Charter of Freedoms. It also often confuses the concepts of law and freedom. It is therefore necessary to understand in the Charter the provisions which give rise to certain rights of citizens towards the State. Freedoms are then linked to the definition of autonomous spaces in which the State should not, or the public power to intervene, such as property, privacy and the like. Another difference between rights and freedoms is that, in the case of fundamental rights, it is necessary to point to their anchoring in the constitutional regulation, whereas this is not necessary in the case of freedoms. Individual rights are then based on legislation and must be demonstrated in order to apply them to public authorities. On the contrary, in the case of freedom, the public authority should prove that the law prohibits individuals from acting or, on the contrary, commands them to do so. The Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms is created on the natural legal concept of fundamental rights, as evidenced by its preamble, which explicitly emphasises the recognition of the inviolability of the natural rights of a person and of the rights of a citizen. It also mentions the generally shared values of humanity. And now we will move on to the constitutionally-legal description, the analysis of the assumptions and conditions of the so-called state of legislative emergency, which we are talking about here in connection with the amendment to the Act on Pensions, and the so-called shortened legislative process, which, by its decision, provided for the discussion of the amendment to the Act on Pension Insurance by the President of the House, Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová. The negotiation of a draft law or its amendment to a short-term act in a state of legislative emergency constitutes a statutory exception to a proper legislative procedure, the justification of which is based solely on the gravity of the situation which, in the Government's view, must be immediately addressed by the adoption of a law or by its amendment. Thus, not in the mere opinion of the government, or even in the vote by the current House of the majority. Such circumstances and reasons, however, did not occur in relation to the amendment to the Pension Insurance Act. And perhaps the Minister Stanjura confirmed this unintendedly in the questions already mentioned by Václav Moravec, as I demonstrated at the beginning of this speech. Paragraph 99 (2) (a) is replaced by the following: By defining the reasons for declaring a state of legislative emergency, the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies did not limit the application of this procedure to certain specified circumstances, but determined the intensity of their seriousness. This shortened conduct is thus conditional on the existence of exceptional circumstances and the intensity of possible negative consequences in the case of a standard negotiation of a draft law to one of the generally defined protected values, namely the rights and freedoms of citizens, the security of the State or the protection of property. As an exceptional circumstance within the meaning of the Constitutional Court's finding, only a circumstance which is clearly out of the ordinary course of political processes internal and external, or a circumstance such as natural disasters or epidemics may be considered, I add. And you know that the SPD never questioned the use of the Institute of Legislative Emergency whenever it was necessary in case of an epidemic of covid-19 to promptly approve any measures to help citizens, businessmen or firms. There was a clear reason and decision every day. In the case of government efforts to reduce the extraordinary valorisation of pensions, there is no reasonable or legal reason. Does the government think that raising pensions is some kind of natural or other disaster? Does aid to citizens, many of whom, according to recent sociological surveys, live below or near the income poverty threshold, regard as damage to the state budget? If so, that's terrifying for me. The justification for declaring a state of legislative emergency must then also be assessed in the light of the time of decision-making and the scope of the information available at this time. It is also necessary to measure the intensity of the reasons for the state of legislative emergency in relation to the limitations of the constitutional principles concerned. It must be clearly and without any doubt clear what specific consequences, according to the government, are at risk for the values defined in this provision. Thus, in our particular case, it is a statement that justifies the conclusion on the threat of significant economic damage, whether we would compensate our pensioners for the rising prices, as the law so far says. I feel that no economic damage would arise, on the contrary, that a lot of pensioners, a lot of seniors would just have money for either food, medicine or rent. That's all that matters. None of this has been told by the government, and declaring a state of legislative emergency is simply a mockery of the constitution, the law and, in our view, an absolute outrage. In its findings, the Constitutional Court clearly states that it cannot be considered as sufficient reason to limit constitutional principles relating to the legislative process without further reference to a general and hypothetical risk based on no specific data, such as a reference such as that any failure to adopt a draft law could have a negative impact on the budget deficit, on the evaluation of credit rating agencies or international financial markets. And I add that the government is no helpless witness to budgetary events that are not natural laws, but that it is an institution that has all the tools in its hands to effectively combat the growing budget deficit on both the part of public income and public expenditure, without having to rob our seniors, disabled people, widows, widows or orphans. Each legislative process takes time. However, Parliament must be prepared for a situation where the legislative process needs to be accelerated. None of us are questioning that. But at the same time, we are strongly opposed to the abuse of this instrument, as the five-calice government is doing. And he doesn't do it for the first time. [[21.40 hours]] The Institute of Legislative Emergency was introduced into the House's Rules of Procedure at its very first adoption in 1995 because it was clear to all that a situation could arise, which is clearly given, clearly determined by three basic things, when in an accelerated process it would be necessary to adopt an amendment to the law in order to avoid significant damage. The Constitution contains no details concerning the length and procedure of the legislative process in the Chamber of Deputies. The Constitution does not regulate the number of readings or the time limit for the examination of the draft law in committees. The only detail of the parliamentary legislative process that the Constitution regulates is the 30-day suspension period within which the Senate has to discuss the law. For this reason, the Constitution did not contain any institutes for shortening the legislative process, as this would prevent future legal regulation. At the time of the adoption of the Constitution in 1992, there was no law on the security of the Czech Republic, which had taken over the Institute of accelerated negotiations for inspiration from the House's Rules of Procedure into the constitutional text, with the fact that, in the case referred to in the Constitutional Security Act, when an emergency was declared, legislative emergency had not been declared, and yet a shortened negotiation of the bill could have been held. Short-term legislative negotiations have been introduced in the context of emergencies - a state of war and a state of danger - directly by the constitution, because it contains a shortening of that constitutional, Senate 30-day deadline. This regulation of short-term conduct at constitutional level had no bearing on what the legislative process should look like in other cases. It did not modify provisions which would imply that, in other, normal cases, the legislative process could not be shortened or could be reduced. By the amendment of the Constitution in 1999, emergency situations were designed to regulate the accelerated negotiations so that it was not necessary in these cases to declare a legislative emergency in advance. In fact, the general procedural regulation of the accelerated negotiations has been simplified to cases of external security. In doing so, account has been taken of the past practice, which was based on the fact that, if a very rigidly revised state of legislative emergency is adopted, the accelerated negotiations in emergency situations could also be applied for the purpose of the State's security. The Constitutional Act on Security of the Czech Republic thus took advantage of the knowledge with the application of the state of legislative emergency and shortened negotiations and anchored it in a modified form into a constitutional amendment. The state of the legislative emergency following the adoption of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, in 1995, was therefore the only instrument for the accelerated process, except in the case of the adoption of the Act on the basis of a decision of the Security Council, when there was no need to declare the state of the legislative emergency at all. It should also be noted that the Rules of Procedure introduced three new laws in 1995 and thus the legislative process was considerably extended. Today, we know that the legislative process for the adoption of the law, including the approval of the Senate and the signature of the President, may take eleven months. At that time, however, there was no Senate. The length of the legislative process did not bring such great difficulty, because the laws of the Chamber of Deputies acted directly to the President of the Republic. Yet, in 1995, the state of legislative emergency was used. In addition to the state of legislative emergency, it was possible to shorten the legislative process in another way, which has limited possibilities after the Senate was established. As today, it was possible to shorten the 60-day deadline for the discussion of proposals in committees with the agreement of the appellant to one day. It was also possible to discuss the bill in three readings at a single meeting of the House. Until the Senate existed, it was possible to discuss, approve the Government's bill within a few days. In 2000, the Institute was accepted to agree with the draft law at first reading by amending Section 90 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, which states in paragraph 2: At the same time as the draft law, the proposer may propose to the House that the draft law be approved at first reading. The justification for such a bill must be given in the explanatory memorandum. If the reason is the implementation of the obligations arising from the contracts by which the Czech Republic is bound, the petitioner will submit a full translation of the legal standards to be implemented. However, this institute, if proposed, can be vetoed by two parliamentary clubs in contrast to the state of legislative emergency. This is a fundamental difference and also an essential instrument for protecting the parliamentary minority and citizens, which it represents against the will of the parliamentary majority. Such a defence instrument does not contain a state of legislative emergency, and therefore it is necessary to treat it with high caution and not abuse it. Some parliaments in Europe, such as Germany, have limited the state of legislative emergency to just a few attempts during the parliamentary term, such as two or three. Under the Rules of Procedure of the House, the Government shall invite the President of the House to declare a state of legislative emergency for a certain period of time. The Chamber of Deputies must confirm, abolish or limit the state of legislative emergency. However, the President of the House may reject the Government's proposal to discuss the government's proposals in an accelerated negotiation and may not allow legislative emergency law to be negotiated. So it's also partly up to the President if she admits to negotiating legislation in a legislative emergency - she has already admitted - so the House will vote. [[He's turning to the chair.]] And I say, Madame Pekarová, Adamová, that is also a challenge for you. Don't you want to make a positive entry into the history of Czech parliamentarianism? The House may also refuse to discuss the law in a legislative emergency by not confirming in the vote at the beginning of the meeting that the situation persists. On this point, the President of the House shall open a debate in which Members may comment, may put forward various procedural proposals, voting on all these proposals by the House. Before discussing each draft law, the House shall decide in the vote whether there are conditions for short-term negotiations. If she finds that the conditions have passed, the bill cannot be dealt with in this way. On this point too, a debate is open. In a state of legislative emergency, only a government proposal based on government legislative rules can be discussed, and a detailed analysis of the legal and factual situation must be preceded by this proposal. Has all this been complied with in the case of the amendment to the Pension Insurance Act? Well, it doesn't look like it yet. The enormous risk of a state of legislative emergency, as we see it literally live, is the ease of abuse of this institute, because it does not allow the parliamentary opposition, i.e. Members who are currently in a minority, to block negotiations on the bill, as is the case with the proper negotiation of the bill at first reading. The state of legislative emergency was originally designed for a completely different purpose than the force of government's repression of controversial and debatable proposals, namely, for the adoption of non-conflict bills in exceptional circumstances, when it was necessary to act quickly - yes, right, in exceptional circumstances - proposals on which political and social consensus prevails. Is this the case of a motion to reduce pension valorisation? No way. Every judicial person must acknowledge that the draconian restrictive conditions of the state of legislative emergency for discussing the bill, which is designed to significantly limit the social rights of our seniors and their standard of living, is far beyond the principles of democracy and the rule of law. [[21.50 hours]] The constitutional conformity of the legislative process in view of declaring a state of legislative emergency has already been dealt with several times by our Constitutional Court. The drafters of individual constitutional complaints most often saw the abuse of the institute of legislative emergency in that the conditions for its publication were not met under the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, which they considered not only as a violation of this law but also as a violation of the parliamentary procedure establishing an unconstitutional way of adopting the law. The announcement of a state of legislative emergency in the relevant complaints was then identified as a political, not neutral legal instrument and a limitation of the general or detailed debate as a significant restriction on the freedom of expression of Members and the freedom of parliamentary debate. In the decision by the Constitutional Court in 2011, the amendment of Act No. 347/2010 Coll., which amends certain laws in the context of austerity measures under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, has also been pointed out by foreign case-law dealing with a number of constitutional democratic principles of the legislative process, which must be followed by the legislature. In the finding, the Constitutional Court once again stated the principles that the legislature must respect when examining draft laws. They include, above all, respect for procedural rules or, if you want procedural rules. The Constitutional Court states - I quote: "Only in a process flawless process, a legal and constitutionally consistent outcome can be obtained in constitutionally consistent proceedings, i.e. a decision, and therefore the procedural purity of the decision-making process of the proceedings needs to be given increased attention and to provide it with strong protection." That is why I dare to come up with this and actually discuss it in such a thorough way here, because it is clear that if there were an abuse of the institute of legislative emergency, we would probably have met at the Constitutional Court, probably, and for that reason, I am also calling attention to the judiciary of the Constitutional Court, which says what will be considered in the event of a violation of the legislative emergency. "Therefore, in the legislative process, the requirement of permanence, persuasion and the necessity of legal acts, on which the rule of law and the combined life of citizens rests. However, such acts and also the achievement of the necessary authority of the legislatures cannot be achieved by any other means than by respect for the rules, i.e. the principles of legislative activity, which the Chamber of Deputies, as an important legislator, established by law for this activity." End of quote. Let us bear this in mind today and avoid the risk of a later abolition of today's amendment by the Constitutional Court, in addition to the reasons of content for procedural reasons, i.e. for the reasons we are discussing today, that is to say, the use of the Institute of Legislative Emergency. Parliamentary opposition, which does not participate directly in the exercise of state power and is in a minority in Parliament, must be allowed to exercise its constitutionally guaranteed rights in view of the constitution guaranteed by the principle of protection of minorities. It must not be prevented from exercising the function of parliamentary opposition. As the Constitutional Court finds, the present - and I quote - the presence of the opposition also forces a coherent government majority to explain and justify their decisions based on a free exchange of views and opinions in order to seek a wider consensus and, where appropriate, to remedy the shortcomings of the proposed law. That's what this is all about. That's what the journalists asked us: "Why are you going to talk for so long? Because we want to convince the government coalition that this law can be adopted otherwise, that we can achieve some kind of compromise and that we do not have to reduce or slow down the valorisation of our seniors' pensions, because they will lose quite a lot of money, one third, and that, of course, we don't think it's okay. The opposition also has the right to block or delay decisions taken by the majority, as well as the right to seek constitutional review of decisions and laws adopted. That's probably what we're gonna do. If the government's majority pushes this law, we will, of course, give it to the Constitutional Court to investigate whether, for example, there has been an abuse of the state of legislative emergency. The level of protection of the rights of the opposition, regardless of whether it is politically constituted at the moment in order to fulfil its irreplaceable function, is an indicator of the level of political and parliamentary culture and is also an expression of the degree of democraticity of the political system in question. Yes, the fact that we can talk here today and that we can talk here for so long is due to the Law on Rules of Procedure, and it is, as the Constitutional Court directly says, an expression of the degree of democraticity of the political system in question. So I just want to point out that, again today, the government coalition is calling on it to amend the Rules of Procedure Act, to prevent the opposition from discussing here and to prevent what I have just quoted here from happening at the Constitutional Court. So once again for the government coalition: it is also an expression of the degree of democratism of the political system. The rights of the parliamentary opposition therefore include the guarantee of the right of active representation in the debate and the guarantee of the possibility to influence the parliamentary meeting agenda under discussion, which should not just be in the hands of the government majority. That's important. I think it is really important that I read the Constitutional Court's case-law here, so that the ruling five-calice also know that the opposition has its place in the Chamber of Deputies, and that it is important, and I repeat, is an expression of the level of political parliamentary culture and the degree of democraticity of the political system. There is always a limitation or reduction in the rights of the parliamentary opposition in the application of the Institute of Legislative Emergency. That's important, too. Once again: There is always a restriction or a reduction in the rights of the parliamentary opposition in the application of the Institute of Legislative Emergency. This is all the more serious when it comes to a proposal with so far-reaching implications for the situation of millions of citizens, such as the amendment to the approval of pensions. The constitutionalist, therefore, decided, and the guardian of constitutionality the Constitutional Court confirms this, this possibility to admit only in extreme, really extraordinary situations. The Constitutional Court therefore urges a very restrictive interpretation of the conditions and circumstances leading to the use of the Institute of Legislative Emergency in dealing with bills. The draft law, which the Government requires in the shortened legislative process, must therefore be an appropriate means of averting any harm or endangering the public interest. I am convinced that our seniors are neither a threat to the public interest nor a threat to the public interest, which is absolutely not true in the case of the amendment to the Pension Insurance Act. Absolutely not! On the contrary. Its approval goes against the public interest, against the principle of the predictability of law and against the principle of the legal and economic protection of socially endangered groups of citizens, which the seniors are undoubtedly. An obstacle to the abuse of the Institute of Legislative Emergency is merely the legal definition of the reasons on the basis of which this situation can be declared. According to the Constitutional Court, these reasons must be consistent with the Constitution and must be reviewed. By the way, the Constitutional Court also did not recognise the potential threat of obstruction of opposition Members as an exceptional condition within the meaning of the House's Rules of Procedure, which justifies the use of the state of legislative emergency. In other words, if the ruling coalition would use the institute of legislative emergency because it fears that the opposition will obstruct, which has already happened in the past, it has not succeeded in the Constitutional Court. It didn't succeed. The opposition has its right, its rights, and the Constitutional Court has acknowledged it. [[2.00 hours]] If the opposition objects to non-compliance with the standard legislative procedure for the adoption of new laws, no element of extraordinaryness can be seen in these objections. That means what we're doing now. We're objecting here, explaining why, in our opinion, the legislative emergency is wrong in applying this law, I've been doing this for a long time, I'm explaining it here in the adoption of this law. And the Constitutional Court makes that clear. Once again: If the opposition raises objections to non-compliance with the standard legislative procedure in adopting new laws, this means a normal legislative process with three readings, no element of extraordinaryness can be seen in these objections. The opposition, according to the Constitutional Court, in this case, merely exercised its right to protect its rights in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Because the opposition, if you want to accept this in a legislative emergency, in our opinion, there is no reason for it, and if you shorten the process, the opposition, according to the Constitutional Court, is losing its rights to intervene and discuss in individual readings of the legislative process. In the light of the above arguments, it is clear that the negotiation of an amendment to the Act on Pension Insurance under the regime of legislative emergency is contrary to constitutional principles, constitutional practice and the case law of the Constitutional Court, which I consider to be extremely serious. So the best solution to this unsustainable situation is to discuss this government proposal properly in three readings, or to reject it directly. As the Constitutional Court has repeatedly stated, it is not enough to examine only whether there has been a breach of the rules of procedure of the two chambers of Parliament or of other procedural rules in order to assess whether the legislation was adopted by law. The function of the Constitutional Court is mainly the protection of constitutionality and therefore it has to assess whether the Constitution of the Czech Republic has also complied with the requirements for the adoption of the law. In this case, this is the question of the retroactivity of the present law, the principle of legal certainty and legitimate expectations of the addressees of legal standards, but also the protection of the social rights of pensioners, which are the fundamental human rights that I was talking about here at the beginning of my speech, and the protection of the rights to exercise the parliamentary mandate of each Member, whether in a coalition or in opposition. The exercise of the legislative procedure must take into account a number of constitutional principles, in particular the principles of the division of power, pluralism, free competition of political forces, the principle of representative democracy based on the free exercise of the mandate and equality of Members of Parliament, freedom of expression and free parliamentary debate, the principle of majority decision-making and the inseparable principle of protection of minorities, which is represented by us on parliamentary ground, the parliamentary opposition. These fundamental principles also include the originally natural rule of law to hear all parties, and finally the requirement of public and transparent deliberation of the law. The Institute limits or relativizes all these constitutional principles and therefore the conditions for its application must be interpreted very strictly. The state of legislative emergency can therefore be used only for situations that are clearly and significantly out of line at first sight with the normal course of political processes and political disputes between the government and the opposition. The existence of such an exceptional serious situation must have a reasonable basis and must be supported by clear facts. Ladies and gentlemen, our movement does not happen to have freedom and democracy in its name. These are fundamental values for us, as well as respect for the Constitution. I have repeatedly quoted here from the findings of the Constitutional Court, which are a binding source of law, and I am actually convinced that the most sensible thing we should do now is to abolish the state of legislative emergency. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u261	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, have a good evening. We are now continuing with priority rights. President Schillerová has been applied for. Yes. The Minister isn't here, so it's your turn yet. Before I give the floor to the President, Josef Kott apologizes from 22.00 to 6.00 hours for medical reasons, and the President is followed by Minister Jurečka with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u262	This is unbelievable! I, of course, have my performances prepared, but is it incredible that the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, the Vice Prime Minister of this government, who is the promoter for the rule of this pasquila of unconstitutional nature, will not even come here to simply introduce us to this law? To present it to us? [[A round of applause for a part of Members.]] Are you kidding me? Are you kidding me? I'm sorry, Madam Vice-President, but I know it's my turn now, but I just think that the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs should come forward. I don't understand why he's not here. I didn't notice an apology. If I didn't hear her, I'm sorry, but that's incredible. He's going to stand before the Chamber of Deputies here. I know he made some factual remarks during the morning, but that's not the same thing. He has to submit and justify this law. So, please, if you could just make amends, and he here transferred to the Chamber of Deputies, and he just had complete information about this bill for us. I just don't understand that you're just gonna tell me he's not here and come talk. But we want to talk to him. [[A round of applause for a part of Members.]] We want to hear his opinions. So if there's anything we can do to prevent me from making unnecessary procedural suggestions here, if there's any way we can agree that you're gonna call the Minister to come forward properly?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u263	As far as I know, the Minister is counting on a performance. That's right, colleagues and colleagues nod. And most of the time, if someone is logged in and not present, the application is moved to the end of the priority rights. Madam President, we'll try to get ahold of the Minister. I'll ask my colleagues to do so. So if I can give you some space to make your contribution, and then it's signed up for the debate... The minister has run out.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u264	The minister is already here, so I'm sure I'm gonna let him in front of me because I'm wondering what he's gonna tell us if that's possible now that I see him in the O.R.?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u265	It's okay. Minister, you are logged in, please, with priority right for the debate. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u266	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President, fellow Members, I am glad that, finally, this debate is coming to some level not only of factual or extremely long speeches, but also of a plane which concerns both the issue of legislative emergency and the substance of the draft law. I was here this morning to make it clear what the procedure and the reasons were, and so I'm going to recapitulate here, and I'm also going to add to what the differences are compared to the state that was here in 2011, and the related finding of the Constitutional Court. Because when we received information from the Czech Statistical Office on 10 February this year, it was obvious that the original expectations and assumptions and predictions had changed significantly. [[22.10 hours]] I mentioned here and also in the public media, during November, December and January, that we expect an extraordinary valuation in 2023, that the estimate of the increase in pensions will be somewhere between 700 and 1,000 crowns. I also said that the estimated impact on the state budget would be somewhere up to CZK 20 billion. However, this published issue of the CZSO for inflation for January, which means the significant increase in inflation between December and January, has put us in a position where the demands on the state budget really have a great impact not only for 2023, but also for those years to come. And I want to pause on that, because it is really, like, very important for understanding why it is so important to adjust those parameters for June, why it is so important that we can discuss this and this draft amendment of the law came out in the Collection of Laws by 22 March at the latest. Because we are not really talking about the impact of CZK 34.4 billion this year, but when this decision is implemented, pensions will be increased in this amount, so this is the moment that means that for the next years for all these people, this is the mandatorial expenditure, which is CZK 5.8 billion per year in 2024. This amount will certainly also be valued in the future and we are creating here for the next approximately 21.5 years, depending on the average time the old-age pension is paid, a mandatory expenditure with which no one will make any parametric adjustment. I have also heard some opposition colleagues asking me both today and in recent days and saying: Isn't it possible to let the June run out and then somehow prove the funds for the state budget to at least partially recover by adjusting those future valorisations? That's just not possible. And that is the impact on the public finances, which is really in the dimension of the significant economic situation, as the legislative emergency refers to, the state of significant economic damage in relation to the impact on the state budget. It has never been, it has never been meant to be, that the question of pension payments and people who receive that this is some kind of economic damage. No way. But if we look at the expenses that we're going to take out of that state budget once and for all, we don't have covered income on social security contributions, so we're really going to burden that deficit in a huge way. However, this proposal also clearly states that pensions will be increased in June, will be increased by CZK 760, and what is very important to point out is that the increase also includes the important element where there is a fixed amount of CZK 400 for all without distinction of the previous pension granted. That means it's the solidarity element that helps stop the scissors opening between low- and high-income pensioners, and then it's the 2,3% increase that leaves the part of it merit. It's a combination of both of these elements. This means, for people who have a pension of approximately CZK 8,150, yes, it is a very small set, so there is a really higher increase in pensions than there would be today's valorisation scheme, and for those with lower below-average pensions there is a higher percentage increase in those pensions than in those with higher and highest income pensions. That's obvious in this proposal. When it comes to some comparison of data, I was here today publishing a graph, but I think it's good to really remember the development. [[It's showing a graph.]] When we look at it, in 2018, the average income from the average wage in this country was 39 percent. And here we see the years 2019, 2020, 2021, 2022, and here we see 2023. At the moment even the reduced, modified valuation takes place, so we get over 50 percent, and it's obvious that this is a very high increase in pensions, it's 31 percent per year and a half, it's an increase of 31 percent. If we look at it, and what Minister Stanjura was talking about again, we can compare it, here it is based not on average, but here it is for a clean wage. Here we see that we're getting to the 62 percent limit, and here the increase from 2021 to 2032 is really enormous, you see this increase here, which is actually after the four valorizations that have already taken place, plus the fifth one that awaits us. Of course, I have also looked at some neighbouring countries. If we look at the amount of average income in Slovakia, it is also worth looking at. So here it is obvious that Slovakia is in this respect and in this comparison quite significantly behind us, that is, in 2021, the average Slovak income in relation to average wages, so it was 41 percent, it fell to 40 percent in Slovakia and now it has a level of 45 percent. This is also possible to compare. Here I have looked at an absolute comparison of the amount of income from data, which of course are not currently in the last months, so perhaps then the Czech Republic is very interesting about it, when we relate to the average wage, there we are even a little bit better than in Germany, although the German pension system is really very much set differently, there are mechanisms of some say solidarity working significantly but significantly less than they work in our pension system. What I would also like to say here is that there is some kind of support for the facts without putting anyone against anyone else, but that is something that expresses the intergenerational solidarity, so it is a comparison of the average income against the average net per capita income in the family, in the household, where I have a household that has two children. [[It's showing another graph.]] When we look at it, the orange part of the columns, that's the amount of the average pension, and the blue part is the net income per head in the household that has the two kids. So here we see that really since 2022, the pensions are really outnumbering us in the impact on that household, those households that have parents and parents of two children. If we go back again to the recapitulation from the point of view of the impact and how it sounded here, I think it's really unfairly, disproportionately, when there were words about stealing from someone and everything, it's something that's really beyond what's actually going on here. I told you there'd be a 31 percent increase in a year and a half. If we look at it in absolute amounts, the increase in a year and a half is about CZK 5,000, we will cross the limit of CZK 20,000 on the average amount of pensions. When I also showed the distribution of the amount of pensions into the Czech society, the most frequently collected pension of CZK 21,000 shows us, and it was seen that the relatively balanced distribution of pensions below CZK 21,000, those above the fact that it is very evenly divided in the company, that these are all arguments that we actually have to consider in the context that we are standing here today with a proposal that is sitting here today in the Chamber of Deputies' Chamber of Deputies, with a proposal that has a primary ambition to reflect the situation of public finances, its effects not only for this year, but for those years to come. But at the same time, it is a proposal which, I think, is a balanced compromise, where pensions increase, we support the elderly who have the average and really very low pensions. We are changing the principle there, and I will, of course, be very happy with the opposition in the next days or two weeks to discuss not only pension reform, which I have announced that it will definitely take place in March, but also, of course, separately, about the adjustment that is to be applied to valorisation, because the current valorisations, on the one hand, are budgetaryly unsustainable if such high inflation even at some point in the future, and, above all, they really lead to the fact that, at a time of high inflation, we are very quickly opening those scissors between those high- and low-income seniors in terms of their standard of living and how they are able to cover the basic needs of life. [[22.20 hours]] What do I want to mention here from the point of view of legislative emergency? Here today, several times from the opposition, there were judicatures, which were here during the reign of Petr Nečas, at a time when the Constitutional Court in 2011 decided that he had made it clear by his finding that the legislative emergency at the time was inadmissible. But none of you said one important thing. The government then had the opportunity to do the reform package in due course and it would have made it, but they decided at the time, regardless of the fact that they were under some great time pressure, to follow the path of legislative emergency. And that's why the Constitutional Court found out about it. I also spoke to people who were very, let's say, up close at that time at the Constitutional Court hearing, and the situation is incomparable, because we are here in a situation where the significant change occurred on 10 February, since then the government has actually been acting and we have the time until 23 March. If I had much more time here, of course I'd be very happy not to have to put it in a state of legislative emergency and have this debate with these huge obstructions. But unfortunately, we don't have that kind of space here. And I have made it clear here that this year we had the ambition and goal of adjusting the valorisation scheme permanently, over the long term, so that the valorisation scheme would be set better with an instruction from 2022. We were counting on the extraordinary valuation, but in other amounts and other impacts on the state budget. And that change really happened with the output on inflation for January 2023. I think it's kind of like understandable procedures, the steps I'm presenting here. I'm sorry that some of the attacks that have been said here have really gone beyond any rationality and how we, as a government, were communicating at the time of the presidential campaign and beyond. I have not avoided topics that are not entirely pleasant, but which need to be communicated. I've been talking about the principles of pension reform all autumn, where it's supposed to go, that if we don't make pension reform, after 2035 we're going to have to focus on deficits in the pension system, which will mean the financial intensity of more than 300 billion crowns, which we just don't take out of the insurance, we're going to have to add them from the state budget, or we're going to have to logically limit expenditure from the state budget to other parts, whether it's social, health or investment in transport infrastructure. And it just needs to be done with the reform interventions, even if it's not pleasant. But we just can't, like politicians who see reality, see where it's going to go in the future, say we're just not gonna do it, that it's just gonna wait. It can't wait. I think it's fair to say against the generation of 40s today, 30s, 20s and youngers, there are just things that, even though they're not entirely pleasant at first listening, but they're important for the future to be fair, the predictability of the system, the provision of a decent pension, and I think it's just necessary to take these steps. I'll be very happy if this debate is really rational. He'll be significantly less emotional. I also looked at the minutes of the team that was led by Danuše Nerudová during the previous reign, and I also looked at the positions that were defended by individual experts and from the coalition parties at the time, both for YES and for ČSSD, or for SPD, so that we really had some continuity. I think that basically those principles on which we want to develop the parameters of the draft pension reform are actually based on what was already a consensus. So much for my performance. It is what I have been trying to concentrate on in one part, and that is the question of why the legislative emergency, why it is different than it was during the reign of Petr Nečas. We're in a different time frame, and we don't really have any other alternatives. But most of all, I've been trying to put the impact on public finances in the context here, on the fact that we're not really dealing with the year 2023 and we're dealing with really long years ahead, which at that point, in parametric terms, no one can change any adjustment in any way to reduce the mandatorial expenditure to the state budget. So if we really mean that the welfare of the people of the Czech Republic is at our heart, please don't say that someone is robbing someone. Because yes, each of us cares about our seniors having a good time. I think virtually every one of us has one of our parents or grandparents who's retired. And we also need to look at the fact that their children and their grandchildren will have to do well, and they either have to make money today and have the contributions in the social system, or they will have to do so someday in the future, and they will definitely have to pay these expenses, and they will have to pay them with interest. If there was a condition that this country has half a trillion crowns of reserves somewhere from previous years, then we can have fun that we will completely decide that we will simply put this amount into the system, we will put it into the future, but we do not have that situation here in this country today. Unfortunately, we don't have it. But we can't continue to prolong the deficit and increase the problem. We really need to make a rational move. And I also want to say and add, when there were all these things that the seniors say, so I have to say, I also have a lot of reactions, obviously I have negative reactions, I have neutral reactions, but I also have the reactions of people who tell me that they are old-age pensioners, and they say we even have a below-average pension. We can't jump out, but we're interested in what our kids and our grandchildren are gonna have to pay for one day, and we don't care. And if you can take rational measures, then do it now. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u267	Thank you. The Minister's speech raised a number of factual points. Mrs Peštová will be the first to speak, then Mr Nacher. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u268	Well, thank you for the floor, Madam President. Minister, as you quoted here in the Constitutional Court's 2011 finding, the government was under a lot of pressure. [[I didn't quote that.]] No, I'm saying you mentioned him here. He did. The government was under a lot of pressure, first of all, changing a lot more laws, and it was linked, of course, with drawing up a budget, and in that budget, it was already counting on the new laws to be in force. And we're talking about some November 2010, when she actually had less than two months by the end of the year, and she was supposed to accept all those amendments to the laws she was counting on. So all she did was draw up a bill budget that doesn't exist, and she didn't count on a valid legislation, so she was already violating the constitution, and more and more, and that's what I'm saying, that's in my speech, when we're gonna talk about what was in that constitutional finding. But I'm gonna go back to the show you had here. Now that you've been talking about what you've been telling me, why did you have zero in your budget for the valorization? That would be one question that I'm quite interested in, because that makes me doubt that it was a pure intention that you didn't want to pay any valorisation. Next, what inflation do you expect next year when the economic damage is due? So you're already predicting that inflation is going to be so high that it's going to cause you the economic damage you're saying here. And then another thing that interests me, when you put it in an interdepartmental commentary for two days, that means that you had to get some major comments back, and you settled it all on Saturday, Sunday, so you could vote per rollam on Monday? I wonder how you dealt with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u269	Thank you. Mr Nacher, Mr Balaštíková, will be prepared. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u270	Well, thank you, Madam Vice-President. Well, I didn't have the emotions, as we were asked by the Minister. I took notes. Good deadline, time pressure, system predictability. So I wanted to ask you without the emotions, first of all, what my colleague said here, there wasn't a crown in the budget for 2023 to valorize pensions, and we pointed it out here in our contributions. That means your assumption was that in that year it would be lower than five- or ten percent inflation, respectively? I mean, that was pretty clear in advance that it wasn't gonna be like this. That means you said you didn't know until February 10th. But the fact that inflation has been evolving as it develops has been clear since September, since October. That means it's the predictableness of the system you were talking about, I wrote it down. What's happening now, the use of a state of legislative emergency, is unpredictable, because if it were predictable, you're going to propose a change in the valorisation scheme at the end of the year, because you already know how this inflation is going to turn out for next year. I mean, that was pretty obvious. The benchmark was set. But by dealing with it now, that's what caused the time stress. And the time stress came from putting it here late, not wanting to deal with it in time. That's the problem we're different about. We said here repeatedly, let's talk about the valorisation mechanism in the future, because it was sometimes made up at a time when inflation was around one percent, and now it's somewhere else. But this is about the coalition's negotiations - the opposition, it's about a permanent solution. I'd like that answer here, why didn't you discuss it in November and December? That's a very simple question. I'd like a simple answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u271	Thank you. Mrs Balaštíková will now make a point of fact, and President Schillerová will be ready. Please, you have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u272	Good evening, colleagues and colleagues. I thank the Minister for presenting the tables on growth in pension rates in the Czech Republic compared to Slovakia. But there's still one thing I need us to do somewhere to see what the pensioner's money, or whoever, is gonna buy how he's gonna go about it. I understand it's not even the job of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs to look for money, that other ministers are supposed to do it, but we're still going back to the fact that nobody here has done it, somebody hasn't done it. And Minister, 30. 11. 2022 I was talking about church restitutions, about the fact that we have an inflation clause with church restitutions, and the churches will improve about 7 billion compared to what they expected. I think they have legitimate expectations like those old people. I understand where you're from, and I wonder why, and I suggested that you try to agree with them in a decent way that they're social and they're here for the people, they're not there for the money, so that, in some way, this inflationary clause will be abandoned while there's not so much misery in this territory. Why haven't you come to this yet? Well, I'd expect that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u273	Thank you. President Schillerová will now take a stand, Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u274	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Well, I'll sum up the facts. In November 2022, the Ministry of Finance's fiscal outlook was issued, an official document available on the Ministry of Finance's website, which assumes that the extraordinary pension valorisation in 2023 would be around 20 billion because it expected a 6% intermonth inflation. In December 2022, a representative of the National Budget Board appeared, the document is traceable on the website of the National Budget Board, and he pointed out that the 20 billion, as well as reached the same number as the Ministry of Finance, are not in the budget. And I'm asking, when you're here so touchingly, Minister, you almost made me cry, talking about the 2011 comparison, how they had enough time back then, and then they put it there at the last minute. And you didn't have enough time? You didn't have enough time to discuss it? To discuss, if necessary, a valuation scheme? No, you guys had enough time, but you just had this little thing in the program, and that was an election, and that didn't fit you, to say the least, in your plans. So I'm asking you, 20 billion, the fiscal outlook says that the 20 billion is actually in that budget, when I read it, it's there. The National Budget Board says he's not there. So if they're there, I know they're not, but if they're there, we're talking about 14 billion, and that's what's going on here. Well, as far as the comparison goes, you'd better not fight the ratio of 61 wholes, right now I'm looking at it, 61.5 percent. I have already sent a request to the Ministry of Finance today under Section 11 of the Rules of Procedure, and I request a very clear explanation. I asked x questions to the Minister about how this could have been contrary to the fiscal macroeconomic prediction. [[Time.]] And I'm gonna turn myself in one more time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u275	Thank you. Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová is signed up next with the facts. Mr. Mr. králíček will be ready. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u276	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. At this point, we are discussing a confirmation of the duration of a legislative emergency. The Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, who is the promoter, has appeared. I assumed, Minister, through Madam President, that you would be here to justify why we are discussing the pension insurance law in a state of legislative emergency. I practically didn't hear it from you. So you were expressing yourself on the point of pension insurance. So I'm asking - are we now, Madam Vice-President, or what are we discussing? I'm getting lost in this, and I absolutely don't know my way around it. At the same time, I would like to ask, since we are now discussing the confirmation of the duration of the state of legislative emergency, whether the Permanent Committee on the Senate is still acting, that the Minister for Legislation is not present here? Why isn't he here? So the Secretary of Defense told us it was very important that he was on a permanent committee. I've been looking at the Senate website on purpose, so it's clearly stated that the hours are within three hours. But maybe he's still in business at 22.36. But I haven't really seen this minister since. So I think that if we are discussing what is very relevant to legislation and this is a confirmation of the state of legislative emergency, where I must point out that if today was a permanent commission for the Constitution, Mr Canov is clearly stating how unconstitutional it is, Mr Čunek and others are saying so. I will, of course, allow myself to speak again, but I would like to ask that the Minister of Legislation be present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u277	Thank you. Mr králíček, Mr Vondráček, will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u278	Madam Vice-President, ministers, colleagues, fellow survivors, I would like to follow up on these questions with my colleague Nacher, and I would like to ask Minister Jurečka politely, because he mentioned here that the magical date on 10 February was surprising for them, that they were surprised by the rate of inflation and that they could not actually put it earlier in the House plenary, and therefore, by chance after the elections, it is in a state of legislative emergency. And that he wanted to deal with us here, but he couldn't. So I would like to ask politely if he could tell us the timetable they were dealing with, because, as mentioned here, the predictions came out sometime in September, October and November, and they were somewhere around 15 percent, or up to 15 percent of the expected inflation. And there I think, in layman's terms, of course, that there might have been some negotiation between you and the opposition on how the valorisation scheme could possibly have developed if the prediction of 15 percent had been fulfilled, which then fulfilled the 10. 2. 'Cause as you described it, don't be mad at me, so it really seems like you put it after the presidential election in a state of legislative emergency, and the effort to do that wasn't here. And when you mentioned Slovakia at the end, I would just like to mention that they also have early elections in Slovakia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u279	Thank you. Mr Vondráček is now ready to take action, Mr Foldyna will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u280	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, I will try without emotion. First of all, I want to appreciate you getting off, and at least somebody's talking to us, so you've got a plus on me, I'm saying it's fair. But then I want to tell you that we're moving here in this ordeal where we're dealing with confirmation of the duration of a legislative emergency, and I'm convinced that 90 percent of your speech wasn't going that way. Your speech belongs to the second and third reading of it. Because really, I'm sorry, and everyone, as you're sitting here, the situation of today's 40s is not to be addressed in a legislative emergency. I'm not saying that maybe we invented it, or those governments before us, and it's just a long debate, but we can't deal with that in a state of legislative emergency. There are a lot of legal analyses, the Constitutional Court findings. He can, every lawyer has two or three opinions. I'm gonna try it really hard and easy. You can't say that paying a pension is an economic loss. We learned at school that either when your property is reduced, it's a so-called real loss or a lost profit when the property doesn't grow, as we suspected. But what's this damage? If I argue ad absurdum, then in your opinion, it's a shame to have any pension you pay, even if it's not the non-valorized one. Just a shame is all that Minister Stanjura has to pay for his budget? That's ridiculous, isn't it? And the other thing. Is there anyone who still doesn't understand that you can't just say it's a shame something when you pay it off by the law? Because the damage assumes some kind of infringement or unlawful state. There must be a violation of the law here, or there must be some natural disaster, which is remembered by Act 110 on Security in Article 8 and what all these constitutional findings follow and say it must be the same intensity, some fundamental natural disaster. But we're not witnesses. I'm really saying it in a peasant's way. Where's the damage? Can you define in this ordeal what, therefore, is the economic damage, how it occurred?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u281	Thank you. Now with Mr Foldyna in fact, then Mr Brož. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u282	Thank you for your word. I also listened carefully to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs when he explained the figures about the pensions, and the Minister basically did not explain to us anything about the legislative emergency that we are talking about today. We all know when the legislative emergency is justified, and I would probably repeat myself, the threat to the state and I don't know what all this is. Do you feel that such a thing exists at this moment? I feel like there's gonna be a legislative emergency when you guys rob those old people of that $20 billion. When they go to the grocery store, because they don't even have money now! I'd like to see those old-timers, those conscious old-timers who say they're okay with it. I don't really know them. The other side is really texting me. And I think it would be a legislative emergency if you sat in the front seat a week ago, reported that you were going to sit in Ústí in a pub and discuss it with those people. Then there would be a legislative emergency, which we probably wouldn't have anyone to talk to for a while, because that's where I go in those pubs, and I'll confess. Not only in Ústí nad Labem, in Děčín I'm sitting with those guys, I wish I could listen to you about the legislative emergency they're saying and what they have to do to keep their parents on a level. 'Cause these people really don't have the power to turn on the extra heat. They're not saving it (?) that they want to defeat Putin. They're the war you forced us to fight - it's your war, not ours! There is no war here! We're at war with you for those retired people because you decided to buy an F-35 for 200 billion! That's their money, and it's all gonna be paid by the seniors. [[Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u283	Thank you. Now with Mr Brož, then Mr Lang. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u284	Thank you for the floor. I was also very interested, as some colleagues, in fact, that most of the time that the Minister told us was not the justification for the legislative emergency that we are actually talking about all the time, and we are asking about its necessity. As my colleague Vondráček, through Madam President, said, how it could be a shame to pay pensions. At the end, Minister Jurečka said to say exactly, precisely fair and predictable, that he would wish it to work in the future. But that's exactly what you're completely treading on this step. That's absolutely not predictable. What are we gonna call the damage next time? The fact that taxes didn't go up or any other government expenses? That's just not common sense at all, and people can't understand it. You're packing it up into all sorts of legal loopholes. And then, of course, we're being blamed here for creating generations among ourselves. Again, the Minister is swinging a graph and what a family has with two children and so on. But that's exactly what you're making. So you're building a family with two kids against a pensioner. There's some solidarity system here, and those current pensioners have spent their entire lives paying what the state wanted them to do, to other pensioners at that time. That's just the way it is. And if we want to change something in this system, it has to change systemically. Not the way you do it. And still in a state of legislative emergency. In addition to the presidential elections, of course, one of the other arguments is that if you wanted to deal with this seriously, really responsiblely long-term, you could really come across this debate that you chose the wrong way. You canceled the EET, so I could say, so the blackout from the EET you want to replace by taking out the pensioners' statutory valorization. [[Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u285	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Lang will now take action, Minister Jurečka will prepare himself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u286	Thank you, Madam President. I would also like to respond to Mr. Jurečka. We all have some material. I'm also prepared for a longer speech, of course, but I'd like to say here for his pressure that he's just dealing with it right now. I will only read a few sentences: Since the end of last year, the National Budget Board has warned the current government that if the parameters of extraordinary valorisation do nothing at the level of the law, it will hurt the budget very much. The government has done even less than nothing. Not only did it not change the parameters of extraordinary valorisation in time, but in the budget of 2023, it did not even count on any extraordinary valorisation, so the already significantly weak budget received a longer blow in the form of approximately CZK 20 billion, even more. And then there was one more thing in Mr. Jurečka's statement about how he was written by those pensioners who were counting on them to just be responsible and know that they didn't really want the money. I don't know who's texting you, but I've got a swamped mailbox from seniors who say: fight for us, just every crown is good for us. And in that context, I remembered this socialist poster, which maybe some of you elders will also know when there's a pub like this, and there's just this alcoholic who drinks that alcohol, and there's this hand and says, "Don't drink it, rather the book." So I would modernize it. If Mr. Jurečka shows us posters all the time, I'd put Mr. Jurečka there, I'd put a senior home there where I'd write, "Not a thousand crowns, I'd rather have a book." Senior home. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u287	Thank you. Minister Jurečka will now speak with the facts, Mrs Pastuchová will prepare herself. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u288	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, fellow Members, I would like to respond and I would like to ask myself a question here through Madam President, it may not be answered by the former Minister of Finance, but when she drew up a budget for 2022, how much did inflation predict for 2022? And when the budget was drawn up in 2021 for 2022, how much did the Ministry of Finance predict inflation in 2022, and how much money was spent on extraordinary valorisation in the draft budget? I'll be glad if he answers that, he'll say the inflation number, then we'll compare it to what I was looking at as the Treasury predicted. It wasn't covered, but it was the state budget, the two extraordinary valorizations, last year he just covered it. [[2.50 hours]] And it's just as... at such an extremely tense time to say that we have in August, when the government is finalizing the budget, it got it to the House at the beginning of September, when we have to define exactly the inflation of the following year at such a turbulent time, it just isn't realistic. Just as we covered it when it wasn't in the budget, an extraordinary valuation of 2022, which was twice as much, and we both said it with the Minister of Finance that we were ready to do the same in 2023. I'm in public space, it's traceable, he said repeatedly before the end of last year, we're counting on it, it's going to be an amount of about 20 billion. Yes, that's what we're counting on. But the change really occurred in the significant increase between December and January and the issue that was published. And the last one, I'm reading it here, I've got a lot of e-mails: We would like to tell you that my wife and I support your intention in terms of valorizing pensions. Our age is near 80, we don't have enough to waste, yet we don't want him to become even more indebted to the elderly because of us. [[Time.]] That's one of the many reactions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u289	Thank you. She will now speak with Mrs Pastuchová, then Mr Kubíček and then Mr Nacher. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u290	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. So, Minister, through Madam Vice-President, I can now take factual notes after two minutes and read the voters' reactions that are writing to me. So everyone picks out the e-mails they need right now, which they can use. I'm glad you got off. At least someone's sitting here. I'm surprised the Minister of Finance isn't here, but so be it. And just in case you don't know, the Minister of Law is excused by 6:00 in the morning for personal reasons. You've got it, you can all look in your note cards. So if you want to put him down, you'll have to wait until 6:00 in the morning. And I'm just touched here, Mr. Minister, by the way, by the way, you mention how our government hasn't done anything, you're doing everything amazing now, everything's flooded with the sun. But remember, you were with us in that government, too. You weren't in the other one, but you were in the other one with us. So you could also work a little harder to make this pension reform happen six years ago. Unlike you, you keep saying how... I don't know, Mr. Secretary, you're on top of me, I guess you like me so much that every time I talk, you keep humming. [[Laughter.]] But that's still the first act, now, all the time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u291	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u292	Thank you, I'll go on. The Minister is no longer humming. So how you do everything great, how you've prepared everything, but we're not sitting here at all, and we're not sitting until Saturday, by Sunday, we really don't care. This is a whole other thing. [[Time.]] Already? I'm gonna say it again in two minutes, and I'm gonna set up those e-mails that your constituents are texting me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u293	Yes, that's your right. Mr Kubíček, Mr. Kubíček, and in fact, Mr. Nacher is now registered. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u294	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I'll read you something. My lawyer friend, who sends his regards to some of his students, has also been watching. I don't know why he's so worried about his head. And he wrote this to me: There has already been a legal claim to pension valorisation within the current auditorium scheme. It has already been created because the substantive assumptions for its implementation, the level of inflation and wage growth and wages have already been met. And that is why the government should and must actually comply with the existing rules for valorization and follow it. In this case, therefore, the Government's procedure is a flagrant violation of the fundamental legal principle, namely the prohibition of the retrospective effectiveness of the legal standard, and undermines the principle of legitimate expectations of the addressees of this legal standard. So, according to him, there's nothing to discuss in a legislative emergency.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u295	Thank you. It is Mr Nacher's turn for action, then Mrs Peštová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u296	Well, thank you, I'll follow up on Roman Kubíček, because about that, that's the point, that's the essence of the problem. I'm gonna say it out loud. If the government coalition had come to us as the biggest opposition party in October and said, we want to change the chart because it is unfinanceable, and we would have rejected you, so from November you would not have been waiting for it until 10 February, because it was clear how inflation would develop, so it would have been done by the proper legislative process, so it would not have been claimed, as Roman Kubíček was talking about it now. What bothers us is that, from November to February, we didn't really talk about it at all, and you didn't open it until after February 10th, that's the point. And now you're saying we don't put these people against each other. Don't be mad at me, Minister, because you said that Secretary Schillerová's average income was 39 percent in relation to the average wage, and now it's 49 percent, and what anyone has to complain about, you're actually building them, because I've already explained to the Finance Minister here, that's unfair. The 39 percent were at a time when inflation was low, real wages went up, while at this point inflation is 15%, let's say real wages go down, the valuation scheme works as an automaton, and at that point, of course, the percentage is changing. But you have to put that in context. It's not that it's plus 10 percentage points because of this government or economic growth, but that's because of the inflation, because the inflation is double affecting the elderly. That means that the percentage for people who don't understand it, 39, 49, is that the younger generation stands up to the seniors like they're eating through their future. But it really isn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u297	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Berenika Peštová, Mrs Balaštíková, will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u298	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Minister, that's what I've been saying all along. By not being processed by RIA, impact studies, so how are we supposed to evaluate the threat, or possibly the threat of significant economic damage that should cause our country or our state budget? That's exactly what we're talking about. I'd repeat myself again if I said you put it in the interreort without having all the essentials, you got an exception. But that's exactly what we need to know. If this impact study is not processed, we are unable to evaluate it. Or am I to understand that the threat of considerable economic damage would not have occurred if we had adopted this amendment because you had already counted on it, and that's why you had zero in the budget for valorisation? That means we're back at the Constitutional Court's find, which said exactly that the government had arrived at, which actually, the Constitutional Court, then dropped because it was counting on something that wasn't actually in the finals, and instead of building that budget on existing laws, which is the obligation to do it, that's, that's what it's supposed to be, and not counting on me to change something in the future, and that's why I'm going to build that budget on it. In fact, you've broken everything you could have broken. And I'd quite like to know the answer to that. And I also asked you, what inflation do you expect in 2024, when it should be the great threat of the economic damage that should occur? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u299	Thank you. Mrs Balaštíková will now speak with the facts, and President Schillerová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u300	On a lovely evening, I greet you and respond to the Minister. And I was provoked by my colleague králíček, who got off here, and I made a timeline like this. So it was only February 10, 2023 that the government had learned what inflation was like in the past year. So that means that on February 9, 2023, she didn't know yet. But the newspaper has been discussing this lively since June and July, when the new Bank Board of the Czech National Bank joined, predicted that inflation would shoot to a level above 15 percent. That is what the new members of the National Budget Board respond to and make recommendations on how the government should behave. However, on February 10, 2023, it is only officially confirmed that 15 percent of inflation is. And the government will sit down in record time in five days to prepare a bill amendment. I looked at the calendar, and please, those five days were just three business days. Well, that's my stuff! And that's why we have a short-term regime here now, because it's actually not going to make it. And you want to tell us, Minister, that you're fair and that you couldn't predict enough what would happen if the NERV and the new Bank Board told you this in July 2023? And I found that in the headlines. I can go back to the budget committee meeting where we talked about this. So I'm really wondering if you really want to say that you didn't have it ready long ago and you made it in those three working days. [[Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u301	Thank you for keeping time. President Schillerová will now take a stand, Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u302	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Well, Minister, I know, of course, how much of the forecast last in August 2021, which was the basis for the national budget of 2022, the last budget of our government, the proposal, so I know what inflation was average there. About 3.8 percent. You know, it was, and when we were done, it was 5.4. That was Babišův's precious thing you were so fond of mentioning. Mr. Prime Minister, I see, that was his slogan he went to the election with. And then the inflation went off, of course it had x of different influences. We never said it was your fault she fired the gun. We have always said that it was your fault that you did nothing to help these people sufficiently. So now you're crowning it completely by reducing their legal valorization in this absolutely unconstitutional way. I want to point out that the Minister of Finance today on the website of the Ministry of Finance, and he defended it, you stood next to each other at a press conference, a very non-standard table which contradicts the prediction of January of the Ministry of Finance. [[published by:]] I have already sent a request to the Minister of Finance today under Section 11 of the Rules of Procedure, and I will want to know there - because this is a scandal that happened today. This is a total scandal! If I don't make it, I'll sign up again. I will want to know from which data was based, what time series, which department of the Ministry of Finance predicted this estimate, if the source is not the department, I want to state the name of the advisor, the reason that led to a change in the rate of predicted growth for 2023 compared to the January forecast, this new figure will be reflected in the Act on the State Budget and so on. I don't think I can make it. So I'm just saying, be very careful with the table that the Treasury put on the Twitter account today. [[Time.]] It doesn't match the January forecast. And indeed, the differences, the numbers are scandalous. I'm gonna turn myself in one more time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u303	Yes, thank you. Now, with Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová's factual remark, Mrs Malá is also registered. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u304	Well, thank you for your word. I would really like to know why the Minister for Legislation is not here. I was looking at an apology. He was excused from 12:00 to 16. 30 and from 20.00 to 6.00 hours for personal reasons. Of course, we can all have some important reasons, but I have to say that this government has planned to have an emergency meeting today, to confirm the state of the legislative emergency. I will use the Prime Minister or the First Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister of the Interior, Vít Rakušan, to tell me why the Minister of Legislation is not here. At the same time, I would like to remind Mr Michálek's performance, which was in the morning. In those factual remarks, when Mr Michálek here called on us not to speak in the debate with factual remarks and to let the Minister of Legislation speak, he wanted to explain why a state of legislative emergency was declared. But the Minister of Legislation did not appear at all until now. I didn't hear him logged in with priority rights. That is what you said, Mr Michálek, through Madam President. Take a look at the log. Assumed, he spoke with a factual remark of two minutes, two minutes, did not perform with a preferential right. Please don't yell at me. I think that you should make amends, Madam President. And I think that if we're confirming a state of legislative emergency here, that there's a proper minister who you've approved for yourself, then he really should be able to do that here. Don't be mad at me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u305	Thank you. Mrs Malá will now speak with a point of fact. It is also ready, I see, Mrs Adámková, to be logged in. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u306	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I'm so glad the Prime Minister is here with us. I'd like to ask him, I'm really sorry about Minister Jurečka, he's a minority here. It would be nice if you didn't want to consider taking a break to get the Minister of Legislation and the Minister of Justice here, or at least stand up for the Minister here, for example, members of the Constitutional Legal Committee, because you're dragging - please don't yell at me, colleague - you're pulling a shorter rope.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u307	Excuse me, madam, to agree that we are not shouting here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u308	And you have not yet been able to explain why we should vote in favour of confirming a state of legislative emergency. The fact that our colleague Jurečka here is talking about when the legal claim arose or did not arise for the pensioners for the valorisation is what we will discuss on the next point. We have a series of analyses where we can tell you that it's not really what you're saying, and the worst part is that you know it very well. You know this very well, and you also know that at this point the conditions for confirming the duration of the legislative emergency are not fulfilled. You know that very well. Or why didn't you explain it to us until now, we've asked you several times? It simply violates the principles of democratic rule of law from beginning to end, if you push it through here, and we will really, if that happens, demand redress at the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u309	Thank you. Mr Vondráček will now speak with the factual remark of Mrs Adámková, and Mr Vondráček will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u310	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear Ministers, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I must say that I am sorry for Minister Jurečka, because work and social affairs are a very difficult ministry and few people know social work. And he defends it heroically here, even though he doesn't know what he's talking about sometimes. But I have to say, I like it. So, Minister, you're really trying, so only sometimes it's next door. But let me respond here, because I have a citizen who wrote to me at 10:18 a.m. - Sir, thank you for the last comment. But maybe it's better in the interest of mental health to go to sleep, but it's up to you, we thank you for watching us - where he wants to say he wants me to tell you that you have what you've shown that non-social behavior, that it's a rogue. Of course, I'm just quoting it. I have one question here, one you might be able to answer, some you can't. Because on January 16th of this year, Minister Jurečka on the show, and it is traceable on all networks, clearly says about the valorization that it will, of course, be necessary, because that is what the law says. I don't blame you for one thing, and you didn't know exactly what inflation would be. I can't blame you for that. But that it would be greater than 5%, so everyone in this country knew that, so the minister had to know. And I really think you should have some support for valid answers to those questions here, because I think you're trying, but you're cooking out of the water. And sometimes the answers are really hard. But that's actually in your defense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u311	Thank you, too. Mr Vondráček will now speak with a point of fact. Mr. Janulík will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u312	Thank you for the floor. In the previous factual remark, I did not have time to ask the complete question, as I had planned, by any chance, the Minister did not answer the previous, certainly by mistake. I've been trying really hard to get rid of those legal phrases and to speak plainly, and I actually want to answer the yes or no question. I understand the proposal that you claim that compliance with standard legislation in the law 155 of 1995 results in damage to the Czech Republic. The question was - is it a real shame, or is it a loss of profit? Because really, when I think of it ad absurdum, then every pension payment from the state budget is de facto a waste. If I come out of this mind march here. And my next question is, can you think about who the pest is? Then the pests are all the beneficiaries of the old-age pensions we're talking about here. That means, my question is really: The damage is caused, should it be caused by compliance with the law? That's something I can't accept with respect to my education and some logical thinking. And thank you for your answer. In the remaining time, I would like to thank the staff of traumaology at Olomouc University Hospital for allowing me to participate in this enriching evening shift. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u313	Such factual remarks sometimes serve to thank you. I understand that, but I tolerate that statement because we're glad you could be here, Mr. Ambassador, with us. Mr Janulík will now make a point of fact, Mr Michálek will prepare himself. Maybe I'd just like to make a quick remark. The ministers will be happy to answer your questions. But since there are quite a lot of factual remarks and they have priority, please be patient. You can also follow the number of factual remarks. That's the blue number next to the debate. So first they're factual, only then can there be responses to your factual remarks. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u314	Thank you for the floor. I'll take two look at Minister Jurečka's performance. The first one as logical, of course, doctoral, but I'm gonna move him ahead of it because he's a musician, he's a musician. Mr. Secretary, it's fake, and you play the wrong instrument, so not in the band. It's just what you're doing here, I understand that it is, but it's just not good. And the doctor's is that I'm quoting to you my honored colleague, the eminent psychiatrist, who now writes to me that he would like to show you all a card. Because such a contradiction as the mental one who simply watches online here is really almost on a psychiatric diagnosis, and of course many of you, and you're even, like, presenting yourself, you're a believer, or the eighth commandment I would remind you, and I believe that there will be a special boiler for you in hell. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u315	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Michálek will now speak with de facto effect, then Mrs Fialová. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u316	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to Mr Vondráček, who spoke here about the interpretation of the concept of economic damage. Since he is chairman of the Constitutional and Legal Committee -
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u317	I'm sorry to interrupt. Calm down, please. Thank you. Go on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u318	So I thought that he should get acquainted with the issue of legislative emergency and interpretation of Section 99, as contained among other things in Dr Silová's comments and others, where the relevant decisions of the Constitutional Court are quoted. And it states: The decision on whether there is economic damage is not a decision on damages in the legal sense, but is based on reflections on broader political conventions. That's find number one. 269/2010 Sb. So there is no point in applying a standard legal theory that relates to the concepts of damage, not economic damage within the meaning of the Rules of Procedure, that is not the same as damage in a civil sense. So dividing it into damage to real and lost profits makes no sense in this regard. And the second point, that is the founding of Constitutional Court No. 80/2011. There, the Constitutional Court states that the assessment of the nature of the threat of damage is not strictly controllable. Their emergence and scope is only in the plane of probable tendencies and requires weighing a number of facts or contexts, such as the interest of the individual entities concerned, the impacts of public finances, internal policy and foreign policy contexts, and so on. So I definitely recommend getting to know the interpretation. And perhaps if you had allowed the Minister of Legislation to speak as a standard in a debate with priority rights at the beginning of this point, where it was appropriate, and you had not blocked it with factual remarks, you would have listened to his comments at the time he was here. I think it's been about six hours, and it's been enough time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u319	Thank you. Now, Mrs Fialová, de facto, then Minister Jurečka. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u320	Thank you for the floor. It won't let me, I'll try to respond to Mr. Michálek later, but I'd like him not to train us here. And I would, I would have applied at the time, and I would like to respond to Minister Jurečka, who here told us that it was not possible to put this valorisation in the budget, which I can still understand for some reason, but then he said that it was also not possible to predict what would happen. So I'm just saying, Minister, about two hours ago, on your Facebook profile, you shared a contribution that KDU-ČSL said three hours earlier, where you thank or put your thumb up to Zdeňk Nekul, where you invite citizens to send incentives to behave immorally in business chains. The article is listed from 27. 2. which is yesterday, and partly in this article is written directly from the Minister, it is your press release that neither the Trade and Tourism Union nor the chain representatives according to Minister Nekula was the minimum agreement on constructive discussion of the sugar price at a time when it increased by 77 per cent in the last four months of 2022, while processors increased their prices by only 51 per cent due to energy prices. So either you don't know what you're sharing and what kind of information you're giving, or you're deliberately misleading us here. And maybe I'll turn myself in again, 'cause I have a message for my friend later, and I can't make it in 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u321	Thank you, Madame. I'm just saying, factually, it serves as a response. [[The answer from the O.R.]] I'm sorry if I missed him talking about food, I'm sorry. [[Let's hear it.]] I am sorry, but please, let us stick to the fact that we are responding to the de facto speech that was made in the debate. Now please, Minister Jurečka, with a factual remark and then President Schillerová. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u322	Thank you very much. I, I must say, am fascinated by the fact that Members who criticize that I, in my speech, defending the state of legislative emergency that I have also mentioned, will also put the budgetary, economic implications in the context, and then here the Members who are speaking outside of what was not at all the content of today's debate, see now my predecessor, who spoke here a moment ago about some Facebook status that has nothing to do with the subject that we are discussing here for legislative distress. But because many of you don't read, you don't read the explanatory report of the bill, so I quote to you. It's item number 11 - The way the bill is dealt with. The reasons for this exceptional procedure are seen in particular in the considerable economic damage that the State faces without the adoption of the bill. In the present case, the petitioner considers that the conditions for discussing a proposal in a state of legislative emergency are met, as defined by the Constitutional Court in its decision of 1 March 2011. It is clear from the interpretation given in the previous parts of the explanatory memorandum that the procedure under Paragraph 67 (2) of the explanatory memorandum is not applicable. As a result of the adverse economic situation of the pension insurance law, the rise in inflation in January 2023 by 8,6 percent would have serious negative effects on the balance of the state pension account in 2023 by CZK 34.4 billion, in 2024, by another CZK 5.8 billion, which can be subsumed under a situation where there is significant economic damage within the meaning of Section 99 (1) of the Treaty. 1 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. Inflation has increased in a way that is clearly out of line with the normal conduct of internal and external political processes. Point 84. Accelerated and timely adoption of the law has the potential to mitigate these effects significantly, it is to bring financial savings on the expenditure side of the state budget. Furthermore, this list of reasons goes on. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u323	Thank you, Minister. Mr Schillerová will now speak with the de facto President, and then Mr Brož will speak and will only be followed by Mr Lang. Please, Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u324	Thank you for the floor. Minister, keep your lectures on whether anyone reads or doesn't read the reason message. Believe me, we read it. It's not a very long reading, and there's nothing we can read. So I guess that's what this is all about. So you said $20 billion in your pension budget. That's not what the National Budget Board said. So you're actually missing 14.4. Fourteen and four. And Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura said today at a press conference, I think it was today: If we had not shortened the pensioner, we would have had to deepen the deficit. And on Sunday, he said on the talk show, "If they force us not to shorten, we won't have to deepen it." It's really cool! And now I'm going to go back to the chart that the Treasury presented today. Minister Stanjura relied so much on her at a press conference. You were standing next to him. When I asked, he wouldn't answer me. He told my colleagues that he didn't know what to say, that it wasn't his fault, that they put it there, that probably someone put it there, that he didn't even know anything about it. So I believe I'll get an answer and I'll get an explanation. But all I'm saying is that the table shows what they've just hung up on a little bit of Tornix today, that if they're counting on nominal wage growth of 2,9% this year, that's going to mean a drop in real ones by 7 percent. So, apparently, according to today's chart, we're going to repeat last year's scenario, when we're the poorest in history. So he's sending us to the top of the OECD countries. I'm asking in my tweet about the union. He's not talking yet. But anyway, it's completely, totally diametrically inconsistent with the prediction of January of this year. [[Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u325	Thank you. Mr Brož will now speak with a point of fact, then Mr Lang. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u326	Thank you for the floor. I didn't have enough time to finish my deed, so I signed up one more time. In the meantime, however, I would like to respond to Mr Michálek, by your means, Madam President, because what we have seen here was a complete manipulation that we see as yes. We have made it impossible for the Minister of Law to make his factual remarks. 'Cause if I remember correctly, there was a six-hour wait. He spoke at 11 o'clock for 56 minutes. He hasn't been here for two hours. At something like this point in the announcement of a state of legislative emergency, where the government would need his very own right now, precisely his explanation and his stand-up. And if you remember correctly, that's what I was going to say in the first post, and you're going to play it his short performance, he didn't seem like the most zealous supporter of this operation. So that's what I wanted to say, too, to join what my colleagues said, that he's not here, because he should actually have Mr. Jurečka, Mr. Stanjur and the government's backs in the first place. Now's the time to earn that ministerial chair. And it wasn't here. So it's about mine. And just, Mr Michálek, through Madam President, do not manipulate the facts like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u327	Thank you. Mr Lang will now speak with the de facto Member, Mr Nacher will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u328	Thank you. Well, I'd first respond to Mr. Jurečka. I don't know, Mr. Secretary, where you get the arrogance, why you don't think we're reading the explanatory notes. I don't know what makes you think you're attacking us here at 11:30. And then I'd like to continue with this thing that we're dealing with here. I would like to quote one quote, and please listen to it: What we can say and what we have to say is that when someone hurts the defenseless, hurts women, hurts children, hurts old people, we can't agree with it, we have to roll up our sleeves and punch somebody in the face. It's just normal. And a round of applause. Do you know who said that? This was said by Mr. Jurečka at a KDU-ČSL convention, perhaps within some of his nomination speeches. I'm asking, who in the five-calice has actually invented what you've done here, what you're presenting here in a state of legislative emergency, and who gets in that face, and when? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u329	Mr Nacher will now make a point of fact, then Mrs Pastuchová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u330	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I'll make it as simple as I can, please, nicely. Changing the parameters of the valuation scheme is a legitimate political debate. One more time. Eat my lips. Change - [[One of the Members shall appear before the speaker and read. Fun.]] Yes, thank you, colleague. The change in parameters of the valuation scheme is a legitimate political debate between the coalition and the opposition. But it's a system change. And, in principle, systemic change cannot be approved by a system in a state of legislative emergency. That's the problem, because it's a system change. It's just not possible to approve this way, but it's legitimate to talk about it. You guys are always pushing us somewhere that we don't want to talk about these things. We want to have fun. So I'm going to say it so it's as simple as I'm saying it's as easy as a ladder. The question is quite simple: why didn't the government challenge the opposition and talk about changing the parameters of the Valorisation Mechanism in November, October last year? That's a very simple question. Can you answer that? No emotion, no nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u331	Thank you. Now, Mrs Pastuchová, with a point of fact. Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová will next appear. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u332	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. So I, as promised, will also start reading the e-mails I received here, and hopefully I can make it. Hello, Mrs Pastuchová. As a citizen of this country who is interested in political events, please allow a few questions and a great request. You are going to discuss the briefing of the House's pension insurance press, which will take away the pensioners who have worked and paid taxes their entire lives, a large part of the money guaranteed by the legal right to value their pension according to the underlying inflation. Are you serious? I think she mistook me for a coalition MP. - After you've added since January 23? I heard you had to, because it was legal. And now, to pensioners who are entitled to an increase by law, you will even turn this law into an accelerated act in a legislative emergency, which, by the way, is probably proposed illegally. At the same time, you refuse to freeze your newly raised salaries further. You've got to be kidding me. Do you think that people are not interested in your culinary and strange unfair practices? Last year, when you advised citizens how to save money, find two jobs, take two sweaters, and at the same time add their salaries, increase the number of your advisors, the number of ministries. Where's your common sense and your conscience at all? I expect you to object to a deterioration in the economic situation, inflation and energy prices. Forget it. You literally turned the inflation spiral into your incompetence and arrogant ignorance of the advice of true experts. You had the electricity price picked up completely artificially. In case you haven't noticed her manufacturers and distributors. [[Time.]] I'll finish it when I sign up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u333	Please. Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová will now speak with a point of fact, Mr Vondráček will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u334	Well, thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I would like to respond first to Mr Michálek, through Madam President, when my fellow Member here said that Mr Michálek had mysticized here. First of all, from my point of view, I would say that he was very arrogant because he practically told us that by speaking in factual terms, what would we want the Minister of Legislation to be here? So I would just like to repeat once again: The Pension Insurance Act has been approved by the government per rollam, which means that it has not met. Only everyone clicked and e-mailed: I'm in. The state of the legislative emergency has approved per rollam, okay? The law that touches, 2.7 million people. Then this government will convene an emergency meeting to confirm the state of the legislative emergency, and the Minister for Legislation is not here, and no one will tell me why he is not here. Of course, if he has serious reasons for that, I can understand that. The mayor's sitting here, too. [[Freedom]] But the Minister of Legislation is just supposed to be here. Don't be mad at me. And now let's just say, please, facts about inflation. So what are the facts? The Czech Republic is the third worst in inflation. Average inflation within the EU is 8.5 %. Then why is the Czech Republic 17.5 %? This government keeps saying how it's gonna get better, and it's getting worse. What is it? It's because she couldn't handle the absolute energy crisis, because the austerity package was approved, and then it turned into a splash, and that's why we got to the numbers that we got to. And now the most vulnerable are supposed to take it? I think that your procedure really is completely illogical and very unfair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u335	Thank you for keeping time. I wish you all a good evening once more and I will ask you another de facto, and this is Mr. Radek Vondráček, Berenika Peštová will prepare herself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u336	Well, thank you for the debate going on. I will try to respond in combination to my colleague Michálek and Minister Jurečka. Mr Michálek quoted a comment, the comment is based on the Constitutional Court's finding, and the same Constitutional Court notes in its findings that the constitutional order expressly permits a reduced hearing, a reduced procedure only within the scope of Article 8 of the Czech Security Act, and that is, if I am not mistaken, a threat to the state or a state of war. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. That we still have some other provisions in the Rules of Procedure, which are then used in some way in the context of this hearing, so the court expressly states that if other reasons are considered, then they must be of the same intensity, of the same nature, they must be of the same type as those two which are in the State Security Act, and that is a threat to the state or to the state of war. Then we can consider in the boundaries mentioned here by Mr Michálek and what is thus a pity in a broader political sense. I asked for specific damage, because I do not see any threat to the state or to the state of war in this and to the economic damage that the government coalitions present here. The Minister read part of the explanatory report, by the way, the report is very similar to the explanatory report of the Energy Act, which we also discussed here in a state of legislative emergency, and where I asked the Minister of Industry and Trade at the time exactly the same as what the damage is. He couldn't answer me either. And I'm a layman with regard to pension reform and retirement, but is it really fair to argue within this calculation as well as in 2024, when we're all talking here about the will to change the valorisation scheme or at least not to make a fair deal?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u337	Time, please. Thank you and I'll ask Mrs. Berenika Peštová. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u338	Thank you for your word. So I am based on the constitutional finding 53/10, where - I quote: The threat of significant economic damage to the state should therefore consist in the fact that the state budget would be based on a non-existent legal situation, resulting in a deepening of the deficit of public inflation. Likeness purely coincidental with this problem. Furthermore, I quote: It is the responsibility of each government to base the draft law on the state budget on the applicable legislation and, if it calls for an appropriate amendment, to implement its right to submit an appropriate bill in due time, through which it would have made the required changes. And that's exactly what we're talking about here. We are talking about whether or not the legislative situation lasts. And I asked that question. So what I'm supposed to understand is that you've drawn up this budget for a non-existent law, an amendment to the law, and now you're trying to enforce that amendment to get to that zero, in quotes, what's in your budget? Because if you were counting on the existing law, you would have a budget of at least 20 billion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u339	Thank you. The next enrollment is Mrs Eva Fialová. President Schillerová will be ready, then Mr Babka. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u340	Well, thank you for your word. I was accused of not responding to a legislative emergency. I wanted to explain to the Minister, who here explained to us that he could not know why this could not be done in the classic legislative process because he did not know, so obviously, according to his ministry, or the ministry that runs the KDU-ČSL, they knew four months at the end of the year that food prices were rising enormously. Inflation, if I am not mistaken, is made up of a consumer basket, where certain kinds of food, such as sugar, must belong. So that's got something to do with it. And the Minister no doubt had to know about this, and he knew that inflation would be higher than 5%. No one's gonna talk us out of this. That's why we're here to resist a legislative emergency. And you knew it a long time ago, and you could have prepared this valorisation mechanism, which we're all telling you is that we're willing to talk about it long before, and we could have talked about it here at the end of the year, and a whole new valorisation mechanism could have been prepared for the next budget. That's the whole point. Don't tell us you didn't know about this. If you want to save in the state budget, there is an outrageous precedent, very dangerous, that in the future, when you want to save anything, you will proceed in the same way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u341	Thank you. The next candidate is President Schillerová, then Mr Babka, Mrs Ivana Mádlová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u342	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. So I would react to the way the minister here read to us, or he would tell the story of those old men telling him that it's the right thing to do and that they're okay with it. I have to read, Mrs. Simona of Opava is texting me, now, she's texting me on Instagram, and she's begging me to read it. So I, although I could read x different, I have to do this because now she wrote it to me: Mrs. Alenka, please tell the microphone that Jurečka - I'm reading it, yeah, otherwise I'd say Mr. Minister, but sheJurečka reading the retirees who write to him and agree to stealing. But I texted him, of course, that I'm against it, and he blocked the comments on Facebook. You can call the Opava lady. I texted him after he blocked Messenger. Hang in there, they're gonna get arrogant anyway. So, Mrs. Simona, I did what you asked me to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u343	I would like another one of the applicants, and this is Mr. Babka. Then Mrs Mádlová and Minister Jurečka. We're still in the factual notes regime. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u344	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would take the liberty of responding to my colleague Michálek, who therefore defended the absent Minister for Legislation, Minister Šalomoun. I have spoken about this here some time after noon, around one hour, that it seems inappropriate for the Minister of Legislation not to be present here and in no way to comment on the fact that we are confirming the duration of a legislative emergency. I checked the system. The Minister is duly excused for personal reasons from 20 a.m. to 6 a.m. However, there were several times what he said here in his brief factual remark. And he here devoted himself to the fact that, of course, the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens are not threatened in any way, that the security of the state is not threatened, and he merely quoted it, or explained that the state of legislative emergency lasts at a time when there is considerable economic damage to the state. And here I'm going to quote the minister, who spoke briefly here, and I quote, and here's the question, whether or not to assess the legal valorisation as significant economic damage. The case-law, which would approach this as well, is one that concerns the salary of judges, where the Constitutional Court concluded there that the damage in this sense of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies cannot be considered in that narrowly civilian sense, but it must be considered in some broader political context. I was really trying to find a judicature to see if there's an investigation into some kind of state's mandatorial spending, or if it's not the damage that's being done in that state of legislative emergency - and watch out! - but I certainly didn't find anything that explicit. - And that's the only thing that's been said here by the Minister of Legislation at, like, 12 o'clock today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u345	Thank you. Mrs Ivana Mádlová, then the Minister and then Mrs Balaštíková. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u346	Thank you, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to the Minister. However, there is one small point. I noticed the Prime Minister here having a very good time, a real smile on his face. Maybe it's from a statement he made. We are proud that pensions have gone up in record during our reign. I'm sure that's a reason to smile. Basically, it corresponds to your graph, Minister, where you took your picture, but I don't know if you've forgotten that it gives you the law, which means that it's not really the work of your government, and you're bragging about it on the one hand, and on the other hand, you're actually trying to break up the law and the valorization. [[Jurečka]] My second point is that you're also talking about intergenerational solidarity in the press and everywhere, but you're digging up moats between young families and seniors, because you're basically saying that, and you're saying that in the press, it's not going to be for raising the parental contribution if this legal valorisation is left to it. That's really unfair. I think it would be better if you could admit that you are unable to manage the budget of your resort, and you should not dig up ditches between young and seniors who are actually entitled and by law already given the valorization. Then I'd like to read here, too, what a citizen from the Plzeň Region wrote to me because I represent him, but I don't have time, so I'll apply in another factual remark. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u347	Thank you for keeping time. Minister Jurečka and then... Madam, he was still Minister Jurečka. [[Balaštíková]] I thought you guys preferred it. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u348	Thank you. I am glad that within, although it is within factual, but it is running for us, here in the last few minutes, it is quite like a substantive debate that is trying to touch on the issue of legislative emergency here and there. This is a rather significant shift from what was here today at the start of that day. But I'm only going to allow myself to react briefly. Minister Šalomoun was here at the beginning, then here he was between 4:00 and 20:00. That in the meantime there was more than - what?, six or seven hours, now I don't know how the record of the length of babbling fell here, which was not oriented, the speech, on this issue of legislative emergency. He wanted to get off here. And now he's really properly excused, so I think that's quite a thing to understand. When I look into the ranks of opposition MPs, again for logical reasons, which we understand, part of people just need to be at home somewhere at this point, if they're Prague or Central Bohemia, part of them is here in the House, so they're not all here either. So I would like to see, to some extent, these things that, let's say, gentlemanly here in some House communication work. But I am really going back to that part of the explanatory note where they are described, it is clearly written when the question of the legitimate expectation really acquired is, because the law refers to the subsequent decree of the government, which at that moment really admits the clear amount of pensions. And now we are in the meantime, when the data of the Czech Statistical Office was published, and until the government's regulation is issued, there is no clear support for how the Czech Social Security Administration will then proceed in the case of pensions. And there, in the reasoning, we clearly describe that this is the space where there can still be an amendment to the law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u349	Thank you. And now Mrs Balaštíková, then Mrs Pastuchová and Mr Hubert Lang. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u350	So it's almost midnight. So I would like to ask Minister Jurečka, what is the difference between the legitimate expectations of church restitution and the legitimate expectations of our pensioners? Why do we need it there, we don't like it here, then why do we have to go into this legislative emergency? And I would still really like to know the answer to whether you actually worked on that law for the three working days plus two working days off and quiet.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u351	Thank you. Mrs Jana Pastuchová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u352	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I promised to finish my e-mail, but I noticed a note, through you, Mr. Výborný, that it doesn't belong here, to read emails. But it does, because we represent the seniors who write to us and want us to say it here, so I think if we read it here, we're only bringing their opinion to you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u353	Yes, please, but it should always be linked to the factual point, which must be put into it and put an end to the factual one.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u354	Yes, Mr President, but the beginning of that e-mail was that the lady complained that we wanted to approve this in a legislative emergency and she did not like it. And I can say, so I can ask, because I was listening to the show, when Minister Jurečka said why the legislative emergency is, because he said somewhere, and today I read other posts that you wanted to agree and that there would be no negotiations, nothing. We don't want to talk to you. It's not true at all. And you said we'd block it for you, and that's why you took it, or that's why you put in a legislative emergency. And now you're saying it's for some economic reason. So get your shit together, too. But I have to finish it. E-mail conclusions: I want to appeal to your common sense and heart during tomorrow's vote. Ma'am doesn't know we're gonna vote here on Saturday or Sunday. - One day you'll also be old and please don't stir fire between generations. I apologize for the honest and bitter words. I'm just an ordinary woman who works hard, takes care of her mommy and kids. With respect, signed by Mrs. Myth. So that's just the e-mail. I'm not gonna read another one, even though I could, because I'm really saying, we're gonna fight for seniors here, like we said, as long as you can, until you stop us with some of your decisions, but you're gonna listen to those emails here, too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u355	Thank you. Another of the applicants is Mr Hubert Lang and then Mr Petr Sadovský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u356	Thank you, Mr President. I would call my performance, which is really interesting, where we can get to considering the state of legislative emergency, "action but." The action is very simple, the social networks are full of different statements from different people. And I am glad that we have a great Stan here, which is the Minister of the Interior, and a small group of warm tentaries there on the right hand side, where also my honored colleague, Mrs Barbora Urbanová, who has expressed something in the sense of Mr Havlíček, who is chairing, through Mr Havlíček, something about but seasonal food. Only an idiot cooks it in the winter. Imagine that such a thing for a normal person is an egg, an onion, a pepper, a tomato, and oil. The richer ones who can do it, and that's why we want to increase the pension valorization, maybe even put salami in it. Four portions, as Mr Havlíček rightly mentioned, under our governments of previous, crazy governments, who only hurt people and didn't even think about it, were worth 80 crowns in order for four portions. At present, it is around 240 kroner, which means it is 1.5 but in valorization of the right side of the spectrum, and we have painted it. I don't feel like an idiot. Maybe that's how we talk today, because what do we have left at 12 o'clock, considering what we're discussing here? And it doesn't feel like people can eat anything in the winter. We're getting into a state here that we're gonna be eating by season in no time. If it's springtime, there'll be nettles, we'll go graze. Then there will be something in the summer, something in the winter will be expensive again according to the right side of the spectrum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u357	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. But as much as it concerns me personally, I'd really like to ask, let's stick to the factual points. I understand that there might be some kind of bond over the inflation. But let us stick to really factual points, and let us go to the debate. Please, and let's do it another time. Thank you. Next, please, Mr Sadovský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u358	Thank you, Mr President. I would perhaps just like to remind you of the beginning, the conditions for declaring a legislative emergency are set out in Art. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, as follows. I'll repeat myself. I know, but I'll tell you anyway. In exceptional circumstances where the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens or the security of the state are significantly threatened or when the State is threatened with significant economic damage. And this is it - in compliance with other rigid procedural conditions consisting of a double plenary vote confirming the need to shorten the negotiations, the draft law can be discussed in a legislative emergency by a short procedure. And here I add that the Constitutional Court, in its reasoning on similar cases, has already basically added another to these conditions, and the condition is that even if the relevant law laid down by the majority in the Chamber of Deputies is that the conditions are met, it must look back on whether or not the Constitutional Court also considers the relevant part of the opposition of the Chamber of Deputies. And she certainly doesn't think so. And what happened? Let us remember, recently, a colleague of Skopeček here, through Mr President, has been walking and screaming his learned phrases about how wrong EET is, how all this will help us, how credit cards will help us if the EET is cancelled. And what happened today? The government here is crying that he doesn't actually have the money to valorize seniors. What, 14 billion missing, much more missing. And what did she do? You've adjusted the law. And what's next? Will it be a modified constitution or a Bill of Human Rights and Freedoms? [[Time.]] I'm curious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u359	Thank you, thank you for keeping me. We also have Mr Aleš Dufek and I ask that Mr Vondráček be prepared, then Mr Marek Výborný. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u360	I confess, folks who are still present, I have only a small remark. I would suggest to whoever will in some way defend this law at the Constitutional Court to suggest as evidence that constitutional judges play from the very beginning to the end by recording our actions, which began at 10:00 a.m., we have midnight. It may take a few days. So that those constitutional judges would simply realize what the level of parliamentary democracy in the Czech Republic is and under what circumstances it is as if those Members were deciding when they were simply voting on a law. That subjective feeling of the Member, I think, is quite important. I really don't pretend to be any defender of this law, any advocate of the grounds that the opposition gives. I'm really just saying that it's such a bummer that we're here to talk to each other like this, that I'm suggesting that the Constitutional Court should judge this as a whole. As a whole, the level of negotiations that we set up here in this Chamber of Deputies a year ago. Period.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u361	I'll ask Mr Radek Vondráček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u362	Thank you for the floor. I volunteered at the moment when Minister Jurečka appeared when he said he was glad that we were discussing in factual terms, and I wanted to sum up our position in some way. I'm gonna turn away for a second and respond to my honored colleague. Well, it would be naive to assume that the Constitutional Court has not yet encountered such a thing. It would be naive to think that we did not commit these debates in the opposite guard. And five years ago, this same debate, even worse from my point of view, but that's just subjective perception, has been referred to by your party, your representatives, as proof of democracy and that democratic debate. And that we weren't involved and that we were the same way, so we were the bad guys. So please, it's gonna turn around again, then it's gonna turn around again. And those constitutional judges are familiar with all the tapes. I just wanted to recapture what's going on here. There's no state budget balance. There is a valid law, standard legislation which provides for the obligation of the State to pay a benefit or a pension if all conditions are met. This cannot under any circumstances be described as a loss. That you can change it as a coalition because it's long-term unsustainable, it's your holy right, you have a majority, you have taken responsibility in this state and you're carrying it, you're actually putting your name in it. But you can't do it in short notice. That's what this whole debate is about. Because reduced management means a significant intervention in the principle of protecting a parliamentary minority, which is just as good as the right of a parliamentary majority to take decisions and to decide by majority. You can do it, but you can't do it like this, because a state of legislative emergency must be an exception, not an exception to the rule. And I've been here for the fifth time in this election period, just like that in the energy bill, in the pandemic law, when we froze our salaries, it's just been a couple of times. [[Time, please.]] You just always say you're not happy about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u363	Thank you. President Výborný, then Mrs Ivana Mádlová, then Mr Babka. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u364	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Government, fellow Members, I would like to ask the power to respond to a number of speakers here. Please take a look at the Rules of Procedure, § 60 para. 1 which clearly describes what a factual point is. And take an example from Prime Minister Vondráček, who knows it and who is acting accordingly. I mean, here he said his interpretation, which he's got, I'm not gonna upset him, like, the fourth time today, okay. But please, he's reacting to someone who's been out before. But factual remarks really aren't for us to share here what our constituents are writing to us on social media, e-mails, text messages and the like. Include this, fellow Members, in the general debate. That's where it belongs. It's really not part of the actual notes. Because it is clearly said here: The Member may refer to a factual remark which responds to the debate. A procedural proposal concerning the manner in which the agenda is to be discussed shall also be regarded as a factual remark. However, factual opinions on the issue cannot be applied. So we're reacting to the previous speakers. Really, to tell you here what the voters are writing to us, as if I could quote here, so it really doesn't belong in the actual notes. Please respect the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-28-ps2021-055-01-001-901.u365	Thank you. I agree that we really stick to the factual points, but please, it's on both sides. There were also some factual points regarding how the Constitutional Court should behave, and so on. I quit, too. So let's really stick to the merit of the thing right now, and if we're quoting someone there, let's just pick it up right now, so it's obvious that this is part of the factual point. There. And I'd like to ask Mrs Ivana Mádlová.
