ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 63rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome to all of you. In order to record our participation, I beg you to sign up with your ID cards, for I have just checked you all out, or I have been notified who is applying for a replacement card. With a replacement card number 15, I'll vote. I don't have any other spare cards on file yet. The Organizing Committee of the Chamber of Deputies set out a proposal for a 63rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies on 10 March of this year. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on the same day. Now, my dear colleagues, I would ask you to be quiet, for, as I have already announced at the meeting of today's Gremium, I would like to call on you to honor the late war veteran, Army General Emil Boček, the former fighter pilot of the RAF, with a minute's silence. [[The present rise.]] Thank you. We shall now proceed to the designation of the two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we appoint Oldřich Černý and Member Michal Zuna. Does anyone else have a suggestion? I'm not seeing anyone logged in. Mr. Beitl may have accidentally pressed the facts, but he's not reporting in with the motion, is he? Initiating vote. I'm asking, who is there to identify these two verifiers? Who's against it? Voting number one, 139 in attendance, for 136, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that we have designated the 63rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies Members of the Oldřich Černý and Member Michal Zuna. I declare that until the beginning of today's meeting they asked to apologize for their absence from the meeting by the following Members: Babišová Andrea from the entire meeting day due to foreign travel due to health reasons, Bauer Jan from the foreign trip from the whole meeting day, Bernard Josef from the 15 hours for Renáta Lubomír, Zajíčková Lenka from the Olšáková meeting Eliška for working reasons, Dvořák Jaroslav from 15 Novák for Vondrák Ivo, Exner Martin from the Jáč Helena day due to the foreign trip, Fiala Radim from the Pavla svoboda Bohuslav for the Pavla Karel day, Horák Jiří from the major Golasowská day due to the Ivan of Levko travel, Jílková Marie from the 17 hours for health Marek, Heller Šimon apologizes for the whole Kučera Michal for the whole working day. From the members of the government apologize: Balaš Vladimír until 16 o'clock for working reasons, Baxa Martin from 18 to 23 o'clock for working reasons, Bek Mikuláš from the whole working day, Hladík Petr from the whole working day for working reasons, Lipavskýý Jan from the whole meeting day due to foreign travel, Nekula Zdeněk from the whole working day for working reasons, Síkela Jozef from the whole meeting day for personal reasons and Šalomoun Michal from 18 o'clock for working reasons. We will now proceed to the appointment of the 63rd meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. First, I'll introduce you to the suggestions of today's grémium. Firstly, we propose to exclude paragraphs 2 and 113 from the proposal for a programme, which is the House Press 252, the Government's draft constitutional law amending Constitutional Law No. 1/1993 Coll., Constitution of the Czech Republic, as amended constitutional laws, and Constitutional Act No. 110/1998 Coll., on Security of the Czech Republic, as amended by the Constitutional Act No. 300/2000 Coll., second and third reading. Secondly, to include new points in the proposal for a programme, namely the House's Press 387, the Government's Bill amending Act No. 325/1999 Coll., on Asylum, as amended; Act No. 326/1999 Coll., on the residence of foreigners in the territory of the Czech Republic and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended, and other related laws, second reading, in the block of Laws - second reading, legal deadlines are fulfilled, starting Tuesday 4. 4. the House's press may be discussed; Parliamentary Press 402, a proposal on the operation of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence to support investigations carried out by the International Criminal Court in connection with Russian aggression against Ukraine, and training and advice in Niger, into the News block, proposals and other points; a proposal for confirmation by the Chair of the Committee of the Chamber of Deputies to the report block, proposals and other items; a proposal for the election of members of the Council of the State Cinematography Fund to the polling points block. Thirdly, we propose the following procedure this week: today, this is Tuesday 4. 4. start negotiations on points from the Act block - second reading, in order: paragraph 9 of the draft programme, House press 352, Government bill on the protection of notifiers; paragraph 10 of the draft programme, House press 353, Government bill on the protection of notifiers - related; a new item at second reading, i.e. the House's press 387, the Government's proposal for a law on asylum if it is included; paragraph 3 of the proposal for a programme, House's press 283, the Government's proposal for a law on competition protection; the new item - report, House press 402, the presence of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence, if included, and paragraph 146 of the proposal for a programme, Revocation of Markéta Pekarová Adamová from the post of President of the Chamber of Deputies. [[14.10 hours]] Tomorrow, Wednesday 5. 4., discuss points from the Act block - first reading in the order: item number 16 of the draft programme, i.e. the House's press 377, the Government's bill on the remission of premiums; item 21 of the draft programme, House's press 384, the Government's draft law on extraordinary forgiveness and cancellation of debts; item 23 of the draft programme, House's press 401, the Government's draft law on regional development support; item 90 of the draft programme, House's press 365, the Parliament's draft law on road traffic, pursuant to § 90 para. 2. Then discuss the points of the Act block - third reading, in order: paragraph 106 of the draft programme, House press 311, Government bill on public health protection; paragraph 111 of the draft programme, i.e. the House press 346, Government bill on electronic communications; paragraph 105 of the draft programme, House press 289, Government bill, school law; paragraph 107 of the draft programme, House press 312, Government bill on association in political parties. At the latest at 13:45 pm discuss a new item, namely a proposal for confirmation by the Chair of the Committee of the Chamber of Deputies if it is included, and then voting points 125 to 127, which are: Proposal for changes in the composition of the bodies of the Chamber of Deputies, Proposal for appointment of members of the Board of Audit Board of the Czech Technical Agency, Proposal for appointment of members of the Supervisory Board of the Grant Agency of the Czech Republic and a new election point if it will be included, namely a proposal for the election of members of the Council of the State Fund of Cinematography. [[The noise in the Chamber persists.]] I beg you, colleagues, to be quiet. Please note that the results of the secret elections will still be announced on Wednesday, April 5, with time being specified by the President of the Election Commission. In conclusion, points were discussed at the 53rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies: paragraph 102, House press 249, amendment of the Public Procurement Act, third reading; paragraph 104, House press 288, amendment to the Staff Protection Act, third reading; paragraph 108, House press 328, Government draft Environmental Opinion Act, third reading; paragraph 109, House press 329, Government draft Environmental Opinion Act related, also third reading; paragraph 110, House press 330, Construction Act at third reading. Please cut them off, there is no need to vote on this. Points will not be included in the approved agenda. That's all on my side. Several Members are now reporting for the floor. I ask you once again, colleagues and colleagues, to be quiet. And the first person to sign up with the priority right is Mr Benda, followed by President Okamura. I ask you once again to keep your voice down so that we can hear the proposals that the President wants to make.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-000-000.u2	Madam President, gentlemen of the Ministers, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, I will make three proposals for a government coalition that have not been agreed on today's political grémium. First, to include two more prints in the second reading, namely point 12 of the current meeting programme, the Government Bill on Finance of the Czech Republic and amending the law 2018, budgetary rules; the House Print 369 as point 6 of today's programme and as point 7 of paragraph 11, the Government Bill amending certain laws in the field of defence, the House Print 368, also second reading. Only after these two points would the motion to appeal the President be followed. And tomorrow, after the points that are proposed for a solid classification from the Gremium, I propose that, at 13:00, we place firmly in the House document 1927, that is to say, Mr Köppl's appeal from the Radio and Television Broadcasting Council, with the following ballot points being staggered immediately after it has been discussed, but no later than 13.45. That's two, three changes I dare suggest.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-000-000.u3	Thank you. President Tomio Okamura is now signed in and followed by Mrs Maříková. Please, you have the floor. Colleagues and colleagues, please keep it down even more.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-000-000.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose as the first special item of today's House of Deputies meeting a point called the Purple Government to disturb 300 branches of the Czech Post. For the SPD, we refuse to cancel the Czech Post offices and the release of their operating staff. We reject Rakušan Interior Minister's inability to pay off honest mail and client staff from the STAN movement. The government intends to cancel 300 branches of Czech Post and release hundreds of operating employees. The 300 branches of the Czech Post want to cancel the ODS, Pirates, STAN, KDU-ČSL and TOP 09. These five parties are responsible for the fact that hundreds of thousands of citizens of the Czech Republic will lose a branch of the Czech Post in their cities. Under the leadership of the politicians of the current coalition government, only last year the Czech Post reported a loss of CZK 1.75 billion and even threatened to fall into insolvency. The SPD movement does not agree that its honest employees and its clients, citizens of the Czech Republic, should pay for the absolute inability of the Minister of Interior to manage the Czech Post. Czech Post is an irreplaceable public service for citizens, for example for seniors in the payment of pensions. At the same time, the only contact point in the municipalities and smaller cities is the citizen's contact with the state administration, the so-called Czech POINTs. There is no security of barrier-free access and at the same time strengthening branches that remain and on which there are already queues. Now other customers from those cancelled branches will be added to them. So 1.75 billion crowns to provide basic services for Czech citizens, the government does not have, but over 50 billion crowns on Ukraine and the Ukrainian government has. That's exactly where we have to say it, what and how. By the way, even the abuse of ill-adjustable doses, that's the law that the Fialův government refused us here last year, so that's where the billion crowns are, too. So the government chooses Ukrajinec and inadaptables and, instead, makes services worse for Czech citizens. That's the current situation. It's basically quite clear and simple as a slap. The SPD movement clearly states that we are on the side of Czech citizens and the Czech Republic. This proposal to cancel 300 branches of the Czech Post was not discussed in advance with the Association of Local Authorities or with the Association of Regions of the Czech Republic. For all of the above reasons, the SPD does not agree with the Government's procedure in the intention to cancel branches of the Czech Post. At the same time, the SPD is refusing to privatise the Czech Post and any part of it. We also reject the proposal for a Bianko check of CZK 8 billion, which the government, through the Minister of Interior, plans to use to transform the mail. So I would like to - in addition, there is absolute confusion, because now that citizens are rebelling, citizens are rebelling in those cities of the Czech Republic where the branches of the Czech Post are being disrupted... [[President Okamura is turning to the President because of the noise in the Chamber.]] May I ask?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-000-000.u5	Yes, I was just about to interrupt you, Mr. colleague, but I'm asking a colleague and colleagues to keep their conversations down or move them into the lobby. Then you may proceed. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-000-000.u6	Thank you. I could do it, but some coalition MPs here will say I'm screaming, so then I'd really have to scream, and I'd hate to. That means, now we hear that, after the citizens are rebelling, there is some sort of interference between a specific branch and perhaps another branch instead. Well, once again, this shows the absolute incompetence of the Czech Post management under the Interior Minister Vít Rakušan. [[14.20 hours]] You've replaced the Supervisory Board, this is the result. I must say that citizens really are very unhappy with this. Let me give you an example. I was in the Moravian-Silesian Region last week. We had a demonstration there, full of squares, Masaryk Square in Ostrava, and I was interested in the situation. The Moravian-Silesian Region, for which I am elected a Member, is the most affected by this ruling. There are 48 branches of the Czech Post to be canceled. Maybe three of them are supposed to be canceled in Trinka. Interestingly, when I specifically informed on the town of Třinec, which I also visited, there are canceled branches that have wheelchair access, which means they can go there as seniors or disabled fellow citizens, so moms and strollers can go there, but at the same time leave a post office that doesn't have wheelchair access. So the barrier-free, notabene where there's still parking, and it's left here by decision of government officials, or in the gesture of government officials, a branch is left, which even to the ground floor, where notabene aren't even letters yet, they're on the next floor, so even to the ground floor must be taken by the stairs. That means, basically, neither is the way the Interior Minister Vít Rakušan runs it, nor does it have logic, your proposal. And, of course, for all these reasons, this is completely unacceptable for us. So I would like to propose, as the first point in today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, a point called the Purple Government wants to cancel 300 branches of the Czech Post. I think we should discuss what your intentions are, because now, as I'm saying, we hear that something is that maybe some branches, so... you want to cancel 300, but in the meantime, they can swap those branches that you don't, so it's a mess. Now we're hearing 8 billion for transformation. What does that even mean in your concept? Because for the CZK 8 billion, it already seems to me that it is possible to buy one of those profitable mail order services and return the Czech Post very quickly to earn or hire an Austrian or German manager, because, as we know, the German PPL, originally Czech, German PPL, originally the Czech PPL, which now owns the German Deutsche Post, is in a huge profit of CZK 800 million. There's Austrian mail in profit, Polish mail in profit, so we can see that they're doing much better there. We'd like to know what the government wants with that $8 billion check. So this is the first point that we would like to place here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-000-000.u7	I'm gonna interrupt you again. Colleagues and colleagues, I'd like you to either move to the lobby or lower your voice. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-000-000.u8	As a second point, I would like to propose an extraordinary point in today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies a point called the Government Coalition of Petr Fiala wants a massive tax increase for Czech citizens and companies. I think it is really time for us to discuss this in the Chamber of Deputies, because what you're doing here this year, when you're constantly saying in the media that you want to make lives more expensive for all citizens of the Czech Republic, raise taxes, so I think it would be good to really discuss here in the Chamber of Deputies, what you're actually planning negative for those citizens, how you're actually going to make them more expensive. The fact that you're making them expensive, we can already see that because of you, there's expensive energy, expensive food, expensive housing, lack of medicine, and so on, but I think it would deserve you to discuss it with us here too, with the opposition. For example, the government movement STAN Vít Rakušana last week presented a proposal for a massive tax increase for Czech citizens and companies. Before that, the ODS introduced him, presenting a proposal for a massive tax increase for Czech citizens. This proposal, currently Stan, envisages the introduction of progressive taxation on personal income to a much greater extent and size than it is today. It also includes an increase in the corporate tax rate by two percent and an increase in the basic rate of value added tax from already high 21 percent to 23 percent. And, as we have noted, this tax increase, another substantial increase for all citizens of the Czech Republic, is also supported by TOP 09 and KDU-ČSL. The STAN Movement also proposes an increase in the personal income tax rate from 15 to 17 per cent and the introduction of new tax zones with 17, 21 and 31 per cent rates. If these dangerous proposals were implemented in practice, this would mean a further decline in the net income of all working citizens and their households and a sharp flat-rate increase in almost everything, goods and services. This is at a time when real wages have been falling steadily for more than a year and the standard of living of citizens and their quality of life is failing. Many working families, too, find themselves in income poverty because of the Fialův government - something totally antisocial and unacceptable. Economists also rightly warn of the fact that the substantial increase in consumer goods will lead to a further increase in the volume of purchases of Czech citizens in neighbouring countries, thereby endangering many domestic trades and trades, and, in the medium term, the revenue of the state budget. The STAN proposal is therefore also economically harmful and incompetent. Here I would like to point out that, again, KDU-ČSL, President Marian Jurečka, Minister of Labour of Social Affairs, spoke in the media that they want to increase the income tax on individuals. The ODS is talking about increasing real estate tax, which, of course, will plunge all classes of the population into other social and economic problems, because even in the country, seniors who don't have money nowadays often live in their real estates, houses, apartments, and, of course, through this, they get into other and other financial problems. So basically all - Pirates too - that means all government parties are already openly talking about tax increases, about further price increases for Czech citizens. Moreover, this is an absolute violation of the pre-election vows of the Fialův Government five-wheeler and the government's programming declaration, which, in our view, requires at least a new vote on trust in this government. However, in the opinion of our SPD, the nature and nature of these proposals would also justify the holding of early elections to the House, so that citizens of the Czech Republic can also comment on such essential matters. In addition, Petr Fiala's government has decided to use the loan from the European Union definitively. In particular, it is an astronomical loan from the European Commission in an incredibly high amount of EUR 2,9 to 11 billion, which means from CZK 69 to 265 billion. Here I would like to say that the SPD movement absolutely rejects the further debt of our country. The government leads us in the Greek way, which means that one day there can be state bankruptcy and dependence on Brussels. The money from this loan should be used to cut off cheap fossil fuels from Russia, namely the construction of solar or wind power plants, to build alternative pipelines and pipelines for the supply of much more expensive raw materials. As I say, the SPD is absolutely rejecting further debt to our country, even given this energy transformation. I'll explain right away. Firstly, it is another step that increases inflation. Secondly, the debt of the Czech Republic is already reaching very dangerous and difficult to repay. Thirdly, the very purpose of the loan, i.e. investment in an energetic transformation, is already questionable. I'm not saying we should be dependent on Russia. I have always rejected this here, and I was the only one in the last term who called for diversification of resources so that we would not depend on one resource. However, the Czech Republic can also handle this energetic transformation through its own resources if the state and government take full responsibility for the production, distribution and sale of electricity at affordable prices on the domestic market. CEZ needs to be nationalized, where experts estimate the expenditure of CZK 200 billion. When we look at the amount of CEZ's dividends, we see that the return would be very rapid and the state would also have a full impact on the pricing, price and distribution of electricity. Since it is not really normal that we are exporters of cheap energy, we have the most expensive energy in Europe due to the Purple government. We have, once again, all the prerequisites for this energy transformation, in our own way, especially through the state-owned CEZ company. We also fundamentally disagree with the fact that such a high loan is roughly in the volume of the current annual state budget deficit in the submission of the Fialův Government - that is the already astronomical deficit, the completely unprecedented deficit - this loan takes place without transparency outside the participation of the Chamber of Deputies, which is the government's responsibility for its actions. So the government completely without control of the Chamber of Deputies, astronomically indebts the Czech Republic and drives all citizens of the Czech Republic into a total debt trap. Our doubts are also shared by economic experts who draw attention to the exchange rate risks of such high credit in foreign currency. [[14.30 hours]] Our doubts are also shared by economic experts who draw attention to the exchange rate risks of such high credit in foreign currency. The SPD's movement categorically rejects the further indebtion of our state and the transfer of responsibility for the repayment of these debts by other governments and generations. The government is simply leading us the Greek way and to our dependence on Brussels. I would therefore like to propose as a second extraordinary point at today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies a point called the Government Coalition of Petr Fiala wants a massive tax increase for Czech citizens and companies. I think it's really time we had a public discussion here in the House, because you in the government are making decisions about these things that will affect all 10 million citizens of the Czech Republic very negatively, completely behind the back of the House, and I think that is simply unacceptable. As the third extraordinary point of today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, I would like to propose an item entitled Anti-criminal and bullying negotiations by Secretary of Defense Cernochová from the ODS against the Olympic winner David Svoboda. I would like to comment here on the events surrounding the Olympic winner David Svoboda and Secretary of Defense Jana Černochová, who are known as citizens - in my opinion rightly - as a fighter of war. First, let us say what Mr Svoboda has done, who, in addition to being an excellent athlete, is also a lieutenant in the army of the Czech Republic. In an interview on Czech Television, he said only that it is not impossible that our official propaganda may not always be true and that he understands the official recommendations of the International Olympic Committee. That's all. Neither of these claims is, of course, contrary to the Czech legal order. And that government propaganda is not true, I fully agree with that, because it was Prime Minister Fiala who told us here last spring that the Czech Republic was at war that he lied - he should apologize for that - he scared, he lied, he dragged us into war, just like the Minister did. But we're not at war, we don't want to be. So don't drag us into this war, and don't lie that we're at war. The year has passed and the Czech Republic is not in any war. But let's go to the case. The right to make statements like Mr Svoboda guarantees every citizen of the Czech Republic, including Mr Svoboda, the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, which is part of the Constitution of the Czech Republic. Now to Secretary Černochová. Talking to this person about decency or respect for other human beings is probably pointless. Something like this is missing in her arsenal. What we have to talk about is the law. Here it must be clearly stated that there is no legal provision in the Czech legal order which would give the Minister of Defence these powers. First, force officers of the Army of the Czech Republic to look at posters, paintings, collages, photographs, or other visual or audiovisual works. Second, force the officers of the Army of the Czech Republic to explain their personal, political or other positions to members of the armed forces of foreign powers. Thirdly, force the officers of the Army of the Czech Republic to visit members of the armed forces of foreign powers and listen to their political or other statements. Minister Černochová committed all these acts and informed the public about them herself. According to our legal experts, it is therefore highly likely that Minister Černochová deliberately committed a violation of several legal provisions in the performance of her duties, including several provisions of Act No. 40/2009 Sb., i.e. the Criminal Code. Something similar is completely unacceptable in the rule of law. That is why we have no choice but to propose in today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies to include an item entitled Anti-Lawful and Bully Act by Secretary of Defense Cernochová against the Olympic winner David Svoboda. The result of this meeting should be a resolution in which the Chamber of Deputies will order the Prime Minister to withdraw Secretary Černochová from office immediately. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-000-000.u9	The next one is registered with priority rights...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-000-000.u10	Mrs. Černochová was calling me here right now, and she said to me, "You'd like that. Mrs. Černochová, forgive me for calling you names. I don't get involved with you, and I guess these pub dog styles are normal in your ODS. Behave yourself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-000-000.u11	Mr Babiš has now signed up with priority rights, and then Mrs Maříková, who has already been announced, has only followed. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-000-000.u12	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment on the Czech Post, because this is a really long story. I invited historians or students or somebody on the networks yesterday to finally write the history of our country since the revolution. Today, those who were ten years old in November 1989 are 43 years old. This life is running so fast that we don't even remember - I don't remember - some things from September 2021. I completely forgot that our government decided to freeze politicians' salaries for five years in 2021. Then even the House approved it, but the five-wheeler knew the Senate was gonna blow it off the table. So short memory. The Czech Post would deserve a special chapter in that book, because this is actually an example of how traditional democratic parties destroyed this unique asset, unique. Why unique? Because if someone were to think after the revolution and go to Austria and maybe ask where they have a network of branches, they could have created a unique postal savings bank at the post office, where citizens would have taken care of everything. They'd get a pension, benefits, they could invest, they could save money. And how did it all turn out? It turned out that today the Czech state has no bank. We have not heard the word Czech Export Bank or EGAP since December 17, 2021, by the way. By the way, historically, you made an axe of 80 billion. Or the ČMZRB project - an attempt after everything sold out here to do something that would be in state hands. So if the Czech Post had a private partner, of course it would make it a fantastic company where everyone would go. Even in that place where the Czech Post is, someone could have built a retail store, and we should also have Biedronka, like we don't have Biedronka, we only have foreign chains. So it's just by the way. When did the material damage and destruction or damage of this asset occur? Let's go back to IPB time. Let's go back to the time when all the state banks here belonged to the state that destroyed them. That was the ODS, and then came the CSSD, which privatized them for a little bit. And after the commando's intervention in the IPB - and the IPB had the contract with the post office - ČSOB joined. Here's an article from 24. 8. 2010, headline: "Czech Post of lines for cooperation with ČSOB up to a billion a year." That's when ČSOB valued the business at 17 billion. Czech Post handed the most lucrative business over to private people - private individuals who made billions on it. [[14.40 hours]] And maybe we could also remember what happened in 2009, when the commission of CZK 300 million was paid here, the bank paid it out, then it was KDU-ČSL and ČSSD, for getting the contract for the next ten years. And then this contract, disadvantageous to the post office - here I read that even ČSOB pays 800 million a year for it, I don't know how much it pays now - so the further extension of the contract with the Czech Post was in June 2017 after Sobotka kicked me out of the government. What a coincidence. So once again: a fantastic asset, any private person would make billions on it, and the state or our predecessors, those parties democratic, traditional, they just did it so that they'd outsource everything. Outsourcing - every entrepreneur does insourcing, does everything himself, but the state always does outsourcing. Why? 'Cause sometimes it gets kind of noticeable. That's 300 mil out of it. Then they sent 200 million to some tax haven, and, of course, the police didn't find anything. So that's the history of the Czech Post. This is the most lucrative business we've had since the '90s. He's gone! That's not what we're talking about, and I'm talking about it because I've already noticed that the Minister of the Interior said correctly in one interview that the alarm situation was about mail management with Prime Minister Babiš and nothing happened. Well, Babiš as Treasury Secretary wanted to know what's going on in the mail, what's going on in there, what's going on in there, why is everything outsourcing, who's adding what? And when I didn't get the answer, I said, because even then, the mail was losing, that I, as the finance minister, wouldn't finance anything that wasn't transparent, and then we'd have the talks. So I'd really like to hear all these different comments about what the YES movement did and didn't do... The YES movement was in the first government that was controlled by ČSSD and parts of KDU-ČSL, and in the first government within our Ministry of Finance department we saved the airport, which was completely tunneled behind our predecessors. We saved ČSA from bankruptcy, once sold it to Topolánek for the price of one engine (?). We rescued the OKD that we bought for $70 million after Bakala blew it, 130 billion gone, okay? And we fixed Mero and Cheap. And all these companies that were in the Treasury brought up to 3.5 billion dividends to the state each year, because the state should do business like a family company, and in short, if it makes money, it takes a dividend. So please, the whole mail story is about - and now you can argue whether it was caused by the ODS, or then by the CSSD, KDU, but that was the founder of the TOP 09. And what happened there? The YES movement never, although we tried and even held negotiations - where I think Minister Hamáček offered Havlíček that he would give us the mail and that he would take the state's material reserves. Yes, the YES movement took care of the mail. And the weird transactions that were there that we heard about and didn't get answers, the different investments in logistics centers for $2 billion... I don't understand how it's possible that the post office has actually completely lost the market. And then a businesswoman came in, made a Zásilkovna, and it was gone. And now we even learn that the Czech Post wants to do some research for $40 million or ask clients that what? Well, you just missed the train. Then let the director sit behind the counter. I'm talking to the mailgirls in Pruhonica about what it's about. So you destroyed this fantastic asset. The best director in the history of the Czech Post Karel Kratina, former director of the HVB, great manager, there was the director and he had a great project. And then Topolánkův's government came and executed him. Yes, it ended September 30, 2008, because he wanted to create something. Today we can argue about how to move forward with the mail. This is history, it's a history of traditional democratic parties, and whenever I'm able to defend the YES movement that came into government and put these companies, state companies in order because we treated it like our own, because we didn't go there for bread and some prebends, but because we treated it with proper care. So I don't want to be the wiser here, yes. Last time Sobotka signed a contract with the bank in June 2017 for the next ten years and that is the most lucrative business, because simply the Postal Savings Bank is definitely the thing that the post office was supposed to do itself, the State was supposed to keep an eye on it, and it could really build a financial service center for all our citizens. We, as the YES movement, have decided today's position on the post office. We also call on the Prime Minister, the Government and the Minister of the Interior not to discuss the project of the abolition of 300 branches and the release of thousands of people. The seminar that was supposedly -- even Mrs Vildumetzová didn't get a proper word, we don't even know what you want to use the $8 billion for. The head of the department says it's some kind of loan. After all, the post office is worth billions, I don't know if it's worth tens of billions, but in any case, the building in the center of Prague is worth a lot if the post office - I don't know why the headquarters is sitting in the property - and at least it's worth more than a billion. So I really hope this isn't about closing up the mail, selling the properties to some friends again. And I'm not going back to Mr. Redl's visit to Mr. Knap, and then Mr. Rakušan responded... and so on. It just suggests that somebody's feeling some kind of business, and we just don't really agree with it. We want to propose a point here - I want to propose a point dealing with the situation in the Czech Post. We have a solution to this, and if the Director of the Post Office and the Home Secretary are unable to provide quality postal services to our citizens, let them pass all these ideas where they don't want to run the mail to local politicians. And this isn't about our politicians. Even ODS politicians and other parties are protesting. So, please, do not discuss anything at all, hand over the assets at the crown of the communal, the municipalities, and I am convinced that the mayors and mayors will manage effectively without harassing and making life difficult for our fellow citizens. So that's our proposal. [[14.50 hours]] Supposedly, the government is supposed to discuss it tomorrow. If, after such a long time of opposition except Ukraine, she has begun to communicate with us, or at least faces, Mr Jurečka solves pensions, then deal with us together in the mail. And we repeat again, the Mail Partner project is a great project, it worked, so why don't you give it to individual mayors and mayors? No branch needs to close, they're gonna deal with it, they're gonna figure it out, and you're not gonna have any political damage. So that's our proposal. Once again, we call on the government, the Prime Minister and the Home Secretary, to put it off in order to discuss it here. This is our solution, and this is the proposal for this point that I have put forward here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-000-000.u13	Thank you and I will just ask, Mr President, when do you want to include it?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-000-000.u14	Tonight. [[President: First item today.]] First point, yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-000-000.u15	Thank you and another with the application is Mrs Karla Maříková. Madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-000-000.u16	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I would like to propose a point on the inclusion of a point called the Distressing Post in the Karlovy Vary Region and it would be after a firm classification. Czech Post for savings from 1 July cancels its 300 branches. Thus, some 1,600 mailmen from about 25,000 present lose their jobs. It's supposed to be 14 branches in the Karlovy Vary Region. Let me just remind you that the Karlovy Vary region is the smallest of the population, we have less than 300,000 inhabitants. The measure is said to be linked to a decrease in interest in postal services. Before such a crucial decision, I would expect the Interior Minister to want to know also the views and arguments of the cities and should be conducted with the mayors of the debate, but there has not been any discussion before. The mayors had no further information from the Czech Post until the last moment before the decision which branches would be closed. The Karlovy Vary Region is structurally affected, year after year we deal with the tide of people from the region. The aim of the government should be to compare the standard of living of all regions, and that is precisely one of the measures, when the services that should be the standard will not be provided in our region to the extent and quality. Some people say it's only a few branches canceled, but please note that some people just don't do emails and data boxes. They're mainly seniors. Branches were claimed to have been selected for cancellation according to traffic, number of transactions and overall profitability of operation. The availability of urban public transport or wheelchair access was also important criteria. Interestingly, it is the post office with wheelchair access in Mariánské Lázně that is supposed to be canceled, and on the contrary, the one with steep stairs that the seniors fail to perform will remain. Guess whoever picked it didn't think much. Even now, after working hours, queues are formed at some branches. After this step, those queues will look like the comrades of the banana line. I understand that the Minister deals with the fact that the post office is in poor financial condition, but then I ask why no one has so far paid the costs of the post office for packages that he sent free mail to Ukraine in the first months of the war, which was about 50 million, as the Czech Post website says. If the mail is so bad, then the state should just refund every crown. In any private firm that wouldn't be successful, management would reach into the management that runs it. Why isn't it here? Why are delivery companies or people behind the bulkheads who are crappy paid? To defend it by entering the mail business is a competition that is far more successful and more flexible, it is only a defense of incompetent and generously paid mail management. If the mail was your company, I suppose if the business led you to collapse, you'd just fire him for an hour. The Minister did not come up with a comprehensive solution, canceling branches that may not have been lost at all, and thus the post office can get into even more trouble. If this government and the Minister have a clear conscience, at least one of the proposed points will pass to the Czech Post so that we can have specific questions for the Minister and he will answer them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-000-000.u17	Thank you, too. So whether to place firmly after the points already included? Yes, thank you. The next application is Mrs Šafránková. Madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-000-000.u18	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. As I have done so many times today, I would like to propose that two items be discussed on the agenda of this meeting, which I consider essential in terms of the need for current and very acute assistance to two of our citizens' most vulnerable groups, as the government is not doing anything in this area despite repeated promises. Firstly, point 29, which is House press number 9, is a proposal by the SPD to amend the Social Services Act and it is a proposal to increase the contribution to care for seriously disabled citizens dependent on the care of other persons in I. and II. the degree of addiction that last increased more than seven years ago. In December, here in the House of Government Members, they deliberately blocked the possibility of discussing this law properly at first reading by not applying to voting facilities, although they were present in the hall, and thus approaching its application into practice, which is extremely necessary. The only thing the five-police government has done in this regard is increase social services prices for those disabled citizens from 1 January, leading to further deterioration in their income situation, to a deterioration in the quality of their lives and to a deterioration in their health status. Colleagues, do you know, for example, how much is the allowance to care for disabled adults in the first degree, which are people who can't handle up to four needs of life? 880 a month. That's shame and disgrace. I propose to include this item as the second item in today's negotiations, or as the first item in tomorrow's Wednesday's agenda. Furthermore, I would like to propose to the House's agenda for this meeting, to pre-schedule the discussion of paragraph 79, which is House Press 266, also the proposal of the SPD Members, this time to amend the Act on State Social Support. This is a proposal to increase parental contribution and to introduce its annual automatic valorisation directly into the law. In the long run, families with the smallest children are one of the most vulnerable social groups, and this is all the more true at present, given the high inflation, which brings the real value of the parental contribution far below its 2020 level, when it was last raised. Once again, the government is not able to submit a bill to increase it itself, it only talks about it over and over again, and when it theoretically proposes some amount of increase in this contribution, it is a completely insufficient value far below inflation. In this context, I would like to remind you that last year the birth rate in the Czech Republic has dropped record, which undoubtedly has something to do with the fact that the social, economic and other security of families with the smallest children by the state is at an absolutely inadequate level and people are afraid to have children for these reasons as well. I propose to include this point as the third point of today's negotiations, possibly as the second point of tomorrow's Wednesday's agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-000-000.u19	I also thank you and another with the application is Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová. Madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-000-000.u20	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take the liberty of including two points, the first point entitled Czech Post, and I would like to say that you have certainly registered that the YES movement has pointed out the state of the Czech Post here several times, pointing out this also in connection with the adoption of the Data Box Act. [[to]] So I am very sorry at the moment that there is not one who should be here most, and this is the Minister of the Interior Vít Rakušan. [[15.00 hours]] Because I have performed here several times, I have requested the inclusion of the Czech Post point, we have announced that it is necessary to address the situation of the Czech Post, even in connection with the fact that from 1 January 2023 legal persons will be obliged to use data boxes and this will be reflected in the economy of the Czech Post. This item has never been included on the agenda, so we have asked for an emergency meeting. This extraordinary meeting was convened pursuant to the Rules of Procedure of the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Markéta Pekarová Adamová, who allocated 30 minutes for this meeting. Before this meeting, the Minister of the Interior suddenly convened a press conference at which he announced that the situation of the Czech Post was so bad that the Czech Post was threatened with insolvency. So I would like to say that the ANO movement has announced this, and it has never been able to discuss it here at the House plenary. And what follow-up steps the Interior Minister is taking at the moment, Vít Rakušan, we all see this live, and that he is not communicating with anyone - he says, of course, that this thing is in the hands of the Czech Post. That is absolutely not true, because whoever is responsible for the Czech Post is the one who is at the head of the Ministry of the Interior, and that is Vít Rakušan. I asked the Home Secretary last week through the report to stop this thing from happening so we could meet. He correctly replied that he would not meet with me on this matter concerning the cancellation of branches and the transformation plan, that he would present the transformation plan during April and June, and at that time he would communicate with the opposition, and last Friday the Minister of the Interior and one member of the STAN movement, Mr Hájek, called a seminar to the premises of the Chamber of Deputies. [[What's ……]] At this seminar, representatives of the Union of Towns and Municipalities, the Association of Local Authorities were given the floor - so if I would pass away that they are all active under the STAN movement, so at this moment the authorized director of the Czech Post, Mr Štěpán, who tried to tell us in half an hour that everything is wrong, nothing is wrong, everything is a problem and that in a way citizens should not dictate when they will go to the post office, when it will be open. In a way, he told us that the next step would be that the mail could only be opened two days a week or that the mail would be delivered once every three days. I got off at the seminar. I got that word in there. The truth is that I wanted to be taken away because I was told that I could only ask questions, not express myself in practical terms about what was said there. I was completely shocked by that. And I was shocked that we learned at the seminar, not that the loss under the head of the Interior Minister Vít Rakušan was a billion and a half in 2022, but she was a billion 750 million. At the same time, I tried to discuss with the Home Secretary that now that he's coming and acting like he doesn't really seem to represent the mayor, because the Ministry of the Interior, because there's a department of the public administration, there's always been a flagship of the mayors, but the current Home Secretary threw these mayors overboard. He is the one who tells me what the procedure will be, he could say to the Czech Post: Discuss it with individual mayors, bring me the analyses and then I will discuss what possible steps will be taken. I must say that only Mrs Budweiserová was invited to the seminar for trade unions, but the Czech Post trade union is ten, and I was surprised why the other representatives were not invited there, because the redundancies will be in thousands of figures. The minister keeps changing it. First it was 2,700, then it went down to 1,600. So if I take on how big those branches that want to close - and I would like to stress again especially for coalition politicians, that this closure should eventually take place on 1st July, so if you all realize that today is the beginning of April, and I think this is really unfair both to postal delivery companies and to the employees of the Czech Post behind the counters. Well, if you even look at that list, no one's almost done with management, layoffs are right within the position closest to people. The terrible thing is that Thursday to Friday, the mayors found out where the 300 branches were going to be canceled. Again, this procedure is absolutely unbelievable, unfair. And I have to say, and you see what we're learning from the territory at this point, what the mayor's and mayor's reactions are - and I don't blame them for being incredibly angry because, for example, the pirát and STAN put in their electoral program that the mayor is more than the minister. And we keep saying that the government's partners are mayors, they're partners in the territory. But the opposite is true. I mean, those mayors know what they want in their territory, and if they want to have it, let them have it. That's why I was in complete shock that we learned at this seminar that if the mayors wanted to run the branches themselves through the Post Partner, they would not be allowed to do so and allowed to do so. In a way, when we criticized that, for example, there are two branches in Mariánské Lázně, one is barrier-free and the other one has stairs - can I show you - so what do you think the Czech Post office has decided to close the branch? [[It shows a picture of Mariánské Lázně.]] Well, of course, where there's a lot of stairs and where those people who are sick or in a wheelchair, there's no way they're gonna get there. [[Leaves]] At the same time - and I could say a lot of such examples here at the moment - I have to say that at the end of the seminar I proposed to the Minister of the Interior to stop things from communicating with the mayors and, if necessary - because at the seminar it was said that the Post Office Partner project is administratively difficult for some mayors and for example for the Czech Post - so let's change it quickly legislatively so that it can be dealt with in an operational fashion and, if necessary, those branches at the Post Office Partner will pass. I must say, at that moment, it was from the Home Secretary without any response, I point out. And I am calling because, as an YES movement, we have also called an extraordinary Security Committee to the Czech Post, which was convened by President Žáček, and I am beginning to worry a little bit about this place because, according to the deadline, it was due to be called by Wednesday, calling it on Thursday, and I do not want to be such a prophet, but if it is not that tomorrow the government will want to strongly approve the 2,900 branches. [[15.10 hours]] I just want to say to the coalition that the way all the mayors are yelling right now, and everyone's screaming right now, and the Home Secretary promises that the representatives of the Czech Post will go there, they'll communicate with them, so if only 2,900 branches are approved to the government tomorrow, then it's over, there won't be any partner pošta, okay? So maybe that's why it's called for Thursday, because tomorrow the trial is gonna be over, and it's gonna be an incredible foul and an incredible betrayal against those mayors. But maybe I'm wrong. I would also like to say that what's happening here in the capital city of Prague is absolutely incredible. And I do not understand at all, and I would like to call on Mr. Mayor, Mr. Svoboda, if he even agrees with what is happening here in Prague. Certainly many of you here in Prague go to branches of Czech Post, those branches of Czech Post are really filled and how many times you stand there really long queue. I must say that Patrik Nacher, led by his colleagues today, issued a clear statement, published yesterday by all mayors of the city districts from Prague 1 to Prague 22, that he does not agree with this procedure in any way. And I would just like to say to you that, for example, in Prague 3, which has 85 000 inhabitants and has six branches of Czech Post, five are to be cancelled, which means that there will be one branch of Czech Post for 85 000 citizens. And I don't have to remind you, and Jana Černochová, as a successful mayor of Prague 2, will confirm to me that if it is said today that Prague 3 has 85 000 inhabitants, it has many more, because many of these people do not have permanent residence there, and we take it as a permanent residence. So I'm begging you, I'm begging all of you, let's deal with this. And, above all, what is so important that the Czech Post point should be included today is that the Minister of the Interior has made it clear here that until all the mayors and mayors are discussed, until the Mayors and mayors say if they want the branch under the Post Partner, so until then they will not bring the Czech Telecommunications Office's decree to the government. And that's what I want him to report to us here at the Chamber of Deputies plenary, and to promise it, because this process really seems incredible, and I'm saying it all over again, and I'm saying that if anyone were in the government today, and that's how it's done, I'd be screaming exactly the same as I'm screaming now. Thank you for your attention at the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-000-000.u21	Madam, thank you. Just a few more details, when do you want to place the Czech Post point?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-000-000.u22	I'd like to place this as the first point today, or tomorrow as the first point. I would like us to vote on both options. At the same time, Madam Vice-President, I would like to open one more thing, and I know that this meeting is starting today and will continue on April 18th, and it is lifting me up a little bit from the chair, or it is lifting me up a lot from the chair, and I would like to add one more point, called Program Declaration. I would like to include this as the first point today, or tomorrow as the first point, I would like us to vote on both options. I'm sure I don't have to tell you that this is the most important document. It's a document -- in a way, a cook, what this government will do. And when the government asked for trust, she gave us a great presentation of the program statement. We all got him on our desks, we could meet him. The fact that the government came a few weeks ago with a change in this programming statement, of course, can certainly do so, but I assume that this government is confessing to the House and should have such a programming statement if it has new parameters, so in the first case it should present it to the Chamber of Deputies. I'm going to ask you, one of you, if you've received the program statement, if you've received it, for example in printed form, with individual changes, and all the ministers, including the Prime Minister, should be able to make a clear statement on the new programming statement. So the second point, the Program Statement, on April 18th as the first point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-000-000.u23	Thank you, too, and another is Mr Radek Koten. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-000-000.u24	Thank you for the floor. Allow me to include a point entitled Restructuring of the Czech Post. I'm gonna give it a little bit of a reason around here. The Czech Post is basically dealing with some revenue deficit from the time of the covid. It was some 1.37 billion in 2020 and last year, 2022, it was some 651 million crowns. These are red numbers, i.e. the Czech Post is managing the loss. And it can be said that I have read from publicly available sources how the Czech Post has actually reached this deficit. It can be said that the tender was published directly on the website of the Czech Post, when the auction sold vehicles of the entire freight logistics, which, according to my information, is now provided by external companies, with the fact that the price for a kilometer of transport, whether they are packages or letters, has been recovered there - until it has become shady. Exactly, it's kind of an outsourcing for someone, for a friend, I don't know if the last minister, or if the service was properly competitive, in any case, the freight transport, which provides parcel transportation and ensures the transport of letters, is now handled by an external company. As far as the sale of buildings is concerned, somewhere on the Internet, I've noticed that the buildings that are going to be sold, so the total amount that should be collected by selling those buildings should be 750 million. As far as restructuring is concerned, restructuring, according to the government, should cost CZK 8 billion. I don't quite understand it, because part of the restructuring should also be the division of the Czech Post into at least two parts, one should be letters and the other should be some kind of parcel part, or I don't know what I would call it. It seems to me that the things that would be profitable would just be privatized for some maybe known government friends, and the nonprofit part would remain the state, and maybe including data boxes, I don't know what the idea is. But anyway, I'm surprised at the amount of $8 billion. I would very much like to ask the Minister, because if the historical property of the Czech Post sells out, and the buildings had the Czech Post for even 150 years, so it can be said that the tradition will actually be sold and some barrier-free branches will be closed, so I wonder how it will take place here in Prague, because specifically here at the Chamber of Deputies in Josefská Street and plus at the Újezd will close both post offices, so there will be another post office here in Dejvice for the area, so I wonder how to get there too. And I think it is appropriate to ask the Minister how he intends it and how the government will decide it. So I would like to include this as colleagues, either as the first point in today's negotiations or as tomorrow's negotiations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-000-000.u25	Thank you. Another with the application is Mr. Karel Sládeček. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-000-000.u26	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. milý dáma and gentlemen, I propose a new item on the program, which is the unthinkable cancellation of Czech Post offices. The government intends to cancel 300 branches of Czech Post, of which 56 in the Moravian-Silesian Region, i.e. in my region. This makes the Moravian-Silesian region, which also belongs to the regions with the oldest population, the most affected. Czech Post is an irreplaceable public service for seniors, for example when paying pensions. Six of the eight branches of the Czech Post will be cancelled in the city district of Ostrava-Jih, i.e. more than 100,000 inhabitants of the territory will serve only two branches of the Czech Post. In my opinion, it is unrealistic for two branches to serve 100,000 or more than 100,000 inhabitants. It would be nice if Minister Rakušan sat down for at least eight hours at the counter of one of the post offices in Ostrava-South to hear it, i.e. to hear the views of our fellow citizens. I propose to include this point as the first one after the fixed points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-000-000.u27	Thank you, too, and another with the application is Mr Vích. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-000-000.u28	Good afternoon. Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I would like to propose a new item on the agenda of this meeting entitled The Government Procedure in the Transformation of Czech Post Offices in the Liberec Region. Minister of Interior Rakušan decided to cancel the circus of 300 branches of the Czech Post and release 950 employees and other hundreds to release in logistics. The reason for this is the decline in the Czech Post administration, when last year it was CZK 1.75 billion. The Czech Post even threatens insolvency. I must clearly refuse that its honest employees and its clients - citizens of the Czech Republic - pay for the inability of the Ministry of the Interior to deal with the Czech Post's management. Czech Post is an irreplaceable public service for citizens, especially for seniors in the payment of pensions. At the same time, the only contact point in the municipalities and smaller towns is the citizen's contact with the state administration within the so-called Czech POINTs. Therefore, I refuse to cancel any branches of the Czech Post and the release of their operating staff within the Liberec Region. In addition, Czech Post has the potential to be financially self-sufficient and profitable in competent management. It can provide logistics, transport, shipping and parcel services, which are very desirable on the market and for which the Czech Post has the necessary personnel and material equipment. The problem of the Czech Post is too many leading positions with above-standard salaries, which are at the expense of financial evaluation of delivery companies and workers at bulkheads. 13 branches are to be cancelled in the Liberec Region, 6 in Liberec in Vesec, Vratislavice, Františkov, Kunratická, Machnín and Růžodol and 7 in addition to the already mentioned Liberec also in Česká Lípa, where three branches are to end, in Jablonec two, but also in Turnov and Rokytnice nad Jizerou. So I'm asking, how was the key determined in determining the number of these broken branches in the individual regions and in the Liberec Region? Why was this proposal not discussed in advance with the captains, mayors and mayors concerned, or with the Association of Local Government of the Czech Republic? I would also like to ask how the strengthening of those branches that remain will be ensured, there are already queues on them today, and now there will be other customers from the disrupted branches, and also what is the concrete plan to use the 8 billion crowns for the transformation of the Czech Post? These are the reasons and I ask for the inclusion of this point in today's meeting as the first point after the already fixed points. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-000-000.u29	Thank you, too, and another with the application is Mrs Štefanová. Madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-000-000.u30	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose to include a new point at the House's meeting, a point entitled The Still Enduring Problem of Drug Lack in the Czech Republic. For many months people in the Czech Republic have repeatedly and still faced a shortage of basic medicines and have to go around several pharmacies, often tens of kilometers apart, and often there is no cure. Hospitals and other medical facilities also report certain problems. We repeatedly include this topic in the intercession of both oral and written and extraordinary meetings, which deal exclusively with this problem, was interrupted after a short period of time and moved indefinitely. This week's interview isn't even at this meeting. And I think it's such a serious subject that we need to talk about it here at the House plenary for a proper meeting. That is why I want to include this issue as a separate point so that we can properly discuss what the current situation is and how long these problems will last, and especially what will happen next. I'm talking about the penicillin outage in particular. We repeatedly hear from the media that negotiations are ongoing and that drugs are imported extra in some amount. However, this solution is completely inadequate and cannot be addressed simply by importing extra drugs that have been missing for several weeks. We have also heard from the Minister of Health that there will always be a variety of medicines on the market that contain the same active substance. However, in the case of a long-term outage of penicillin, there is no option that could be used instead of this antibiotic without long-term consequences. I would like to hear the results of these negotiations and the necessary systemic changes so that the Minister of Health can introduce to us what concrete steps he is taking to prevent this situation from happening again. How is monitoring of supplies of pharmacies, warehouses and monitoring of production and supplies addressed? The production of drugs in the Czech Republic and the production of various forms of pharmaceuticals from components directly in pharmacies need to be encouraged as much as possible. And even there, I wonder what steps the Ministry has taken, implemented and whether it is addressing this page at all, i.e. supporting the independence of the Czech Republic in this respect. Therefore, I would like to include this point as item number 1 at today's meeting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-000-000.u31	Thank you, too, and with the last application, Mrs Pošarová is here. Madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-000-000.u32	Hello. I would also like to propose a new point, namely the Czech Post in the Plzeň Region and their interference. By the end of 2015, dozens of postal buildings were expected to be sold and the general part of the established postal network was planned to be transformed into franchises, something like the Posta Partner project today. However, with a distance of years, we can already say that this attempt to save the post office, but rather only to the public, the fiction of such an attempt did not work. Economic loss of mail in 2022 could thus increase to a billion and three quarters. However, state property concentrated in the Czech Post will be sold further. Qualified and erudized employees will lose their jobs and citizens will lose access to some basic postal services, not only because of the opaque interests of some antisocial politicians and political entities. For an incomprehensible reason, I learned the fixed number of closed branches that it had to be 300. If one is canceled or one is actually left, another must be cancelled. It doesn't make any sense at all. Why didn't you deal with the mayors? They learned on Friday morning before the seminar that maybe I'll say in Klatovy three mails out of four will be canceled. Why didn't you deal with the mayors? Why have the mayors of specific cities not been dealt with? And the paradox is that it was the STAN movement, which in 2012 promoted even to have 3,400 branches in the Czech Republic. And now it's the STAN movement that wants to cancel 300 branches. And what's the recipe for saving? CZK 700 million per year will be saved for the cancelled 300 branches. So if we figure out that 816,000 letter orders will be settled in a day, then we just have to increase it by less than 4 crowns by a single transaction. Thus, the loss of 700 million crowns will be compensated and the mail can be and work. [[15.30 hours]] Another problem why the Czech Post got into a larger loss - the energy price had an impact on it, so let's choose our own pricing. Czech Post is a service of the state, duty. We learned at the seminar that unfortunately thanks to digitization, the post office is losing hundreds of millions to billions. So on the one hand, we have an issue for digitization, and on the other hand, we will reduce the income of the Czech Post. That's economic dilettantism. And the possibility to change Czech mail to the Partner Post is an impossible term, it can't really be done. We want mayors and mayors to be able to express themselves, and then some transformation has been made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-000-000.u33	Thank you, Madame, and now with the right of priority, Minister Rakušan will speak. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-000-000.u34	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will start by saying one sentence, which will certainly be a deliberate provocation: those branches should have been closed a long time ago. The post office has been in loss continuously since 2018 and since then the interest in postal services defined by the law defined by the universal service, as we - state - have been ordering them. We as a state say what we want from the Czech Post. That's the law, that's the universal service. And since 2018, the interest in state-defined postal services has fallen by 40 percent. The concept of Czech Post, as it works now, has simply survived a long time ago. The concept of Czech Post in today's form is not sustainable. And you know what was missing to define the concept of the Czech Post New? Political courage was lacking. That's what our government is working on right now, which, of course, we're going to consult with the opposition, and that all comes from what's going to have to happen. We're gonna have to change the legislation. In order to be sustainable as such, we must change the legislative framework for the functioning of the Czech Post. After many years of doing nothing, we will make an incision that the Czech Post needed long ago. And why was the political courage lacking? Because it's an unpopular move. Of course, this raises negative responses, and that, of course, is something that, if a bold move is taken, it has to be counted on. Every change is unpleasant. Of course, we got used to everyone having their mail around the corner, even when we didn't need it. It's an unpopular step, but populists don't take unpopular steps on principle. The example of the Czech Post clearly shows that speech about reforms, slimming the state, saving and efficientness is often just the speech and deed that has escaped. The example of the Czech Post shows that in some cases attitudes are only a pre-election pose, and in some cases they are accompanied by a specific act. The example of the Czech Post will show who wants to work and who cares about cheap political points. I'm sure you can't earn cheap political points to shut down branches. But I'm not going to be a cheap collector of such political points. To the fact that the transformation plan had already been approved by the previous government and we were supposed to implement it - do you know what the transformation plan is? The transformation plan is not an ideal intention to divide Czech mail into two institutions. But the transformation plan is not even to cross out 300 branches that will cease to exist. Firstly, the transformation plan is a new legislation that will regulate what the Czech state wants and needs from the postal institution in the 21st century. The transformation plan is a clear definition of what we want the Czech Post to do in its branch network, which is still the most extensive in the whole European Union when 300 branches are cancelled, what we want from this branch network - that it is supposed to be the touch of the digital world in regions that have problems with the availability of basic state services. We need to discuss how we will finance the new model of functioning of the Czech Post. It's a transformation plan. That's what we'll be presenting by the middle of this year. This is something that is a responsible step towards keeping postal services in the regions, because if we hadn't decided to do nothing and just continued to step on the ground, there wouldn't be any postal services in the regions. Example from neighbouring countries: we have 30 branches in the Czech Republic, Slovakia 26, Germany 21, Poland 20, Austria 19. We cannot stay with a model that is clearly economically unsustainable. Put yourself in the role of any manager. You have the largest branch network, you have financial losses, you have poorly paid employees, you have services that clients are not satisfied with. What's the conclusion? Either such an institution has no viability, or such an institution needs significant and fundamental structural change. The government of the Czech Republic has, of course, decided to do this second solution, because mail as an institution makes sense. The post office provides basic civil service in regions where the state will not reach otherwise. And if we're now saying that these 300 branches are something we can't handle that will cause resistance in the regions, I understand the mayors. I've been concerned for almost ten years, and in any case every such decision hurts, every such decision is unpleasant. But the idea of starting for mayors and agreeing with them, which 300 branches within the Czech Republic will be cancelled, is illusionary. At this point, the Czech Post team, the managers of the Czech Post, is going to see each individual mayor and mayor, where the branch of the Czech Post is canceled. Of course, there will be individual criteria according to which branches have been cancelled, which basic framework defines the Czech Television. By the way, there has been extended distance from the nearest Czech Post from 2 to 3 kilometers plus there are, of course, other accompanying criteria, which the Czech Post will, of course, explain to each mayor. If there is any error in that list, the český Post, as it said in advance, is ready to talk about the particular branch. Not about the number of 300 branches, but in the field, if the mayor, the mayor, makes some valid argument and convinces that a suitable branch has not been selected, then the Czech Post has, of course, the space to change the particular branch. I've heard here about the availability of postal services in the region. It's just the opposite! After all, the philosophy was that the Czech Post is not disturbed where there is only one branch. That is, if anyone here is chasing small towns and small towns, they have not touched this change at all and do not concern it. On the other hand, the postal service was preserved in small villages and small towns, because the post office itself was unique, the only one. [[15.40 hours]] I understand, of course, the mayors, and I know that this measure is unpleasant, but I insist and stand by the fact that this measure, although unpleasant, was necessary. And once again, the transformation doesn't equal the cancellation of branches. Transformation is the entire transformation plan for the distribution of mail into two parts, defining its meaning, new legislation and funding framework. Of course, the opposition will be invited to do so. I have heard various offers here, I look forward to constructive negotiations and a whole range of good offers. There were some notes about business plans. Well, I don't know who wanted the Czech Post Office, which was already in the shit, to sell the Postal News service for some 900 million crowns. They were big media homeowners here in the Czech Republic. That was the real business interest we're talking about here. And we stopped this business interest. This will not happen so that the Czech Post, which is running into huge problems, gets into a situation where it will still buy the Postal Newspaper Service from big media moguls here in the Czech Republic for 900, 600 million. They may be sorry, but such economic suicide is certainly not the time for Czech Post to go to. There's speculation about the sale of property. Of course, the property of the Czech Post including the aforementioned Jindřišské will certainly undergo a thorough examination, which is necessary for the Czech Post, and Czech Post will certainly start with those properties that are of great value, that is logical, but first these properties will be offered to cities and municipalities, the Mayors and Mayors will be asked whether such property on their territory will be willing and able to be used for any other purposes. Then we talk a lot about the transformation costs. It's not like the state takes 8 billion and now it's gonna put them blindly in the Czech Post. That's money, the transformation costs that mail borrows, I repeat, it borrows, in most cases, from commercial institutions that are already drawing money from. Ask our predecessors why they didn't pay the post office for universal service, why in recent years the post office had to borrow year after year from commercial institutions to survive. It's been a matter of responsibility for at least the last eight years. Ask our predecessors why the post office as one of the few businesses, the state enterprise, was not paid even the covido compensation costs, which were promised to employees on their salaries. Those are the questions that have to be answered here. Why has nothing happened to the Czech Post for the last eight years? Well, I'm getting to the beginning of what I said: political courage was lacking. We lacked the courage to face the fact that we live in another world, that we live in a world that is becoming digitized and that 3,200 branches no longer want to identify the European Union, because there is a condition for all the next notification to reduce the scope of the branch network. And yes, without that, the český Post wouldn't really survive at this point. I understand the opposition that you did not want to burn your fingers with the restructuring of the Czech Post. I don't agree with it, I don't agree with it, but I understand politically. For eight years, nothing happened, although the predictions were quite clear. I invite you to join us in a constructive debate about the Czech Post, for which you will have many opportunities on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. At the same time, please don't try to be a general after a battle you yourself didn't have the courage to lead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-000-000.u35	Thank you, Minister. Mr Nacher is now on the list and then Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-000-000.u36	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have priority rights, so I can't talk about anything, so I'm gonna make a point and then I'm gonna justify it. That point is a financial justification for the cancellation of branches and it is in direct response to the previous speech by the Minister of the Interior, because I listened very closely to him. First of all, I would like to ask whether I can take this speech as the opening of the debate, and that some point will therefore be approved, because if not, Members without priority rights are limited in the possibility of reacting in some way, because we are at the agenda point. Let's make a gentleman's deal that from the draft points, one of them here in a minute, I'll make a statement that one of them will approve, if it's gonna be the first point or tomorrow, so let's make a deal and then let's talk about it normally openly. Or tell us you're gonna kill all those proposals, but after the show on the agenda, however happy I am that the minister has spoken, he can't be answered. My point of financial justification for the cancellation of the branch, well, for me - I also asked about it at the seminar where I was - for me you have two options that go against each other. Either this is really about finding financial savings, or it is about securing these services throughout the Czech Republic, including smaller municipalities. This is not really going to work together, Minister, because at the moment when it comes to savings and at the same time you cancel branches in larger cities, we are getting into a spicy situation that then to one branch, that one branch stays in a village that has, for example, 2, 3, 5,000 inhabitants, but at the same time, as my colleague Jana Vildumetzová has already said here, there will be one branch in Prague 3, which has 70,000 inhabitants. It is clear from this that the economic reason is not there and cannot be. After all, services for 70,000 people and services for 7,000 people are diametrically different. And my question, and I would like to fill it with that point, is whether the Czech Post has calculated CZK 700 million in addition to the savings I learned at the seminar, and how much they will lose in revenues especially from clients in larger cities who will stop walking and using the postal services, because when there are queues somewhere today, and now I am talking about Prague, I will not repeat here that such a large Prague 8 has 3 branches and has over 100,000 inhabitants and cities that have a third of the population of Prague 8, they have the same number of branches, so at that moment what happens? Even these people will stop going to the post office, stop using postal services, and it's some proven loss, some lower income. I asked honestly about it at the seminar, and I didn't get the answer. I don't think the Director of the Post Office understood my question. In other words, it's not just about the $700 million savings at the moment you cancel it in a place where there's more clients than where you leave the mail, if we understand each other. I'm not saying cancel the mail in small municipalities, but at the same time it can't be that the reason is the financial savings when you cancel it where the population is most dense and leave it where the population lives less. It just goes against each other. Plus, I dare say it should be the other way around, that it should first The Czech Post was supposed to communicate with the mayors, the mayors, and, as you can see, the mayors' statement in Prague 1 through 22, so that's where it goes politically across. This isn't a coalition battle trying to describe it. It was criticized by all the mayors, and a number of mayors are there from ODS, from TOP 09 and so on, for YES. That means it was supposed to be the other way around. First to communicate, then to make some decisions and then to make a second round, if necessary. I just noticed...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-000-000.u37	Mr. Ambassador, it seems you just turned around, so the O.R. calmed down. Please continue. I ask my colleagues to keep quiet in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-000-000.u38	Well, thank you. I hope that doesn't mean that I'll have my back to the microphone to keep the room quiet. But thank you. [[15.50 hours]] I just noticed a moment ago that the first change had already taken place in Liberec, Vratislavice nad Nisou in Liberec. Well, that's the question. Is this how it's supposed to be? I'd say it's going to extend from 2 kilometers to 3 kilometers, which in Prague, you just can't take into account for me at all. So this is the right way? And now they're gonna take it back individually? Now who? Who will have better lobbying, or will it be sidelined, or in what way? Do things, such as barrier-freeness, be taken into account, as has been said here? Do things such as technical unique monuments, such as pipeline mail in Prague, take into account there? These are all things that are important. Does it take into account the fact that the branch is in the mall? That's what I asked at the seminar, because a whole bunch of people can ask about the services on weekends because they won't get to it for a week. And that's just open stuff, open questions. I even noticed somewhere that it was a purely freshly opened branch in a newly renovated railway station, now I don't know where it is - I feel Opava, if I remember. Isn't that right, Opava? [[Voice from the diaper: Opava.]] Is it true, Opava, that this branch of this newly opened office should be cancelled? That means there's a lot of questions. I think it would be fair that I end it so that only one point can be placed, but let it be included so that we can have regular fun, ask regular questions, because really the issue maybe somewhere in North Moravia can be completely different from what is happening in Prague. So I would like to ask you to include a point Financial justification for the cancellation of branches in response to what the Minister said, as the first point today or as the first point tomorrow, which is 5 April. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-000-000.u39	Thank you. Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová is now registered and then Mrs Pastuchová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-000-000.u40	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to add one more point in relation to the response to the Minister of the Interior, Vít Rakušan, by the name of the Minister of the Interior, does not consider the mayors to be his partners. Minister, I would call your political courage from this place incompetence and incompetence, because mayors are partners in the territory and they know what they want in their territories, and they answer to their citizens within the council because the citizens have chosen those representatives. I expected that if you got off here, you would make it clear that you would not bring the Czech Telecommunications Authority's decree to the government tomorrow. You made it clear here that tomorrow, or some other day, you will cancel 300 branches, and those mayors will never be able to set up those branches again, even through the Posta Partner project. This can't be happening! If the mayor wants to do this in his community, in his office, you have no right - you have no right, Minister - to forbid him, okay? And if they want to get involved, financially, with their efforts, I say again, let them. And the incompetence is mostly in the way you chose those 300 branches. The fact that my colleague Patrik Nacher here today says that he's gonna leave his mail open in Wroclaw, and you're always saying that you haven't seen the list, and Martin Půta brags here that his intervention has succeeded in not closing the mail, so what am I supposed to think? That they knew ahead? It's three days on Facebook that the mail won't close in Wroclaw. So did you know about it or did you not know about it? What am I supposed to think of all the other steps you're taking, and you're saying it's gonna bring savings? Please, colleagues and colleagues, look into the materials. When the 300 branches close, the savings will be CZK 700 million. And if the Home Secretary here says the quality and availability of postal services won't get worse, he's lying. The quality just gets worse. And let's face it, digitalization isn't at a level that just shuts down the branches. Leave it to the mayors and the mayors to tell them. But you didn't make this place. You said you understood the mayors. You don't understand them. Rename it your starosta movement because you're not the Home Secretary who thinks the mayors are his partners. And that's all I'm gonna say because I have to say, Mr. Secretary, shame on you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-000-000.u41	Thank you. Mrs Jana Pastuchová is now registered. Before I give her my word, I will read my apologies: Ondřej Kolář apologizes from 15.15 to 16.15 hours for work reasons, Kovářová Věra from 17 o'clock for personal reasons and Mr Špičák from 15 o'clock for work reasons. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-000-000.u42	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. So I would suggest to the agenda of today's meeting after the discussion here a point called Error or error in the cancellation of branches of the Czech Post. I am from the Liberec Region and I know how many branches are cancelled there, and I know that the mayor from Česká Lípa also sent a letter to the Minister, who warned him that the post office where the depot was displayed was cancelled, so it is a bit illogical. It's got two planes. I am from the Liberec Region and I am glad that the post office in Wroclaw will eventually stay there, even if it is less than 3 kilometers to Liberec. But one thing puzzles me is that somewhere in the media they're writing that there's been a mistake, and I'm amazed that there's been a mistake right where the mayor is the mayor, the mayor is Mr. Martin Půta for the starosta, and on his Facebook he had it about four, five hours after the release of the list, Senator Canov, who's also behind the starosta. So I'm gonna be really happy if we find out any more mistakes about where this happened, how it's gonna be fixed, because, as I read in the media, they have 30 days to communicate about it, but with the fact that they exchange mail for mail, it's not possible that one post will need to be converted into a Partner service. So I think that a point of error in determining the interference of the mail might be worth wondering how this error could have happened at all. But the mystery is that this mistake and correction within three or four hours occurred where the starosta rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-000-000.u43	Thank you. Is there anyone else reporting with an amendment or a supplement to the proposal for a programme? It's not like that. We would now proceed to the vote on the individual proposals in the order in which they were submitted. First, proposals from the Gremium. If there is no objection, I will vote on all proposals at once from the Gremium so that we vote on these proposals with one vote. I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby. I will repeat once again that we will vote on the proposals from the Gremium with one vote, if there is no objection. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking... [[Applications from the diaper for check-out.]] Sorry, I declare this vote (number 2) confusing. I'm picking up an application for a check-out. So I'm going to check you all out, and I'm going to ask you to rejoin your I.D. cards. We'll wait for the number of entries to settle. We will therefore now vote on proposals from the Gremium. Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 3, 162 Members and Members signed up, for 161, against no one. The motion was accepted. [[16.00 hours]] We will now vote on individual proposals, as has been said here in plenary. The first proposal is the proposal by President Benda, who proposes that item 12, House press 369, which is the financing of defence, I apologize, be placed on the sixth point today. [[He's coughing.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 4, 169 Members and Members signed in, for 155, against 14. The motion was accepted. The next proposal is again President Benda's proposal, which proposes item 11, House press 368, which is an area of defence, to include as item seven on today's day. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 5, 169 Members and Members signed up, for 154, against 14. The motion was accepted. Another is President Benda's proposal, which proposes to include a new point, House document 1927, which is Mr Kepl's appeal. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 6, 169 Members and Members of Parliament signed up, for 94, against 74. The motion was accepted. So we've placed a new point. We would now vote on his solid inclusion for tomorrow at 13 o'clock. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 7, 169 Members and Members signed up, for 93, against 76. The motion was accepted. The next proposal is the proposal by President Okamura, who proposes to include a new point called the Fialův Government to disturb 300 branches of the Czech Post. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 8, 169 Members and Members signed up, for 75, against 43. The proposal was a voice-- Mr. Pražák for the vote. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-000-000.u44	Thank you. Good afternoon. I'd just, uh, vote number six, I'm against it, I'm up for high school, and I'm not questioning the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-000-000.u45	Yes, thank you, for the tape. We will therefore continue to vote. President Okamura proposes to include a new point in the Government Coalition Petr Fiala wants a massive tax increase for Czech citizens and companies. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 9, 170 Members and Members of Parliament signed up, for 77, versus 86. The motion was denied. The next proposal is again the proposal by President Okamura, who proposes to include a new item called the Anti-Law and Bully Meeting of Secretary of Defense Jana Černochová against the Olympic winner David Svoboda. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 10, 171 Members and Members of Parliament signed in for 67, versus 86. The motion was denied. President Babiš proposes to include a new item entitled Solution of the situation in the Czech Post. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 11, 171 Members and Members signed up, for 76, against 87. The motion was denied. Mrs Maříková proposes to include a new point of the Post Office Breaking in the Karlovy Vary Region. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 12, 171 Members and Members signed up, for 77, against 79. The motion was denied. Mrs Šafránková proposes that item 29, House press 9, the Social Services Act, be placed either as a second item today. Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 13, 171 Members and Members of Parliament signed up, for 76, against 40. The motion was denied. And the second option was the inclusion of this House press as the first point on Wednesday. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 14, 171 Members and Members, in favour of 76, against 63. The motion was denied. Mrs Šafránková also proposes that item 79, House press 266, which is the Act on State Social Support, should be included in the first option as the third point today. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 15, 171 Members and Members of Parliament signed up, for 76, against 46. The motion was denied. The second option is the inclusion of this point as a second point for tomorrow, that is, Wednesday. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 16, 171 Members and Members of Parliament signed up, for 76, against 71. The motion was denied. So we voted both options. [[16.10 hours]] We will now vote on Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová's proposal, which proposes to include a new point called Czech Post. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 17, 171 Members and Members signed in, for 77, against 80. The motion was denied. The next item, proposed by Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová, is the inclusion of a new item entitled Program Declaration. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 18, 171 Members and Members of Parliament signed in for 76, versus 86. The motion was denied. Mr Koten proposes to include a new item entitled Restructuring of Czech Post. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 19, 171 Members and Members signed in, for 77, against 77. The motion was denied. Mr Sládeček proposes the inclusion of a new item entitled Unthinked cancellation of branches of the Czech Post. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 20, 171 Members and Members of Parliament signed up, for 77, against 68. The motion was denied. Mr Vích proposes to include a new point in the Government's procedure as part of the transformation of Czech Post branches in the Liberec Region. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 21, 171 Members and Members voted in favour of 76, against 75. The motion was denied. Mrs Štefanová proposes to include a new point entitled The ongoing problem of drug shortages in the Czech Republic. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 22, 171 Members and Members voted in favour of 75, against 72. The motion was denied. Mrs Pošarová proposes to include a new point entitled Czech Post in the Pilsen Region and the cancellation of branches. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 23, 171 Members and Members of Parliament signed up, for 77, versus 74. The motion was denied. Mr Nacher proposes a new item entitled Financial justification for the cancellation of branches of the Czech Post. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 24, 171 Members and Members of Parliament signed up, for 76, against 79. The motion was denied. Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová proposes to include a new item The Minister of the Interior does not consider the mayors to be his partners. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 25, 171 Members and Members signed up, for 77, against 82. The motion was denied. Mrs Jana Pastuchová proposes to include a new point entitled Error in the cancellation of Czech Post offices. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 26, 171 Members and Members voted in favour of 77, versus 79. The motion was denied. I assume we voted on all the proposals. We would now vote on the whole proposal for the 63rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as tabled and amended in writing by approved amendments. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 27, 170 Members and Members of Parliament signed up, for 95, against 17. The motion was accepted. I'm saying we've approved the agenda for the meeting. We would now proceed to discuss the points in order as they have been approved. I'm opening up.
