ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the second day of the 50th session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all to it. In order to record our participation, I have just checked you all out, and I ask you to re-enter your identification cards and, if necessary, tell me who's asking for a replacement card. I hereby declare that the following Members requested to apologise for their absence at today's meeting: Babiš Andrej for the whole working day for reasons of work, Bělica Josef for the whole day for health reasons, Brož Lubomír for the whole day for health reasons, Bžoch Jaroslav for the whole day for family reasons, Decroix Eva for the whole day for health reasons, Faltýnek Jaroslav for the whole day for family reasons, Fialová Eva from 9 to 10 hours for health reasons, Jílková Marie from 11 to 14 hours for family reasons, Kasal David from the whole day for working reasons, Kolář Ondřej for the whole day for health reasons, Pokorná Jermanová Jaroslava from 16 to 19 hours for health reasons, Quittová Petra from the whole day for health reasons, Šebelová Michaela for the whole day for work and Wenzl Milan for the whole day of procedure for health reasons. From the members of the government apologize: Balaš Vladimír until 10:30 for work reasons, Bek Mikuláš for the whole day for work reasons, Blažek Pavel within 10 hours for work reasons, Černochová Jana from 12 a.m. to 9 a.m. tomorrow, I suppose, for the rest of the day, for working reasons, Lipavskýý Jan from the whole day for work reasons, Nekula Zdeněk from the whole day for working reasons and Síkela Jozef for the whole day for work reasons. With the replacement card number 27, Mrs Dražilová will vote. Today's meeting should start with firmly placed points: paragraph 3, House press 263, on Czech Television and Czech Radio, second reading; point 1, House press 48, civil court order, second reading; point 59, House press 165, residence of foreigners, first reading; point 6, House press 227, right to information on the environment, first reading; point 9, House press 286, land communications, first reading; point 12, House press 307, local charges, first reading; point 18, House press 352, draft law on the protection of notifiers, first reading; point 19, House press 353, draft law on the protection of notifiers - related, also first reading; point 84, House printing 321, health protection against harmful effects of addictive substances, first reading; paragraph 7, House press 252, amendment to the Constitution of the Czech Republic at first reading. We would then continue to discuss points according to the approved agenda. I would like to remind you that at 13:45 we have a fixed ballot point, namely paragraph 99, a proposal for changes in the composition of the Chamber of Deputies; paragraph 100, a proposal for the election of a member of the Czech Radio Council for a vacancy with a term of office until 8 July 2027, and paragraph 101, a proposal for the appointment of a member of the Board of Auditors of the Czech Technical Agency. Now is the time for you to sign up for the agenda, please keep your voice down. I don't see anyone reporting to the agenda, which is why we're going to proceed directly to item 3, which I'm starting now. It's him.
