ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 27th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Jelka Godec, Mrs Eva Irgl, Dr. Jasna Murgel, Mrs. Erika Dekleva, Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert from 13 a.m., Mr. Bojan Podkoršek, Dr. Anže Logar, Mr. Jožef Horvat, Dr. Franc Runk from 2.30 p.m. on, mag. Branislav Rajić from 16:00 on and Mr Igor Zorčič from 15:00 on. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government to the 1st item of the agenda, Mag. Goran Klemenčič, Minister of Justice, on the 19th item of the agenda, Dr Mark Novak, President of the Council of Justice, on the 19th item of the agenda and representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the agenda for the 27th meeting of the National Assembly. You received your draft agenda on Friday 3 February 2017, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. The Group of the United Left proposes to remove item 7 from the agenda of the 27th meeting, namely the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Civil Society. Proposal of 10. 2. 2017 you received today and is published on the e-club. Does the representative of the United Left Group, who is the proponent of the withdrawal, want a word? Yeah. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, Mr. President of the National Assembly! Those of you who were at the meeting of the committee remember that, after a turbulent and perhaps even under-content discussion on the preliminary point of the Foreigners Act towards the end of the meeting, we also considered the proposal for a law on municipal registrarship. It was clear from the debate that it was going to keep this house a little bit of agility, I will try to say politely, for some very rude and incomplete proposal. We also listened to a representative of municipal editors and editors, who expressed many concerns. At the Committee's own meeting, we suggested that the Ministry withdraw the agenda and somehow, as it is called, in some debate with all stakeholders repeat the exercise. But he's the Secretary of State in fact, I can't say anything but that he's taken on some of Mr Cerar's recent manners and he's wanted the point to move forward in any way. I'm not even going to read the explanation that my parents wrote to me, because I've been sitting at a much less controversial energy meeting this morning, and I'm just going to read the committee report. I quote: "In view of the above, the ZPS estimates that their comments remain fully substantiated. The proposal for a law contains constitutional and legal disputed solutions, which do not eliminate or reduce the additional explanations of the Ministry." In fact, through the interpretation of the editorial itself, it was very clear that this is an area that needs to be carefully thought out and regulated after a decade, and it is also necessary to ask from its enrollment whether we in fact want the local police to do so or whether we want something else. In this case, it is also likely to pass the treatment of the law on to another ministry and in fact seriously repeat the exercise also for reasons up to the editors and editors themselves, who will actually draw the shortest and in which we too often shake some of our anger. Whoever read the tape of that session knows that it would be unacceptable for such an incomplete law to go into consideration at the 27th meeting of the National Assembly and therefore propose the withdrawal of this point, which I hope you will support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u3	Does the representative of the government want to speak as a proposal for a bill? Dr. Nitz Bezovar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Public Administration, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u4	Dear President of the National Assembly, honourable Members, honourable Members! Maybe just certain supplements. The proposal for a law was publicised for more than a month in May and June 2016. The Ministry has adhered to all the provisions of the Resolution on Regulatory Activities in drafting the bill and we believe that we have also made it very widely aligned with all stakeholders, both professional and interested in the public. Let me also say here that we received positive opinions or from four opinions somehow that came, the Ljubljana Municipality, where the employees were about one-fifth of the editors, sent a positive opinion on the bill. As far as the rest of the opinions are concerned, we must also say that we have taken into account the initiatives of non-governmental organisations that have come after the public debate and have also taken account of their proposals and initiatives. In our opinion, however, we have also given an argument on the position of the Legal and Legislative Service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u5	Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups? [[No, no, ……]] Any other position on the proposer? So he has a word with dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u6	Look, I'm gonna do it again. All that has been said does not mean that the proposal for a law is not bad. In fact, it is inadvertently bad, not pre-thought-out, not well-thought-out, which has been warned by many stakeholders. Of course, each government will find a few votes that will "fire up," if I may put it that way, the correctness of their decision. After two-thirds of my term of office, as probably the only mandate, I will remember the only president, who will last four years in this decade, following the excessive derogation of the National Assembly. The legislative body is us, the executive authority is you. And if we hadn't proposed the withdrawal of such a poorly prepared law, we would actually have drugged ourselves, we wouldn't have carried out a vital mission of our own. Derogations go even so far as not to give invited persons an opportunity to explain. The derogations go even so far as to vote whether the former Secretary-General of the National Assembly will further explain the matter. It seems to me that after two-thirds of the term, it is high time for such derogations to cease. And this proposal actually goes in this light. It is a law that is too weak, it is a law that leaves a number of questions open, it is reckless, and therefore we think that because of the seriousness of our work, it is essentially all three branches of the government and also the area governed by it, it is necessary to withdraw this item from the agenda so that the matter can be reconsidered and that the matter is settled in a way that will be good for all of us. Even in this light, if I end up looking at these editors, not as someone who's going to collect money from your parked cars, but to think about the meaning and meaning of this job, which, as I said before, is not clear. It is unclear whether we are going in the direction of the local police or in the direction of what they are doing in Austria, for example. It is also clear from the explanation that the applicants had a crazy problem because they did not find anything comparable in fact to justify their own, and now I will use the word, succinct from the law. However, I would not like to be offensive, in fact it is a ministry which already has one or more different substantive tasks to manage. Once again, the law, such as it is, is not suitable for further consideration, which is also clearly evident in the Commission's report, since SMC usually likes this story a little bit anyway. And I hope, reasonable and responsible, it is clear why we are proposing this withdrawal and, of course, why we will vote in favour of withdrawing this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u7	This concludes the debate on the withdrawal proposal and brings us to a decision. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We decide on the proposal to withdraw the 7th item from the agenda. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 16 votes in favour and 43 votes in favour. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the motion for withdrawal is not accepted. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda. We are moving to a full vote on the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 70 votes in favour and 6 votes in favour. [[The vote was 70.]] [[Against six.]] I take it that the agenda for the 27th meeting of the assembly has been set. Procedural question, Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u8	Thank you very much. President, in parliamentary practice, parliamentary questions have their place. As far as the relationship between the opposition is concerned, the coalition is also on the path of controlling the opposition over the coalition. On 16 June last year, eight months ago, I put a question to the interior ministry. It was a question of the question of the involvement of Dejan Ornig as a police officer. I mean, for the first time, I asked if Dejan Ornig was a registered police associate. Secondly, I've been asking for information since he was a registered associate. And thirdly, I asked why you paid him 800 euros with the approval of the Criminal Police Summit. What were the reasons for the approval of the cooperation, and when was this cooperation suspended? The Rules of Procedure are perfectly clear – 30 days. It's been eight months today. It's been eight months. There's no government response. Since the President of the Government is here, I must say that after 2000, I don't remember such ignorance. After 2000, I don't think there was a case that could have happened that way. Last week, the leader of the parliamentary group at the same point in the agenda as we are now alerted to this matter. It's been a month, but nothing happened, President. You immediately, I must stress, have responded extremely properly to Mr Tank's procedural proposal and warned the Government, but there is no answer. It is said that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia not only ignores me, but also ignores you. Why do I find this question important? Especially because after 30 years of police work, Mr President of the Government, I can also tell you that, after 30 years of police work and after 13 months of running the internal ministry, I can tell you that you are working illegally. The rule you conceal and do not wish to give it to the Commission is directly linked to this question. Directly connected. The gentleman could only get 800 euros in payments by signing the heads of the criminal police. However, because the leaders of the criminal police lie and claim that this is some kind of local negotiation, they are deceiving that it is a local criminal negotiation with Mr Ornig and, of course, this is a directly related matter and you do not have accurate data. So once again, you don't have accurate data, you're being deceived, or you believe something that's not true. A secret police officer, paid by the police in a legitimate manner, may receive such payment agreed or realised on the basis of that rule only through the conduct and signature of the heads of the criminal police. I don't think the answer is also because they're covering up this part. I ask you again for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u9	Let me explain that this answer came today, so it arrived today. No, I'm not adding anything to this, but just that this matter is now as it should be. However, I agree that it should have been realized earlier, and we have warned about this and we have also come to an answer. So we can proceed. We're moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY — QUESTIONS FROM MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received written submissions on 32 of the questions sent. The order of business shall be laid down in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government, members of the opposition and the Member of the ruling coalition. Each Member or Member shall have 3 minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government, Ministers, Ministers and Secretary-General of the Government shall answer the question within a maximum of 5 minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have 5 minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of 3 minutes. The Member who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister, the Minister and the Secretary-General of the Government. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister or the Secretary-General of the Government shall provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. Mr Karl Erjavec, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič, Minister for Education, Science and Sport, Mr Zdravko Počvalšek, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, from 16:00 on and Mr Boris Koprivnikar, Minister of Public Administration, apologised for the point. An e-club provides an overview of the questions sent by the Member States, which were not answered within the time limit. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first four questions will be answered by the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Miro Cerar. Luka Mesec, you have the floor to ask the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u10	Thank you for your word and a nice hello. I will ask the Prime Minister the question about the so-called TEC euro, which will soon be received by citizens and citizens on the table by the Government. At the beginning of the month, a proposal for a new energy law introduced by the so-called ‘priority dispatch’, which is in fact a contribution to the loss generated in our energy sector by the 6th block of the Šostanj Termoelectric power plant, was sent to the public debate. The low market prices of electricity do not allow for operating costs of inherited investment in TES. However, the gap between the market price and the operating price is now clearly intended to cover yourself by hanging the cost of covering the loss to citizens and citizens on the stand. Through the so-called priority supervision, it is expected to raise between €25 million and €30 million annually. Therefore, my first question for the President of the Government is: Are you sure there is no alternative to this? Have you really searched all the reserves our energy has? The second question concerns the environmental aspect of this. This is a direct coal subsidy, a burning fossil fuel that produces CO2 emissions, heats the atmosphere, causes many chronic diseases and premature deaths, and so on. In this regard, first of all, I want to know: Or how and in what way is the introduction of so - called priority custody in line with your preeminent promise? Then you promised to stop the environmentally harmful subsidies and now you are introducing a coal subsidy here. Another environmental issue concerns the Paris climate agreement. A few months ago, we ratified as a country an agreement imposing on us the abandonment of fossil energy and the reduction of fossil fuels and CO2 emissions. Given that investments in renewable energy have stagnated for years and, on the other hand, according to the International Monetary Fund, the cost of coal subsidies in Slovenia has exceeded 2% of the gross social product in Slovenia, I am interested in: How is this in line with the agreement you signed in Paris and in what way do you intend to follow the guidelines for reducing CO2 emissions while introducing a coal subsidy in Slovenia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u11	The President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Thank you for the question, honourable Member of the Moon. This issue of yours regarding the importance of introducing priority custody is also being examined by the Government, as we are aware that it is a very important issue, namely, that we are examining it in the direction of possible alternatives and the consequences of the introduction. I am aware that from the point of view of ensuring the reliable and quality supply of Slovenia with electricity, it would be too much to depend on the provision of system services from abroad. This is precisely why the Government is in-depth considering alternatives to this measure, which would raise the price on the stand. Solutions can be found within the energy system and the HSE, where there is still room to increase efficiency, so that I have specifically instructed the competent ministries to seek solutions in this direction. At the same time, I would stress that SDH is expected to require HSE to implement all necessary restructuring measures to improve the efficiency of the thermal power plant. We do not close our eyes to the fact that the price of coal used by TEŠ 6 is still much higher today than what is economically meaningful and possible. Nor do we keep our eyes closed that a rationalisation of business at the level of the entire HSE is necessary and possible. At the beginning of the term of office, the government had set itself the task of having to conduct an independent revision of TES 6 and the economy of future operations. It is this audit and the measures that will also allow for possible compensation claims. We often connect the Scottish thermoelectric power plant with information on the level and quality of investment management in its sixth block. I would like to point out that this priority measure is intended to ensure the current and reliable operation of the thermal power plant. This is by no means a matter of covering the possible losses of an economic society. Therefore, the Government's activities related to the drafting of the regulation in this area must also be separated from the activities carried out by the investigating authorities with a view to detecting possible irregularities and the responsibilities of the persons involved in this investment. No matter what they discover, this will not change the fact that the Scottish thermal power plant is the power plant that we need for the security of the system and, in particular, for the establishment of an energy union. In doing so, let me stress that the Government is committed to a stable, efficient and sustainable energy supply. We are committed to reducing energy dependence and, at the same time, we are aware of the need to meet domestic and international environmental obligations through efficient energy use and energy performance. That is why we are implementing measures to increase security of supply. We provide support for investments that increase sustainable natural supply through the use of renewable energy sources – and I am already responding to this part of the Paris agreement. The share of renewable energy sources in the entire resource structure was much lower than the current one at the beginning of our government's operation, so progress is already very visible here. More. We are implementing measures, such as those in the lower and middle Sava, to increase the share of renewable resources to 25%. We are also committed to this by European legislation, which sets out the obligation so far to 25% of the total share of renewable energy by 2020. And it is precisely because of these proper and timely measures that this government will be able to take. In addition to water, other renewable resources such as solar and wind energy, energy derived from wood biomass, etc. are important. We are therefore also paying particular attention to the importance of the wood-processing industry in the direction of developing wood-processing chains. We also increase energy efficiency. Not only with the energy rehabilitation of buildings, but also with other more modern approaches and just using smart networks, we will make this efficiency significantly more effective, as the introduction of smart grids in the management of electricity networks is extremely important from a national economic point of view. These networks are based on continuous communication between electricity consumers and producers, which must provide an optimal communication network. In addition to improving energy efficiency, it is also important to take into account the very large impact on CO2 emissions reduction and on the ability to manage distributed production as a result of increasing the share of renewable resources in total electricity production. Slovenia intends to participate very actively in the preparation of cross-border capacity in this regard. We're going here, too, and we have to step in time. So all these and other activities of the Government lead to a greater rationalisation of energy use and the realization of the concept of green Slovenia. On the other hand, we are faced with the fact that, despite these efforts, we still cannot do without a high share of production in thermal power plants. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u13	Port of the Moon, you have the floor to request a reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, again. What the Prime Minister says somehow doesn't work together. In fact, you said that you and the ministers are looking for solutions, alternatives to priority custody, but at the same time you have already sent the proposal to public hearing. I have somehow concluded that the proposal has already been sent to public hearing, that you have already been coordinated and you have not found alternatives. Since you haven't pointed to any alternative that exists, I'll tell you two. The first is that in Slovenia there are two pillars in energy, one is HSE, which mainly produces losses due to TES. Last year it was produced by 480 million, of which 400 million of these losses are lost on TES. The second is the GEN, which is profitable, but also owned by the state. That's why I'm first interested: Why don't you find a reserve here before you go to the citizens' checkouts? Another issue to be pointed out in the internal reserves is that your government has just gone into deregulation of the prices of oil derivatives. On the one hand, this will bring higher gas costs on motorways, in urban centres, but at the same time the proposal's assessment mentions as much as 60 million holes per year in the budget, it is said that we can also find money here to cover the loss at the other end. These are two alternatives that I ask you to identify with them. As far as the environment is concerned, I have to say the following, of course, it sounds good that they will finally build hydroelectric plants on the middle and lower Savi and so on, but at the same time it bothers me to say that, in the proposal of the energy law, at the environmental impact point, there is only one sign, this is a bug we know from computer science, and it means nothing. So, you're saying that the new coal subsidy, for TES, will have no adverse environmental consequences. In this light, I wonder once again: How do you intend to implement climate agreements with such a policy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u15	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u16	Thank you very much. The situation that our government found when we took up the mandate, you know that it was not easy, in particular, because of all these unimaginable situations and all the other negative consequences with regard to TER 6. However, we are now optimizing things, and as I said, we are looking for alternative solutions to priority custody. Let me stress that it will be very clear, that you have not said so, that the law is only in public debate. This is a debate that needs to bring about possible alternatives that we will think about. I expect, and I would even say, that we ask the Ministry to take all the alternatives into account here, to examine them, including those offered by Members, and then to find one that can be a genuine optimal alternative to such a system as is currently being put forward as a proposal in public debate. So we're still a long way from getting the government to table a bill. Here we need to find the right solutions and therefore I expect good proposals here from the public debate, and especially on the Ministry's side, an additional effort which, as I am saying, is now being put into this matter. Regarding environmental awareness, I think I have explained that this government is doing everything it can for Green Slovenia, for sustainable development, for us and future generations to go from day to day into cleaner forms of energy, with fewer releases into the air. I explained in the first part of the answer how we are already doing this, how we are reducing harmful releases and how we will continue to do so. From here on out, when it comes to very specific questions about oil derivatives and so on, which are also a matter of different sources, the competent ministries will offer appropriate answers in the future and whenever you wish. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u17	Luka Mesec, you have the floor for a procedural request to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u18	Thank you. Due to the loss that TES 6 produces, jokers already say that it has become the world’s first hybrid thermoelectric power plant, that is, one that works in part for coal and partly for euros. It seems completely unacceptable to us in the United Left that the costs of this inherited investment are now being hung on the citizens to be paid at the checkpoints. Therefore, my proposal for a general debate is as follows. In order to avoid both energies, it is said that we stop burning both coal and euro, and I suggest that we talk in the National Assembly about priority custody, TES 6 or TES in general. I would like to recall that in the United Left we had a public presentation in this room last year on the energy concept of Slovenia, which, despite the promises of the Minister, has not yet been adopted or has just disappeared, and we are now receiving such proposals on the table. We want to clear it with concepts first, and then we will start talking about concrete continuation of the most harmful practices in Slovenian energy, whose crown pearl is TES. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u19	Luka Mesec, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 14 February 2017, in the framework of the votes. Mag. Matthew Tonin, you have the floor to ask a question to the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Miroslav Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u20	Dear Prime Minister, ministers and ministers, dear Members and Members of Parliament, good afternoon! It seems that the construction of the second track is similar to that of TES 6. And before I come to that conclusion, maybe some of the introductory thoughts that need to be said at this point. The port of Koper for Slovenia is certainly an extraordinary pearl, an outstanding logistics pearl, with which we can reach Eastern and Central Europe in one way or another, and which could also help the whole of Slovenia with appropriate development. Of course, our advantage over the other ports with which we compete is constantly grounded. When there are protests in Cyprus, when we talk about where and how we will build a second track, our competitive ports develop. From Trieste to River. These are just the closest to us, and we are all too often forgetting the story of Piraeus and the Chinese in Greece, who are crossing across the Balkans, the railway infrastructure. We also forget the ports in Hamburg and Rotterdam, which have an extremely pre-emptive potential and also very, very advanced technology, and can practically acquire all the time when ships reach the port of Cyprus rather than the port in the north. If I go to the second track now. Dear Prime Minister, there's a lot of strangers here. All that is known is that there is political support for this second track because if you look around this hall, I think there is almost no or I do not know a political party that opposes the construction of another track. It's the only thing known. But it's a financial structure that's unknown. We still don't know how much the second track will cost us today. And here's the story exactly the same as that of TES. We know we're supposed to be building it, but we don't know how much it's gonna cost us. The technical implementation is also unclear. So there's supposed to be an invitation to work outside. This isn't supposed to be the second track. Dear Prime Minister, it seems to me that you are playing a clever political game in the sense that you will try to create a feeling that your government will actually start building a second track, but I doubt that it will, as it is said, be known neither the financial structure nor the technical implementation. Are you really going to build another track?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u21	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u22	Dear Mr Tonin, thank you for the question. Of course we intend to build this second track. Of course we intend to build it. Our government will start building it and then build it to benefit Luke Koper, to benefit Slovenia and Central Europe and beyond. We recognize here a great competitive advantage and an economic opportunity for the development of the country. We have an excellent strategic position and do not hold to your claim that we are not aware of all this importance of forgetting something. That's not gonna hold. We are constantly in contact with a number of countries from Asia, the Middle East and beyond, which, every time through our economic diplomacy, as well as personal meetings, we tell ourselves about Luka Koper and invite them here. Let me tell you that Luke Koper made a record container transfer this month. Only in recent years has this volume of transhipment actively increased and exceeded the growth in the competitive ports of the North Adriatic. After the last years, the transhipment reached 22 million tonnes in 2016 and the growth rate was 6.3 %, and this is a very great success for all stakeholders. Of course, especially Luke Koper. This competitive advantage and the rest must be exploited. Therefore, after so long as nothing has really moved, the government has made the first key move. This move will allow Luka Koper to continue to grow and develop with this logistic and infrastructure input, in particular through a second-tier transhipment. The construction of this track will be technically very difficult. We know that nearly 400 meters above sea level will have to be overcome at 28 kilometers away. This is a very demanding project and will therefore take about six years. We're gonna drive this thing the way I'm gonna say it. Look, we need to start now. We set up a project company 2TKK last March, obtained a building permit, which became legal in May 2016, in preparation a law which is likely to be here within a few months in the National Assembly and hopes, which will regulate the legal basis for the implementation of the investment. With the successful provision of financial resources, we can start the preparatory work by the end of this year. The call for their implementation will be published in the middle of the year. The call for work on the route is planned at the end of this year, and by mid-2018 it will join the implementation of the main project, which will then take several years. The financial structure is based primarily on spending on European programmes, from the Connecting Europe Facility, which is a key European programme to subsidise nuclear European transport networks, and from the Cohesion Fund. As you know, the contribution of the budget envisaged will also be very important in the amount of EUR 200 million as a capital contribution to the project firm. Of course, we have already received one part of the funds from Europe and we have used them to build an extraction track, which is the beginning of the second track, which is already happening in practice. The second track project is also intended to be implemented through the participation of interested outlying countries in the capital of the project company, which we are still discussing at this time. Let me just say that roughly 30% of the financial resources will be provided by credit from the European Investment Bank, which is most suitable to provide long-term credit between 25 and 30 years. To co-finance the construction of the second track and the so-called extraction track, as I said, the funds were already acquired, which is 1.2 kilometers long. Over the past week, we have submitted two applications for European co-financing for preparatory works, and the following is intended to obtain European funds for co-financing the main works as well. So the second track remains the priority of this government, but we plan it carefully, prudently, so that we do not get into this mess as it did at TES 6. I would like to stress, just so that we do not repeat the mistakes that have taken place at TER 6 to the detriment of all citizens and citizens, and today, as we see, we have the negative consequences that we all feel, we have put together this financial structure and we are doing the matter prudently, so that there will be no repetition of this, I would say, the energy catastrophe that we have put so wrong at the time. The second track therefore remains a priority. The financial structure is clear, it works intensively, it will also be based on laws and other regulations, the matter will be transparent. Even in the National Assembly, you will confirm every agreement if this agreement is reached, with the hinter countries. That's why I think we're on the right track now, and I believe that we're going to make the first, even noticeable moves already in the field this year, and that's why I think this is a very urgent matter that I believe we're all going to be involved in.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u23	Mag. Matthew Tonin, you have the floor to request a complete response.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u24	Dear Prime Minister, maybe we didn't get along very well. In the part where you say that Luka Koper is extremely important and that the second track is key to the strategic development of Luka Koper, of course we agree. However, we have great problems with the construction or construction of this second track. And here we can say quite frankly, although you say that it is carefully and prudently planned that things do not fall away in practice. Look, the financial structure is still unclear. If we had a financial structure today, we would know exactly how much the second track will cost us, and so there are billions of euro figures in the public eye, the profession with Jozet P. Damjan says it would be possible to finance the second track for EUR 683 million. But it seems to me that there is one small detail that you deliberately overlook or do not want to talk about. For once, there's talk of preparatory work. That's not the second line. You yourself said that this preparatory work was supposed to be done at the end of 2017 and at the beginning of 2018. But the actual route of the second track is already out of your mandate. Anyone who's a construction worker knows you need a building permit first so you can start building things. And I have a feeling that we don't even know what the technical solutions of this second track will be: whether there will be two tracks in the tunnels or there will be one or there will be passenger and freight traffic or there will be only one traffic. In short, there's a lot of strangers here. Probably not too much of a question if you can say again more precisely in numbers: What is the final price of the second track now, and what is the financial structure of this second track?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u25	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Things are organized and planned carefully. We have a building permit. I've pointed that out many times before. You're saying we have a major problem with the plan. We have major problems, but they obviously had all governments in previous mandates because they have not taken any serious step in this direction. We are finally going this way now, and this is very transparent, and I expect us to work together here, not constantly throwing our pelts under our feet. The government ensured that the first estimate of the budget value of the project was EUR 1.4 billion. They put this on the table when we got into this story. Following the audit carried out by us with a highly competent expert, this price has been reduced accordingly. The 2TKK project company has developed an investment laboratory to inform the Government and the budget value of the project has now been reduced to below EUR 1 billion. We have reduced about 200 million euros on the basis of technical optimizations and price reductions. Believe me, all these technical matters, and these are carefully planned, but these are not matters that we would talk about in public in Parliament, this is a matter of professional questions that will also be the subject of future contracts, so we cannot talk about this in public. Secondly, we have reduced the price by EUR 200 million by means of a reverse tax liability mechanism and VAT savings. This value also takes into account the price escalation at the time of construction, which is an important element of the budget for a project to be built for about six years. All works will also be broadcast on the basis of international tenders. Since there is no time, it is carefully planned that there will be no financial difficulties, that we will follow a plan that will be realistic and that will be realized. But I believe there will be enough debate about this. Above all, I would like to ask not to be manipulated in public with some evaluations that this or they expert so little without the right information to make public and then everyone gets caught up in them. Here the competent institutions and competent audit institutions went through the project and found out what I was talking about. That would be my follow-up to the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u27	Mag. Matthew Tonin, you have the floor for a procedural request to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u28	It is precisely because of the sensitivity of this subject or, if you want, because of the way in which the President of the Government has given a response, which understands the question of how much an investment in the country will cost, that I, the President of the Government, simply cannot agree with. I think that this Parliament and the opposition are obliged to ask how much public funding some project will cost. Our questions are probably all the more on the table if the differences are not politics, but the professions vary by 400 million euros. These are huge numbers and big money. You must understand that here we have the right and the duty to ask you why these things are going the way they are. This debate in this House, which is required in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, is necessary so that no one will speak in six years' time, because I did not know, because we were not together, everything was a policy of enforcement, the matter has been brought so far that there was no going back. I am not saying the way back that there is no need to build another track, but I am speaking in this sense that the second track should be built rationally and with public resources at its disposal. One more thing. I read from the official messages that your Minister of Infrastructure also gives. And he himself claims that the projects and the implementation and tender documentation for the main route of the project will only be worked out, planned and that tenders will come in the coming years. I certainly didn't make that up. And another thing the builders have warned me about is how you're going to do this in the construction itself, because virtually for such infrastructures after the collapse of the Slovenian construction sector today, no one has this kind of reference anymore. This means that the second track will be built by foreigners themselves or, as some say, that some arrangements are under way to build domestic companies under the brand of some foreign companies with references. These are all the questions that should be addressed by this Parliament, which should also be addressed by you, the President of the Government, and in particular the Minister of Infrastructure, and give specific or very clear answers to public or professional demands. Let's just say that the project is carried out with care and prudence, and there is no argument for this, and on the other hand, I do not know how many lists argue that the 300 million euro project is overpaid, please understand that the debate is necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u29	Mag. Matthew Tonin, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 14 February 2017, in the framework of the votes. Procedurally, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, chairman. I have to take this, because I'm actually disgusted, but I didn't think so. I don't know if Mr. President of the Government listened to himself. He literally stated that the National Assembly is no place for these issues, professional and so on. Where's the room if not here? I ask you kindly, the President of the National Assembly, to stop this derogation from the National Assembly. What are we? Are we ornaments or are we pendants? Then, I don't know, we're stuck here with our backs, and we're gonna bang down. That's not funny, I mean, where are we gonna decide on these investments? It's up to 90 of us. This is literally a mockery of the role of the National Assembly, it is a mockery of the legislature, even if I leave aside that Mr Cerar has also made fun of experts in the meantime. This house is clearly governed by the rules of the current absence of Miha Kordiš and me. Rules of procedure. Then it stops. Apparently, others can say whatever they want. Mr Cerar literally said that this was no place for these questions. What is the place for these questions? Some backstage games, something through Dr. Keseljevich's office?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u31	Come on, please. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u32	No, I'm serious. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u33	Come on, now it's getting [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u34	Mr President, I respect you in your capacity and I ask that you prevent this kind of mockery from the National Assembly. That's my procedural proposal. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u35	This is a pure abuse of the procedural proposal. The only reason is a political debate with the opinion of the President of the Government, for which you have the opportunity under anything but certainly not as a Member who has not asked this question. You will still be able to identify yourself tomorrow when we vote on the general debate. The endless opportunity for you to express your opinion, which, of course, the people's representatives always have the opportunity to do so, but please let us do so in accordance with the rules of procedure. Not to abuse it for such an accounting. That's not right. Those procedural ones had previously announced it to me, I knew at least what it was about, but here is a pure abuse and reaction to the response of the Prime Minister, who cannot defend himself. Gradually, this is not possible and you abuse your power of speech. And that's not right and it's not part of democracy. Mag. Alenka Bratušek, you have the floor to question the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u36	Thank you very much and thank you very much! The President of the Government: In almost three years of your mandate, what have you done about the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank? They were actively selling it? Were you looking for a strategic partner? Were you trying to postpone the sale? What we may have seen from far away is, in particular, a confused attitude. On the one hand, there is a need to respect the agreed agreement and, on the other hand, there is a promise to citizens and citizens that, due to uncertainty in the financial markets, the sale will be suspended. The year 2013 was one of the most difficult for our Slovenia. We have recorded a poor economic situation, a nearly 5% decline in economic activity, government debt interest record high, almost 7%, and unemployment record high. In fact, there was no analyst and journalist who would not ask again every day when Slovenia would go bankrupt. It's not. We've shown everyone we know and can do it. We put Slovenia back on track, financially stabilized it, and so-called threes finally closed the door. Yeah, we did all of that in 2013. The rehabilitation of banks was one of the key to the financial stabilisation of the country. The fact is, she was nice. Many conditions were given by the European Commission at the time of this rehabilitation or state aid from our banks. One of these conditions was the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank. All we have achieved in those difficult times is that one quarter of the bank can remain state-owned. The situation in the country and the world is certainly different today than in 2013. That's a fact. And if you are assessing that the purchase for the New Ljubljana Bank today will not be the same as it should be, I wonder why the government did not ask for a postponement. We hear from individual representatives of the European Commission that a number of countries have done so and have succeeded. Once again, what have you done, Prime Minister, as the most responsible Government, in almost three years of your mandate to sell the New Ljubljana Bank?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u37	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u38	Thank you, Madam Ambassador Bratusek. Indeed, under your government, the Republic of Slovenia committed itself to the European Commission in 2013 to reducing its share in the New Ljubljana Bank to a maximum of 25% plus one share by the end of 2017. In the Resolution on the Capital Investment Management Strategy, which we have already adopted in July 2015, we have laid down that the country's capital investment in NLB is intended for divestment of the share, as set out by the European Commission. In accordance with the provisions of the SDH Act, the sale process, which must be carried out here, is independently managed by the Slovenian State Holding Company, i.e. SDH, and is preparing, in accordance with the strategy adopted and in cooperation with the management of the Bank, a programme for the classification of shares on the international market by the method of the first public sale of shares. Since January 2016, SDH has initiated preparatory actions for the sale of the bank by this method, i.e. the method of first supply of shares, and in April 2016 has selected a financial advisor for the sale of capital investment, namely Deutsche Bank, who you know has already produced a feasibility study. On 19 January 2017, the Government also agreed to an annual capital investment management plan for 2017 prepared by SDH in accordance with the law. This year, SDH provides for the continuation of activities related to the sale of NLB shares. At a recent meeting of the Minister of Finance with the Commissioner for Competitiveness at the European Commission, discussions also took place on the fulfilment of commitments in the case of NLB, which Slovenia made in the process of granting State aid to NLB. This meeting was intended primarily to identify, in cooperation with the European Commission, which approach in the further implementation of the commitments is most appropriate. Commitments as such remain unchanged at the moment. However, the Minister and Commissioner agreed to continue to cooperate closely in monitoring their implementation. The extension of the deadline for the sale of NLB or other changes to commitments has not been proposed and SDH continues with activities aimed at closing the sale process within the time limit. However, I would like to point out that, with what I have said, you are the commitment to Brussels that NLB will be sold by the end of the year, given by you, of course, your government. As President of this government, which must implement this commitment, I expect that this sale by SDH will not be done by the Government, but rather by SDH, so that this sale will be made so that taxpayers will not suffer any more damage and that the maximum possible purchase will be achieved, which will to the greatest extent be the reimbursement of the State aid granted in 2013. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u39	Mag. Alenka Bratušek, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u40	Yeah, I told you myself. Yes, the commitment was agreed in 2013 at the time the banks were rehabilitated in the form that the banks could remain state-owned. That was the most we could achieve that year. In January 2016, SDH was expected to initiate procedures, which is expected to elect a financial advisor in April 2016. It is unusual to note from this same SDH in October 2016 that due to the excessive risks of SDH it is intended to propose an extension of the deadline of 3 years. So until 2020. You also rated October 12, 2016: "Prime Minister Miro Cerar estimated in his interview with Bloomberg that Slovenia is likely to postpone the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank." NLB isn't a car to watch the price online, publish the sale, and sell it to the first person to come through because you can't deal with customers. The new Ljubljana Bank is our largest bank that needs responsible owners. Responsible owners in order not to repeat the story of the past and not to discuss the necessary tax money in two years or three years. That is why our biggest bank needs to find responsible owners. That doesn't go from today to tomorrow. And if nothing has been done so far, I think it's irresponsible that you haven't requested an extension of your sales deadline. As I have already said, a number of countries have been able to do so by the European Commission. Of course, the Slovenian government must first show an interest in this.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u41	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u42	Thank you very much. You're saying we didn't do anything like that. I explained a few minutes ago what we've done. I don't know – weren't you listening? But I understand you're embarrassed because your government has resold the NLB and now you're embarrassed. But I'm not getting into this. This is not the time for some pre-election contest. I want to explain that our government must now follow this matter because of your commitment. But we are looking for solutions, suitable time and space. I said that our government through the Minister of Finance is in contact with the European Commission, and that is what we are talking about. I said that the sale process is not led by the government but by SDH. This is a system that you introduced yourself and then we brought it into some normal water, it's a corporate management system. It is true that the Government cannot treat the bank politically, but that is what the management right SDH is doing, and that is why, as Prime Minister of the Government, I can mainly express some views, opinions, calls. Of course, we are also, through the Ministry, an interlocutor of the European Commission, and we accept all those acts that enable normal work for SDH. Therefore, I repeat, we must respect our commitments, we are talking about this commitment, the commitment remains the same as it is, but I expect that the sale will be made so that taxpayers will not suffer more damage than they already have. I think it's right that I express this expectation and that we are going this way. From here on out, let us now let the procedures run properly, as they must, in accordance with the principle of corporate governance. I assure you that our government will follow these procedures very closely, and where necessary and acceptable, it will also always express its opinion or have a dialogue with the European Commission throughout the whole time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u43	Mag. Alenka Bratušek, you have the floor for a procedural request to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u44	It is too important that only by shifting responsibility to past governments can they just sweep it under the table. As of October, the President of the Government said two, three months ago that Slovenia was likely to postpone the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank. SDH is supposed to propose a three-year delay. Now we're listening here to how it's all done, how it's all ready to sell our biggest bank. SDH is 100 percent owned by the state. That's where you put your men into the control world. It is true that it has been operationally incomplete for some time now, because it does not have the whole administration and the whole control council, but the responsibility for what is happening on SDH is yours. Not to wash my hands here and say, I have nothing to do with it. If the Government had an interest and apparently had it, there was an interest in extending the deadline in October. Those are not my words. These are the words of the Prime Minister. I want to know: What has changed from October to today? Nothing they could have told me has changed. We don't know if we can or can't. I agree. Commitments must be respected. But the European Commission has changed its decisions in several countries, in the case of Italy, even in four banks. But, Mr President, the European Commission must first give some initiative and wish. You are the one who started to explain that the situation in the financial markets is changing due to brexitity and that Slovenia will therefore have to act. It's not. And that's what this government is responsible for. I also wish that taxpayers would not be even more burdensome than they had to cover up at the rehabilitation of banks, but should be active in this area. Therefore, dear colleagues and colleagues, I think it is right to discuss the procedures for selling the New Ljubljana Bank, what, how, why, why not, we will also discuss in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u45	Mag. Alenka Bratušek, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 14 February 2017, in the framework of the votes. Mr. Franc Jurša, you have the floor to ask the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u46	Thank you for your word. Good bye to all of you! Mr President, I will immediately ask you a question: Are you inclined to make the contribution rate equal to that of the pension fund, employers and employees? For more than 20 years, employers have paid almost half their employees for their pension allowance. Employees pay 15.5% and employers 8.85%. The reduction in the rate of contribution to employers was introduced in 1996 with the aim of increasing competitiveness, investing in research and development, opening up new quality jobs. These measures should only be temporary until the tax on salaries paid is abolished. The latter was abolished between 2006 and 2009, and the rate has remained the same to date. The halving of the contribution to employers has resulted in a drastic reduction in the inflow to the pension fund. From the beginning, he covered it himself with debt, then he took over the budget and today he's putting it into a cash register of 1.5 billion. If the rate of contribution were to be equalised, the inflow from employers would be increased by 850 million. In all the years of the financial and economic crisis, we continued with the help of the economy, and in other matters, of course, we have saved, especially here I am thinking of pensions. The State also pushed the pensioner against the wall by saving money, filling the hole in the pension box and, in fact, settling the matter on their shoulders. Today is the time for economic growth. Further forecasts are good. The prospect of a new pension reform, based on the White Paper, is dominated by the thesis of ageing and early retirement. It is therefore necessary to tighten the conditions for retirement. But no one is talking about how to increase the inflow to the pension fund, which would help improve the sustainability of the system and reduce the transfer from the budget. The aid measure to the economy from 20 years ago did not produce the expected results, as this exemption, along with all other further incentives and reliefs, essentially poured into private pockets and created tycoons. With this level of contribution, we are unique in the European Union, except for the Netherlands, which has somehow [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u47	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u48	Thank you very much, distinguished Member of the Council. This is a very complex situation and I would like to point out first that, years ago, the reduction in the rate of contribution for pension and disability insurance achieved its purpose. Data show that the share of R & D investments in terms of GDP by businesses and countries has been steadily rising, even during the worst crisis, when it did not fall below 2%. Increased investment in research and development has proven to contribute to increasing competitiveness and employment. It is a fact that the structure of taxes in Slovenia is not optimal. Taxes and contributions are over-the-counterfeit work and the average wealth and income of legal persons. Social security contributions come out when work is being burdened, as the income burden is below the average of the European Union and the burden of contributions is above average. They also show data on the OECD tax margin. This gap is higher in Slovenia than the OECD average, with social security contributions being the main source of burden. In the government, we particularly want to encourage, among other things, to increase the competitiveness of the business environment, so that we can have more work, more economic growth and then more for everyone. Therefore, the additional burden on contributions does not at present appear to be the right measure. Although there will certainly be another discussion about this. We must also be aware, as you yourself said, that the demographic effects of ageing in Slovenia are among the most pronounced and difficult in Europe. During the preparation of the White Paper on Pensions, one of the extreme measures was also examined to increase the contribution rates of both the insurer and the employer. The results showed that only an increase in the employer's contribution rate back to 15,5 % in order for the total contribution rate to be 31 %, whereas now it is 24,3 would not be sufficient to ensure the sustainability of the pension allowance. For a long-term sustainable pension fund, the contribution rate of workers should also increase to a total contribution rate of 30,4 %. Here it should be reiterated that this was only considered as a last resort, which is not acceptable and therefore not placed within the framework of the final version of the White Paper on pensions. As an alternative proposal, the White Paper now considers the possibility of reducing the contribution rates of employees while providing additional resources to finance the pension fund. In particular, three approaches are offered here; first, according to the principle, any work would be considered to be to a full extent the contributions would be paid from each work income, regardless of the legal relationship, and then taken into account in the calculation of the amount of the pension. Under the universal principle, taxes as contributions would be paid according to the economic capacity of insurers and the burden of the pension system would be partially passed on to individuals who are earning capital income, and of course we know that we will introduce a demographic reserve fund, which will also contribute here. I would say, however, that given the demographic trends that are actually very strong in Slovenia in a negative sense, if we are looking at it from the perspective that we are currently looking at, if only alternative sources of funding are sufficient for the sustainability of the pension fund, certain changes in the labour market would also be needed. And here, in fact, we will need to discuss seriously the possibility of extending the work activity of over 55 years of age in Slovenia, which is still one of the lowest age limits. There will then be a clear focus on providing quality jobs with higher added value and more in raising public awareness of population ageing. As you know, in the coalition, I also believe that there will be intense debates in the entire political space in the future, especially this year, and I believe that we will find together those optimal solutions that we will then implement for the benefit of all our citizens in the coming years to overcome these negative demographic trends with appropriate measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u49	Mr. Franz Jurša, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u50	Thank you. Let me begin by saying that within 20 years the demographic fund will not be able to contribute any contribution to pensioners' pensions. It is also true that one third of the pensioners in the country are below the poverty threshold, and we need to think carefully about this. It is also true that the increased contribution rates of employers could be calculated on the basis of the pension. The calculation of the amount of the pension goes only to the part for which the workers pay. If this part, which employers would pay, were included in this, it would also mean that pensioners would also have higher pensions. But solidarity is supposed to be covered by the state. I said earlier that if the contribution rate were to be equal to the workers, 850 million would be raised for the pension fund. Let me just say a few countries in the European Union for a comparison, the levels of contribution and how much someone is paying. In Austria, for example, 22.8% of the rate of contribution is paid, of which 10.25 workers are paid by employers 12.55. In the Czech Republic, there are 28% and workers pay 3.5 or 6.5% or 21.5% or employers. In Germany, the contribution rate is 18.9%, of which 9.45 and 9.45 employees are paid. Sweden has a 17.21% rate and 7% are paid by workers and 10.21 by employers. In Slovenia, however, the contribution rate is 24.35% of which I have already said that 15.5% of workers pay [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u51	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u52	Thank you very much. I would only add briefly to the fact that I consider this yours and also my debate as a part or an introduction to the broader debate that follows in the coming months. I believe that we will constructively all approach the search for solutions for our people, to enable them in the coming years with some appropriate reform of a safe age and to address together these negative demographic trends with some of the solutions that we urgently need. I absolutely take this debate from you, Mr Jurša, as one constructive contribution to this future dialogue, which we will have both in the coalition, the government and the wider political space, in Parliament and in general, will certainly be fully involved. In this context, I will support this debate in order to lead to the best possible solutions as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u53	I thank the Prime Minister for his answers. In accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we turn to the question raised at the 25th meeting of the National Assembly. Minister of Justice Mag. Goran Klemenčič will answer Dr Vinko Gorenak's question regarding the Ministry of Justice's legal proposals.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u54	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament, honourable question-bearing Member Dr Vinko Gorenak! Your question was: To what extent do you estimate that the forecast is being implemented following the systematic regulation of individual areas with comprehensive legal solutions and not just with the amendment of laws? My short answer is, I think it's very good. But I'm willing to answer your question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u55	Dr. Vinko Gorenak, you have the floor to request a response.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u56	Yes, Your Honor. By the time I asked that question, that was in December, you had brought one marriage and 11 novels to the National Assembly. The numbers are different today, we know that, but on the date I asked about, that's what the records are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u57	Minister of Justice Mag. Goran Klemenčič, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Here. The numbers are different today. We have just this reference to the National Assembly, or I think you have three entirely new laws and a comprehensive preparation of completely new laws. As you know, since you've been Secretary of State and Secretary for a long time, it takes time. I'd probably respond less optimisticly to you in December than I do today.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u59	In accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we are moving on to the questions raised at the 26th meeting of the National Assembly. First of all, he'll be the Justice Minister. Goran Klemenčič answered Dr Vinko Gorenak's question about the suspicion of a crime of abuse of an official position suspected by the Attorney General and the former Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u60	Thank you very much. And now I'm getting used to having to answer it myself. Thank you very much for the question, honourable Member Dr. Gorenak. As you know for yourself, because you have been a minister in the government for some time, which also had the State Prosecutor's Office under you, the Ministry of Justice is not directly aware of the course of the forecasting procedure and the measures taken by the State Prosecutor's Office. On your question, however, we have asked the District Attorney's Office in Ljubljana and have received the following information. From the answer we received. It turns out that the indictment was on 2nd. 4. 2015 tabled in the Office of the Attorney General and the Police on 10. 5th of the same year, the Supreme Public Prosecutor’s Office dropped the complaint in a competent resolution to the competent State Prosecutor’s Office in Ljubljana on 5th April. 5th of the same year, a notice of complaint was sent to the Public Prosecutor's Office by the Ljubljana Police Administration, together with the estimated time of closure of the case by 31. Seven. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The police are 16. 7 and 11. 8. The Prosecutor’s Office informed about the work on the case, but failed to complete it at the scheduled time and so on. I can read it all if you want, but I'm happy to send it to you in writing. The only thing that, as it appears in the public or in your question, is that, if I understand correctly, the retirement of certain prosecutors or prosecutors working on this matter, I do not have this information. That's it. However, I am pleased to send you this answer in writing, because all this information is available to us and has been provided to us by the State Prosecutor's Office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u61	Dr. Vinko Gorenak, you have the floor to request a response.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Well, please, if you really send it to me, I agree. But look, Minister, I have a clear relationship with the D.A. That's both clear. What I am challenging you for a little while is that you should express your own attitude towards the issue in this country, which seems important that the Attorney General is in charge of the police. I have to congratulate the police here. They had courage here, and good information, and that's true, but that's what you have to say. However, it seems to me that as a minister, without prejudice to the prosecution, you may state your own personal attitude towards such a question in this country. That's one. And secondly, look, one of the prosecutors was appointed a judge, and it's been six months. I have information that this lady, who is now considering this, will be retired, I don't know, in May, June will meet the conditions. Whether she'll actually be retired, I don't know, but look, the impression is that it's going in the direction of obsolescence. I know you can't directly influence the matter, but despite everything I think, I'm going to say that the public is entitled to some personal relationship of yours. Because after all, you said something that no one would hope for in this country. I'm not a minister either. By the way, you said they'd be flying heads if the bavcar didn't do it and that and so on. I think there might be some kind of sharp word of yours that could speed something up, because it would also be good if it did. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u63	Minister of Justice Mag. Goran Klemenčič, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Since you're dragging me around like that, I'd just like to embarrass you there, you've got a lot of things to hope for, and you've already said them. That's the first conclusion. Second conclusion, we both know that the prosecution is quite separate. You've gone all the way here. I've had your quote since you ran the interior ministry. You said the D.A.'s independence was equivalent to that of the judiciary. According to the president of your party, if I quote, it has even been said that "they are so independent that they can also be placed under the Ministry of Culture, and that would not change anything". But I'm not going to go into how you can have personal information about when a prosecutor is going to retire or not. I don't have that information, and I didn't get it, because I think it's personal data, and it's not to be speculated with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u65	Dr. Vinko Gorenak, you have the floor for a procedural request to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u66	Look, I was sitting there, and I was gonna show you like this and say, "Let's get this thing over with." But now that I actually find that the Minister has double criteria, because if the question is Igor Bavcar, they have to fly heads, but if the question is Mr Fisher, he is not prepared to say any critical words in this direction. I don't think that's right. Otherwise, it confirms the prosecutor's political orientation, more than yours, because yours is already known for being a member or a member of this government, nothing controversial. But it more confirms your political compatibility with the prosecutor, which is the problem. His, not yours, that we're clear. However, I think that the state and citizens deserve, given that the media have denied any reporting on this subject, but report on four rubber cuts, that is then the topic number one, whereas this is the general prosecutor on the part of the police, because we probably don't have such an prosecutor in Europe, and I think that citizens deserve one debate in the National Assembly, which is why I propose it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u67	Dr. Vinko Gorenak, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 14 February 2017, in the framework of the votes. Now she's going to be Minister of Finance of the Mags. Mateja Vraničar Erman answered Mr Ljub Žnidar's question regarding the results of the tax registers after their one-year use.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u68	Thank you very much for asking me this question. With regard to the results of the tax registers, I should mention in the introduction that we expected higher income from value added tax, in this area we expected the largest part of the effects, but we also expected effects in the area of corporate income tax and activity tax. The corporate income tax and the activity tax will not be submitted to the financial administration until the end of March of this year. When we introduced the tax registers, we talked about the impact of €75 million. we talked about the annual impact in all tax areas. Accordingly, the effects recorded in the VAT area, the impact of the 9-month period and the negative €40 million, are assessed in the framework of the expected effects. These are effects that can be attributed indirectly only to the introduction of tax warehouses, i.e. effects that have already been cleared of other effects that we received in 2016 with regard to the value added tax rate. The final analysis of the effects of tax boxes in terms of VAT will be known in the second half of this month when the latest accounts for the last three-month period of last year will be analysed. A comprehensive analysis of the effects in all tax forms, both VAT and corporate income tax, and the activity tax and social security contributions will be prepared in May following an analysis of all the accounts we expect, as I mentioned earlier, by the end of March. Finally, let me mention that the preliminary figures on VAT implementation for the whole of 2016 show that the inflows or payments of value added tax increased by more than 11 % in last year, while the returns decreased and were lower than in the previous year. In 2016, we introduced some other changes in the VAT area, which also affect the final comprehensive value added tax revenue, and therefore, as stated, it is necessary to wait until the end of the month for the final analysis of the effects of the introduction of the tax registers and from a comprehensive perspective until the end of May. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u69	Mr. Ljubo Žnidar, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u70	Dear Minister, thank you so much for your answers. I agree that my question has actually been a little premature, given the balance sheet accounting for the previous year. I would like to ask whether it is entirely possible to determine the net effect of the introduction of tax registers, including on other inflows or other data, because we know that last year we had 2.3% real economic growth, that this also contributed to greater inflows. Then there were slightly more than 3% of gross domestic product growth. There has also been an increase in the final consumption of households of around 3%, as well as a 2% increase in the consumption of the country itself. I ask from all these incomes because I do not know this area so precisely: Is it possible to determine exactly, of course, what is known for all the data that will be in a month or two, what is the actual effect of the introduction of tax receipts? The guess was quite something. Users have in some ways adapted to the use of tax boxes, although they are not somehow satisfied at the Chamber of Commerce with the reduction of the grey economy. Of course, we will also be able to analyse this data when this data is actually also real on the table.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u71	Minister of Finance Mag. Matthew Vrančnik Erman, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u72	Thank you very much for the additional question. We can also assess the effects of tax receipts, we cannot precisely calculate them, but we can assess them from the accounts proposed by individual taxpayers in the field of VAT and also for the area mentioned above, but from the corporate tax and the corporate income tax. The figures I mentioned earlier, which were publicly published by the quarterly Financial Administration, were last published in October for a period of 9 months, and additional growth in VAT on economic growth and final consumption of consumers or households were, to be said to be simplified. However, as regards the growth of the country's consumption, the estimated growth in the country's consumption was already taken into account in the planning of VAT-related government revenues when the state budget was adopted and the actual growth of government spending in last year was lower than that planned by OUMR in the macroeconomic frameworks used in the initial VAT-related revenue planning for 2016. But the concrete answer is, yes, once a final analysis of the system for the introduction of tax boxes is prepared, the data will be displayed, cleaned, as far as possible, of all other effects, changes that took place last year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u73	Now she's going to be Minister of Finance of the Mags. Mateja Vraničar Erman also answered Mr Jernej Vrtovac's question regarding the sale of Nova Ljubljanska banka, d. d.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u74	As far as the New Ljubljana Bank is concerned, I can point out once again that, in accordance with the Slovenian National Holding Act, the Slovenian State Holding is in charge of preparing the whole sale process. In 2015, a decision in the State Council was also confirmed in the State Capital Investment Management Strategy Regulation in order to ensure that the next key objective is met in the sale of NLB. In the case of NLB, where the Republic of Slovenia has committed, in accordance with its State aid recapitalisation commitments, to reduce capital investment by 25% and one share by 31 December 2017, SDH will prepare, in cooperation with NLB, a programme for the classification of NLB shares in the international market under the so-called IPO programme. In the light of the above, the procedures shall be smooth, in accordance with the commitments given. As it is said, sales lead to SDH, in accordance with the principles of care and economy and transparency. The government respects and expects the SDH to carry out the sales process at the most timely time possible to ensure that the Republic of Slovenia maximizes its sales price. As mentioned earlier today, I met with the Commissioner of the European Commission responsible for competition in Brussels on 23 January and, at this point, the commitments made by Slovenia remain unchanged in 2013. In the interview, I presented the issue of the implementation of the commitments we made and the objective of divestment of the investment, which is the greatest possible refund of the tax assets invested. The Ministry of Finance, within its competences, is monitoring the NLB sales process, as we need to keep an eye on the fulfilment of commitments. The meeting was intended primarily to determine which approach to the further implementation of the commitments is most appropriate. At the meeting, I did not propose an extension of the deadline for the sale of NLB or other changes to commitments. So that the NLB sales process continues. However, I would also like to mention that if there were to be a change in any commitment regarding the State aid granted to NLB, we should be aware that the approval of such a change would be conditional on tightening the remaining commitments to be fulfilled by the bank. This may have a negative impact on profitability. Therefore, caution and rationality in making decisions or changes to decisions already made are strong on the ground. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u75	Mr. Jernej Vrtovec, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u76	Thank you very much. More than a complement to the explanation of this issue, because it has been almost a month since the result and content of the Minister's talks were not clear at the meeting with the European Commissioner in Brussels and when the question of whether we are going to Brussels in public and asking the European Commissioner to postpone the sale of the New Bank of Ljubljana. Why? See, on October 12th, Prime Minister Cerar told Bloomberg that the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank is likely to be delayed. Then, on January 6th, an interview was held in Odessa, when the President of the Government said, "I expect SDH to take all possible new circumstances into account." And then to the Members of the National Assembly, who are responsible for asking questions to be answered, there is nothing left to do but seriously ask what we are doing now – whether we are going to stick to this commitment to sell the New Ljubljana Bank by the end of this year – we have already accepted the way, the sale process – whether we are actually going to ask for certain deferrals. And if the President of the Government is asking such highly questionable answers or even placing the SDH's intention to sell, as we have heard from the Minister, at stake, this question is very much on the table. It was in place a month ago. You said, "SDH is in charge of sales." Do you know what the problem is? It always seems to us that SDH is becoming the cover when, in certain cases, it is in charge of a certain thing, and in certain cases, like here, the Prime Minister of the Government is just passing the SDH saying that something might happen and we will not sell. But I agree with you on your commitments. A number of the commitments we have made to the European Commission should be deleted in order to improve the operation of the New Ljubljana Bank.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u77	Minister of Finance Mag. Matthew Vrančnik Erman, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u78	Thank you very much. I must say that the Ministry of Finance's communications, what the objective is and what the results of the conversation with Mrs Vestager in Brussels have always been, in fact, very clear and unequivocal. We talked about different commitments, about how we meet them, where we achieve the fulfillment of commitments early, where certain problems exist. As a matter of fact, the meeting did not propose an extension of the time limit for sale. However, we need to be aware of another matter — whether selling or not, it is not a decision that is made once and then forgotten about it and that you have taken it. This is a decision that needs to be checked further and further, given the changed circumstances, in view of everything that happens on the market as well as in other environments. And that's what we do. Everyone, of course, in accordance with their responsibilities, and here the responsibility of SDH on the one hand and the Ministry of Finance on the other is very clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u79	We are moving on to questions from Members of Parliament and Members in today's first round. Mr Ljubo Žnidar, you have the floor to ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnificent Nutrition. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, we both know that farming in Slovenia is not easy. Of course, agri-economic industries are affected by a number of different factors. Thus, in Slovenia we have relatively small agricultural areas, we also have a rather unfavourable weather climate, which is changing very quickly, which means that there are many natural disasters that affect agriculture in one way or another every year. I would point out another additional problem, of course with these changing climates or more rains or more droughts and so on, there are also extremely fast developing pests and talking about the use or registration of plant protection products in the Republic of Slovenia. We know that, given the current state of time, this has a profound impact on how these pests develop in agriculture, and this calls for extremely rapid reactions. We know that in this area there are regulations regulating the matter by registering certain plant protection products that are not currently available in the Republic of Slovenia. This is said to be true if I say from practice when one pest is identified and there is no such asset in Slovenia in fact, an application must be made immediately, wait for the approval of this application and also for the delivery of certain starches. This means a certain period of time or some administrative procedure. These cases are more in practice, I would like to mention only one I know, for example, where an extremely rapid response is needed. It's a hop spider. This case was reported several times in the Savina Valley. This is the problem of delivery and, after all, the price, we see that in the neighborhood these starches are cheaper or in Slovenia they are more expensive. As a result, Mr. Secretary, I ask: How to simplify the registration of plant protection products in Slovenia in order to make supply as effective as possible? We know that we are living, I would say, in the same agricultural region as neighbouring countries, Italy, Austria, also Germany [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u81	Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food Magi. Dean Jedhan, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u82	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. And good greetings to all Members and Members! Member of the Commission, thank you for the current question, too. Maybe he explained something. The fact is that plant protection products are not subject to the principle of free movement of goods. The reason is that there are differences between countries regarding environmental protection and human health, but in particular among agricultural practices. For example, in Slovenia you know that we have one special feature, that is, that most of the water supply comes from groundwater, we also have relatively many bees, substantially more than elsewhere and so on. The second thing to know is that in recent years, even at European level, the number of substances registered has decreased significantly. If there were a thousand 300 of them in 1991 at this time, there were 488, but only 300 of them, in fact, chemical substances, that is because of this different view of health and environmental protection. Then, perhaps, as an interesting thing, and in Slovenia the number of registered plant protection products has increased. If there were 280 of them in 2007, now there are 520. Here I must immediately point out that some plant protection products have a similar substance and that is why it is such a number. Perhaps as an interesting thing, the number has increased by 30% over the last two years. The fact is that in Slovenia, average prices for plant protection contributions are on average slightly lower than in Austria and Croatia, sometimes comparable to Hungary and higher than in Italy. When we also looked at the essence of where this difference is in scratch, we found that there is a very large volume of wholesale sales in Italy, and 85% of us go through retail, which is probably one of these reasons. In order to reduce this cost burden for Slovenian farmers, we have been using the so-called parallel import mechanism for some time. What does that mean in practice? In practice, it means that if a group of producers or farmers, their organiser, finds that a similar asset is cheaper or significantly cheaper than in Slovenia, we have offered them an administrative route, which is very fast and relatively affordable. In 10 minutes or how many online forms fill out the application, in a day or at the latest in two, I think they usually get a positive decision. True, this procedure is about 200 euros, but they can buy where it's cheaper. We have also been informed several times through the media that there are no funds that farmers might need in Slovenia. Unfortunately, in a number of cases there is no registration requirement on the official body, this is on the Food Safety Authority. It is true that because of the smallness of the Slovenian market, some producers do not even have an economic interest to register in Slovenia, but farmers' associations can do so. In a number of cases, farmers have successfully carried out this path through their agricultural and agricultural chambers and will continue so. My summary is as follows: the fact is that there is a shortage of plant protection products in Slovenia and also wider due to these growing demands. A number of problems are being solved through technological methods. The fact is that also some new products are largely not developing, so this is one of the problems, not the only ones that agriculture is facing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u83	Mr. Ljubo Žnidar, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u84	Thank you very much for your explanation, Minister of State. The 2009 Regulation on the registration of plant protection products repeals the previous two Regulations, but introduces one novelty: a revised method of registration of plant protection products and introduces a zone registration. What does that mean? This means that mutual recognition of registrations is also mandatory between countries if they are in one zone. Now I'm asking: Are these agricultural zones in the territory of Slovenia and neighbouring countries already defined? Have the agreements between countries already been reached in this direction? Is it, for example, the power to register with two, three, four neighbouring countries belonging to an agricultural zone similar to Slovenia?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u85	Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food Magi. You have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u86	Thank you. Slovenia, Europe is now divided into two zones, and we belong to the so-called central one, in which, say, Austria and Germany, but it is not the same zone as Italy. The country can't be in several zones and sometimes there are problems here, in particular some vegetable growers bordering Italy. However, it must be said that often the demand for plant protection products, which are not newer, is not part of the new registration, but perhaps some of the older ones, who are even, and here is just the case of Italy, have been given a derogation in very old times. And probably nowhere in the country of those specific plant protection products is it possible to register or extend registration. Otherwise, yes, as you said, Mr Member, we are part of the zone, we are part of the middle zone. Where registration procedures in Slovenia are slightly cheaper than in other countries, many manufacturers also choose to register in Slovenia. This is then the income of the integrated state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u87	Mr Ljubo Žnidar, you have the floor for a procedural request to hold a debate on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Thank you, Minister, for that answer. In fact, I do not think that Slovenian farmers or producers of agricultural crops are fully aware of what it means to purchase plant protection products in this agricultural zone, that is to say Slovenia, Austria, Germany, or if they can even buy this starch outside this zone, that is to say in Italy. I believe that there is a need for greater awareness in this area. I absolutely agree with this view that tax revenues in our country should also be taken care of. I am absolutely in favour of this, but I believe that all users in the wider part need to be informed and, consequently, I propose a discussion on the registration of plant protection products both in the zone and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u89	Mr Ljubo Žnidar, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 14 February 2017, in the framework of the votes. Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec, you have the floor to ask the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Dr. Anji Kopač Mrak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u90	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, in the United Left Group we have recently received a letter from the pensioners of Cinkarna Celje, who have been violated constitutional rights in the past. As you know, in the 1990s some companies paid in the form of shares instead of wages or part of wages. This part of the salary was then taken into account in the calculation of the pension, and consequently, of course, these people today have lower pensions due to this fact. In 2002, the Constitutional Court also ruled on such cases and, of course, also repealed this legislation, which allowed such compensations, but the pensioners were thus unable to help themselves, since STIZ itself was not allowed to issue a new pension. However, in March 2015, the Constitutional Court re-judged, issued a new decision, and it was only on that basis that the ZPIZ gave some pensioners a higher pension. At the same time, however, a large part of these pensioners turned out to be, and the problem was that only a small part of these workers had to issue their decisions automatically, the others had to request an audit within two months and, of course, also obtain a new decision. Zincarna Celje was one of these companies where ZPIZ did not issue new decisions automatically and therefore gathered in Celje on 10 January this year at an approximate number of 300, 300 pensioners were there who were in some way again injured by this. However, I am also convinced that there are probably more such cases in Slovenia, and even those pensioners deserve, of course, their fair pension. That's why I'm asking you three questions: How many pensioners did the PPIZ rejuvenate after this official duty? How many required a review and then a re-assessment of the pension, and how many of these applications were resolved? How will you act to correct the injustices against all pensioners, not only those who have been on the basis of this decision of the Constitutional Court, but also those who have missed this 60-day deadline, and we can probably agree that this higher pension belongs to them too?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Dr. Anya Kopač Dark, Minister, will answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u92	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Thank you, Your Honor, for the question. In this regard, it may be necessary to say immediately at the outset that the decision of the Constitutional Court mentioned may in some way be specific, particularly since in 2015 the Constitutional Court made it clear in what way the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance must carry it out. The provisions of the ZPIZ-1 were no longer in force at the time and the Constitutional Court therefore specifically undertook the ZPIZ to do so. So, unfortunately, there is no equal opportunity here within the role of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs. Therefore, according to the decision of the highest authority on respect for human rights, the PIC has written and specified exactly how it should be implemented. It is now important that, in accordance with the instructions of the Constitutional Court’s decision, ZPIZ has conducted two types of proceedings, namely procedures under official duties and procedures established on the basis of audit requirements and the re-dose of pensions. Following an official duty, the Institute began to carry out the procedures for re-appropriation of pensions to pension beneficiaries in May, for which it found in the audit procedures that the shares for internal redemption were paid with the part of the salary included in the pension base and that part of the salary was not counted. On the basis of its official duty, 10 000 206 cases were examined, of which a change in the amount of the pension was made after the official duty and in accordance with the constitutional decision’s reference in 3 000 600 cases. At the request of the parties, since this was also one of the options set out in the Constitutional Court’s decision, i.e. on the basis of the request of the parties and the Constitutional Court, it also clearly set a 60-day deadline for the submission of the application, 33 000 977 requests for the review and re-assessment of the pension were submitted, with an indicative of 98 % of the applications lodged within the time limit set by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. However, the remaining applications were submitted after the prescribed deadline until the end of 2006. The positive decision in which the amount changed after the re-evaluation at the request of the party occurred in 8 thousand 544 cases. With regard to your question, we explain that the Office has issued a thousand 538 discard decisions as late as requested for the audit and re-dose of the pension. The deadline for submitting the request was set by the Constitutional Court. With regard to the issue itself in the Ministry of Labour's further proceedings, I would like to explain, as I have already stated in the introduction, that the Constitutional Court, as the highest body of the judicial authority for the protection of human rights and freedoms and the Ombudsman of the Constitution and legality, has set a 60-day deadline for the submission of a proposal for the introduction of an audit. At the same time, I stress that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia has not committed itself to informing all its undertakings of the envisaged possibility, but the Institute, namely the ZPIZ, has nevertheless published a press release on its website, in which it has reminded all potential beneficiaries of the possibility of initiating the audit. To this end, it has also prepared a specific application form for a review and a re-assessment of the pension. In addition, the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia was also publicly published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia and has been published several times in the media, both in newspapers and in various online media. I am sorry, but here within the decision because there is no longer a law in force, therefore the PPIZ no longer has this basis, and the decision of the Constitutional Court was very clear, it very precisely defined the way in which implementation is carried out. Here inside we need to look at how many of these were and what was within these thousands of 500, but here within the role of the Ministry of Labour it was not as a legislator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec, request a supplemental response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u94	Thank you, Vice President. The fact is that this decision of the Constitutional Court was very restrictive, but I would not have taken it so uniformly, so that it must be kept in full and not yet seek any other solution. The fact is, probably every right should be corrected in such a way that it applies to everyone, regardless of which company someone has worked in. This time, this correction of the injustices was mainly dependent on which company it came from or if it worked in one of these 42 companies, then you were on this list of STIZs, if not. But here we have to bear in mind that it is old people who have probably been retired for at least 15 years and it has been almost 25 years since they owned it. These pensioners probably didn't go to the Constitutional Court's decisions, they probably didn't even read the PRIZ press statements, so I think we should look for some solutions to help people with these. Suddenly, we could consider some legal aid if, by chance, the funds are not exhausted, but if they are, we might consider or make some effort to change the law in order to extend that period. I repeat, these are older people, older citizens and citizens, who should in some way be further relieved of these procedures. We know that searching for these forms, investing, this bureaucracy is complicated for a lot of people, I believe for someone who isn't informed or retired. So I'm interested in: Does the Ministry consider that, despite what the decision or instructions of the Constitutional Court was, is there any room for manoeuvre to resolve this situation and to please those others?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Dr. Anya Digger Dark, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u96	Perhaps I would point out once again, because there was no legal basis, the Constitutional Court established a method of implementation and therefore the PIC did not have discretion to say whether 60 or 90 or 120 days. So he's determined exactly how to perform. And here, look at the number, it filed 33 thousand 977 requests, so 98% were filed. I am sorry, and I agree that older people are difficult, even if we say how it was to inform that, yes, the deadline was relatively short, but the question is what is now possible with all that has been done, how many such cases, and we need to look at how this could be done. However, my basic position was that, if the individual belonged to a right, he paid, it would be right to be entitled to that right. However, we need to look at how that would be possible. However, the fact is that it is necessary to be aware of their rights that they need to be monitored in some way and all that. ZPIZ really made some effort at the time, and he wanted to help as many people as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Here you are, Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec, a procedural request.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u98	Thank you. I'll be very brief. In view of what the Minister has now said in the conclusion that we need to look at it, I propose that we open up this issue here, have a general discussion on this issue and try to find proposals together, or at least in the National Assembly, or find out what might be done here. I think we can come up with solutions or at least initiatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Member, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 14. February, in the framework of the vote. Ms Anita Koleša will ask the Minister without a department responsible for development, strategic project and cohesion, Mrs Alenka Smerkolj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u100	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much. Minister and Minister, nice greeting, especially to Minister Alenka Smercolj, who will be asked this question! The social, economic and political conditions so much occupy our understanding of the world that we forget that it is for tomorrow and that it is for tomorrow. We take decisions under pressure of time and unfortunately sometimes even short-sighted interests, while the world is becoming less and more pleasant and quality of living and living in it. That is why we all need a very urgent look into the future and the commitment to be here first in this part of the world in our country, so in Slovenia, we set a vision of our future as a kind of goal, where we want people and people of Slovenia. And that's what you, Madam Secretary, introduced to us a few days ago. The way you have dealt with the matter is extremely commendable, the vision has been written by our people in fact, comes from proposals and talks with Slovenians and Slovenians, because also in the realization of this future, we will participate all the people of Slovenia, one way or another. And that should also be borne in mind by those who are somewhat gnawing at the allegations in this vision, because I really don't know who doesn't want a happy Slovenia. We have heard many times in this national assembly that if you do not know where you are going, every path is wrong. We Members of the SMC very much agree with the objectives of this prepared vision, we are pleased to say that we have somehow identified ourselves with these objectives, but of course we know very well that the path to it will be difficult. But has anyone ever set a goal of being a world champion? Of course, it is easier to become a world champion in Slovenia than to convince 2 million people that we know and can. Now, Madam Minister, I ask you: Now we know about the goals, but somehow you can present to us in a short process of adopting the long-term development of our country, which will be the product of the widest consensus of Slovenian society. Otherwise, we congratulate you on this carefully prepared document and a lot of creative energy in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Minister Alenka Smercolj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u102	Dear President, honourable Member, the rest are present! Thank you first. Yes, a vision is something that is the first step in shaping some clearly designed course of long-term development. The vision paints a picture of the future. And it is true that this picture was greatly helped to make up the people and people of Slovenia. From here on out, much more important and much more concrete is the work that talks about how to make this picture come true or how to get there. We started last summer with very substantive preparations, a lot of analyses, which were also prepared for vision, we also used in these first steps of the development strategy. During the summer months, we made the first nine workshops with different experts, with different representatives of all departments, and we started setting goals. On the basis of all these summer discussions, then together, the Ministry of Finance, Umar and we have tried to draw up the first framework of strategic priorities, concrete objectives, and we have started to think about indicators, because no development strategy that will not in any way show us and essentially set some measurements for us, or actually achieve what we have set ourselves, will lead us forward. Because, in fact, without having a mirror, it won't work. Steps are like that. We forwarded the first drafts to the departments in December, and the authorities responded. We also had one workshop at the end of January. We have now, in fact, invited the professional public and are planning a document, this framework, to be given to the wider public debate of April and then to make further corrections, improvements in May. We want to reach this long-term development strategy by summer. This is possible for a short period of time, as we now imagine from this moment forward until summer. Then, of course, we have plans to move forward, because in the end we have an action plan. The most difficult part awaits us, because in the end we will also have to link specific projects to finance, of course, to the budget. This is then the last part, which will then take place from September onward and probably there by the end of December. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Šircelj will ask the Minister of the Environment and Space of Mrs Irena Majcen and the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petr Gasperšić.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, dear Minister! The question relates to the implementation of the Interstate Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia, concerning the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. Indeed, the fact is that some 16 years ago this Treaty was signed in the direction not only of safe operation, which is also mentioned in this Treaty, but also of the direction of decommissioning itself. The fact is also that the Interstate Commission has been set up, in these 16 years it has gone through different, I will say, timeframes and not only timeframes, but also content frameworks. However, it is true that, according to the latest data that we have also considered on the Commission for Public Finance Supervision, this Commission does not work. This Commission shall not act in accordance with the rules of procedure which it has written down itself, namely to meet at least once a year. It's actually in the contract itself. And of course in this direction, given that the Krško Nuclear Power Plant is in Slovenian territory, there may be some damage. In this regard, of course, I am interested in what both ministries or I think that one of them is more invited to the answer itself, and I have addressed this question to both of them because there have been changes, including organizational changes, in Slovenia and in Croatia. And the fact is that these ministries, both ministries, should in fact call on the Government of the Republic of Croatia several times, or even on the other hand, to rely on those articles, which determine the consequences of non-action, are also written in the Interstate Agreement. On this basis, the following questions are raised: What are the possible negative consequences if this commission does not work? What will the ministries do to make this commission act as soon as possible and to deal with the revisions of the programmes, with all that the Commission should actually do?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Ms Irena Majcen, Minister for the Environment and Space, will be the first to respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u106	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Primož Hainz, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Dear Member of the Mags. Andrej Shircelj, thank you for asking. As you yourself stated in the question, indeed, the Ministry of Environment and Space is not directly part of this management of the agreement with the Republic of Croatia. At the Ministry of Environment and Space, of course, we have an organ in our composition, the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Nuclear Safety. This administration carries out its functions, which are not directly related to your question, so that I continue to answer your question to the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Petr Gasperšić. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Dr. Peter Gaspersich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u108	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Dear Members and Members, Mr Andrej Shircelj! With regard to the functioning of this Interstate Commission, which has the official title that it is a commission to monitor the implementation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the regulation of the status and other legal relations relating to investment in and exploitation of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant. This Commission is composed of members of the Slovenian and Croatian delegations and each of these delegations is headed by a Minister responsible for Energy. The Interstate Treaty provides that the session of the Commission shall alternately refer to the Croatian and Slovenian sides and, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, as already mentioned, should meet at least once a year. I can say that at the last session of the Commission, which was held in July 2015, before which I believe that it was not for more than 6 years that it was concluded at this last session that, due to the new circumstances related to the long-term operation of the nuclear power plant itself, i.e. in Slovenia, it was decided that the operating period would be extended for the next 20 years, in short, in the light of these facts, the Interstate Commission agreed at this meeting to stop all activities that were under way in connection with the development of the second revision of the NEK decommissioning programme and the disposal of low- and low- and low-sale radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel. Furthermore, it was agreed that the expert organisation, together with the nuclear power plant, should prepare a proposal for a new audit project task, in essence two new audits. First, for the programme for the disposal of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel, and then for the proposal for a project task to develop a new revision of the NEK decommissioning programme. Thus, we now have separate audits of the nuclear fuel disposal programme itself and the revision of the NEK decommissioning programme. The expert organisations and NEKs are still being coordinated, but until now, full coordination has not yet taken place with regard to the content of the project tasks themselves, which can be said to be partly the result of the mid-term elections and the exchange of government, and also then those responsible for the questions of the Interstate Commission for the NEK on the Croatian side. As a result, this Interstate Commission no longer met after July 2015. For the next reference, however, it is now our Slovenian side, for which preparations for the meeting are already under way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mag. Spreadel, are you requesting a follow-up? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u110	Yes, thank you very much, Mr. Secretary-General, Madam Secretary-General! Look, we actually have about the same literature and the same documents that actually explain both of these or I'm asking. However, it was also set here in 2015 to prepare project tasks within three months for the revision of the programme for the disposal of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel and the revision of the NEK decommissioning programme. This is a press release from the Ministry of Infrastructure in 2015. But I am now interested, given that in the National Assembly we are also considering the report of the Krška Nuclear Regulatory Committee to address a number of documents on nuclear energy, that we are, of course, and certain people are concerned about this, and also because that provision is not being implemented, in fact this interstate contract, which determines the cost of doing business. And these costs, today said, were also relatively low, 3 euros per megawatt hour. In short, that was also a warning. Here are a number of questions, where you should, see, a respected minister, do something, I will not talk about action programmes, but some plan how this will even start to happen, because now it's all going to happen. But I am afraid that it is on Slovenia's account and that Slovenia will draw a shorter end here. And because of this, the economy does not function as it should, this commission does not work and, of course, it does not fulfil the tasks that should have already been carried out.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Dr. Peter Gaspersich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u112	Thank you very much again for your word. All this time since July 2015, the activities have started after many years and, unfortunately, I must admit this, because of the political situation on the Croatian side, unfortunately this activity on the Croatian side has fallen, then there have been changes of governments, re-exchanges and so on. And in all this time we haven't actually had a competent speaker, now we've got him back and there's another conversation going on. I can also say that in 2015 we informed the Croatian side of our plans to build a landfill, we invited them to study cooperation, but, as it is said, we do not yet have the reasons for their response. We are working on the fact that this intergovernmental group will meet again as soon as possible, that these matters will be dealt with and then we know which way we are going further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Lah will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnificent Nutrition. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, I am informed that in the implementation of the invitation to tender for the grant of co-financing from the Sub-measure Support for investments in agricultural holdings, which was published 12. 2. 2016, with deadline for receipt of tenders 18. 5. 2016, there has been a subsequent amendment to the conditions. The additional conditions laid down in Article 101(4) of the Regulation on the implementation of the measure Investment in fixed assets and sub-measures Aid for investment in forestry technologies and the processing, mobilisation and marketing of forestry products under the rural development programme of the Republic of Slovenia for the period 2014-2020 have been added. 5. 2016, when many tenderers have already submitted their applications. That's why I'm asking you: How is it possible to add a new condition just before the deadline for receipt of tenders expires? I also ask you: How many tenderers are before this condition is introduced, i.e. before 7. 5. 2016, submission of the complete application? In fact, the additional condition was published on the Agency’s website 13. 5. 2016, this is 4 days before the deadline for submission of applications, and on the Ministry’s website where tenders have been published, I do not think it has been published yet. Until then, in April 2016, some investors asked the agency exactly what guarantee they had to give in order to have financial coverage for the project and did not receive an answer in April. They were only told that they would receive this reply within a short period of time and that there was no reply, so they submitted their application before that deadline before receiving this reply and subsequently this change, which they did not even know about and to which they were given a decision at the end of the year that the application was incomplete. So please answer me.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u115	Mag. Mr. dean jedan, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u116	Thank you, Chairman. Thank you, too, Mr President, for the question. There has not been a change of conditions, the only thing that has actually been added is for public institutions. For public institutions. In fact, it was found that public institutions cannot provide evidence of the closure of the financial structure of the bank's statement, but that it is because of the way in which the State operates, and that is why it has been complemented here for public institutions in a way that is also possible as evidence to add to the decision of the board of the institution or the decision of the municipal council which guarantees its assets. Did this affect those who submitted their applications? It didn't work. It should also be said that 346 applications have been submitted, with a tender of EUR 8 million. The roles that met the criteria were 303 and occupied EUR 7 million 370,000. Therefore, this amendment was applicable and only applicable to public institutions. The fact is that the four public institutions have applied, but those two that have been approved have also been part of the simple investment group. In the case of simple investments, this rule does not apply to the statement of the bank or to the decision of the municipal council or the council of the institution. So I do not see, Mr Member, where this would have any effect on those who have invested and are not public institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u117	Bell Lah, you have the floor to request a response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u118	Look, Mr. Minister, it's not just public institutions, even though I have here one complaint where the application was rejected, one public institution. However, it is also an example of other not only public institutions where the invitation to tender or this supplement was made, and then of an invitation to supplement the application two months and more after the submission or after the deadline in which the applicants were invited to supplement the application by a statement from the bank to cover the entire investment, which was not included in the basic tender, another was possible and some took advantage of the latter. They then completed the application within 15 days, but the banks made their statements on the date of the application. It has also been stated that if the deficiency is resolved within the deadline, the application will be considered to be complete. Then they received a reply after six months, this year that the application or decision was received, but the appeal against the decision does not delay its enforcement, because it is written that the bank should date this statement before or before the date, that is before 18. 5. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. And because it wasn't, because it was dated when they had to supplement it, the role was discarded, which is not right, it's not fair.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u119	Minister Mag. Dean Jedhan, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u120	Now this is the only way I can answer it. If, in fact, the applicant considers that the decision at the Agency level was wrong and contrary to the invitation to tender and legislation, it is a normal procedure, a fully legitimate procedure and a second step will be decided and, if so, as the applicant thinks, he will receive the resources he thinks he is entitled to. However, if you want, I will read again what a concrete amendment to the regulation and the transitional decision was, and you will see that it was intended for public institutions and here, as far as I understand, for public institutions and those two public institutions that met the conditions, it turns out that they did not even have to change because they were running for a small investment, a simple investment. These, by the way, are now referred to as investments up to €200,000. So my proposal to the proposer you are quoting is that if he thinks that there has been an error in the decision-making process at the agency level, he should file a complaint. Some complaints have been resolved favourably, some complaints have been resolved differently, but in every sense, if he thinks he has the conditions, he should file a complaint. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u121	Mr Zvonko Lah, you have the floor for a procedural request to hold a debate at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u122	See, Mr Minister, I am informed that there have been many who have received rejected decisions, which have received decisions to reject and if they hold to what one of the applicants wrote in the complaint, then there are many of them. And if that is the case, then all those who failed to file an application or submitted it earlier and were not aware that they had to have a statement from the bank for the whole, which they claim, then there were very few of them, because within four days it was very difficult to obtain a statement from the bank, or they submitted only the correct roles that they knew about the change. Those who have complained are afraid that the new tender for 2017 should be in April, they believe, and if it is not decided by April of these complaints, then they cannot even apply for a new tender for 2017, because you cannot apply twice for the same invitation to tender, they say. That's why they're worried. I hope that these complaints will be dealt with in a timely manner and that they will be decided, that if they fall out, they will apply for a new invitation to tender if, as they say in April 2017, they will be able to obtain these funds if that application has been rejected as incomplete. However, I will ask myself if what you are saying is that it is only for the public institutions that it was not true for the others, then I do not know why the complaints, why they were rejected, why they were called to supplement the application, but they have completed it in due time, however rejected, because the bank cannot date back from two months ago, because it is contrary to the law and is a criminal offence and is threatened with imprisonment for 2 years if someone frustrates this statement. As set out in this Decision. They were invited to complete the application within 15 days and attached the bank's statement, but then it was said that the date should be up to 18. 5. rather than in the eighth month when they completed their applications. That's the problem. Even if this is true, yours, when they were invited to complete the application and if they completed it in time, if the bank's statement is two or three months later, it is even more likely that the bank will cover their investment than a three-month-old statement, which is based on the decision and the call I have here [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u123	Mr Lah, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Mr Primož Hainz, Minister of Finance Mag, will ask the next question. Matei Vranictor Erman. Here you go, Mr. Hainz.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u124	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Nice greeting to the government's present members, especially the Mag. Matey Vranick Erman! Colleagues and colleagues! I have, of course, the operation of banks in Slovenia, their lending policy and their recovery of losses for two and a half years or so. This time, of course, I ask the Minister the following question. We are also recently faced with suspicion that Slovenia has charged too much of the bank hole, which has resulted in too much tax money being spent on rehabilitation. In some media, it appears that Banka Slovenije has requested the largest domestic bank to include in the list of claims for transfers to a bad bank those claims of the creditors that did not meet the criteria for so-called bad loans. The Court of Auditors is also expected to find this in November, but the audit for commercial secrecy is blackened, darkened. The unmarked version of the audit report was then to be forwarded by the Court of Auditors to law enforcement authorities, which would suggest that the activities of those responsible in the process of resolution of the banking system were subject to the shadow of the suspicion of crime. You were a member of the Interdepartmental Group, which confirmed the lists of subsequent DUTB committees, so I ask: Did Banka Slovenije really influence the transfer of claims from companies that were able to repay loans, or was its role, as it claims, exclusively supportive or coordinated? Sub-question: Is it not, in fact, the Bank of Slovenia that is obliged to point out to individual banks the inconsistencies that have caused the uncontrollable financial balloon a number of billions? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u125	Minister of Finance Mag. Matthew Vrančnik Erman, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u126	Dear Mr Hainz, thank you for asking the question. In response, I must first explain what procedure for determining the risk items to be transferred to the DUTB is defined by the Act on Measures to Strengthen the Stability of Banks and the Regulation on which it is based. This procedure is a multi-stage process and, first of all, an individual business bank has developed its business restructuring strategy as part of an initiative to strengthen the stability of banks in accordance with the law and regulation, including data on risk items envisaged for the transfer to the DUTB. So the original list of risk items was prepared by the banks themselves. This list included risk items that met certain criteria, the criteria set out in the Regulation issued under the law, namely claims or assets and off-balance sheet items acquired by each business bank before 1 September 2012 and classified in one of the following three categories. It is the bank's claims and potential claims on non-payments if the value of the principal or accrued interest on the valuation day exceeds EUR 500 000. The second group consists of the bank’s equity investments in shares or shares in the core capital of companies established in Slovenia acquired by the bank on the basis of the realization of the insurance rights established in the interest of the bank at that capital investment or acquired by the bank in the event of an increase in the principal capital of the debtor by the payment of the actual deposit to which the bank’s claims were made to that debtor, so it is a debt conversion. And the third group consists of property acquired by the bank on the basis of the realisation of the insurance rights established for the benefit of the bank on that property. This is the first group of claims envisaged for the transfer. In accordance with the Regulation, it was also possible to transfer items which did not comply with these requirements to the DUTB if the bank justified the need for a change to the Bank of Slovenia and the Interdepartmental Commission agreed with the revised list, namely the basic criterion for such a transfer to increase the efficiency of the management of the DUTB or to increase trust in the bank. This exception has mainly allowed for the concentration of claims, which has allowed for the singleest possible management of DUTB claims and thus increased possibilities for successful restructuring. In the case at hand, since State aid was granted at the same time to two business banks, a certain debtor could be identified as a risk in one of the business banks or its obligations were treated as a risky loan, not in the other bank, and in order to ensure this consistency or greater efficiency of the repair, it was decided that a common approach to the debtor's claims vis-à-vis both banks was taken. On the possibility of these exceptional additional decisions or the determination of risk items, the Regulation provided that the Bank, i.e. the Business Bank, the Bank of Slovenia, with the participation of the DUTB and taking into account those criteria, lay down proposals for risk items. The proposals for these lists were submitted for further coordination by the Bank of Slovenia for further consideration by the Interdepartmental Commission and finally confirmed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on a proposal from the Interdepartmental Commission. If I finally touch on the role of Banka Slovenije, I can explain that Banka Slovenije has cooperated in the preparation of the lists in accordance with the powers given to it by law and regulation. It coordinated lists between banks that had taken the State Aid Initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u127	Mr Primož Hainz, you have the floor to request a supplement to the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u128	Thank you very much for your answer. Of course, I must say that I understand the criteria, I also understand this procedure, but in the end the government took part in this decision. Above all, the problem is that the Court of Auditors would probably not give such an opinion as it is, well, of course we don't know it, mostly, but nevertheless: What, then, is the Court of Auditors’ doubt if this decision has taken place in such a transparent manner? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u129	Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u130	The Court of Auditors shall have its powers under the Court of Auditors Act, the SDH Act and may, of course, carry out an audit of the operation in a particular company in which the State has a dominant influence. Such a company is also NLB. Each competent authority shall be obliged to perform the tasks in accordance with the powers conferred on it by law and other regulations. In the light of the question raised by the Member States, I explained the role of the Bank of Slovenia in the process of setting up the list of claims transferred to the DUTB. The subject of the audit referred to by you is only NLB and not Banka Slovenije or another bank which was simultaneously subject to State aid. And I conclude that, in this fact, there could also be a reason for different views on this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Breznik will ask the Minister of Infrastructure, Mr Peter Gasperšić. Mr. Breznik, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I see that the Minister of Infrastructure is on his way. Perhaps a little unusual, Mr Minister, although I am a member of the opposition, I would like to thank him for his visit to Lenart a few days ago, especially because the topic of the many problems that we are citizens, and especially the citizens and citizens of many villages in Lenart Rural, have experienced since 2008, 30 October, when he surrendered to the management of the section of the highway against Prekmurje, that was when Lenart-Vučija village was involved. After this project, we're kind of alone. As you know, the northern bypass, which is in the national location plan, has so far not been built and, of course, not many roads have been repaired. Some have been partially repaired, some have not. At that time, under the government of Borut Pahor in 2009, then Minister of Transport Dr Patrick Vlačič said that the rehabilitation would take place in a divided way, so the costs would be incurred, something would be contributed by the directorate, and in part Dars as an investor of the motorway leg. Unfortunately, many roads have not yet been repaired since this construction. In part, the road from Senarska to Lenart was repaired, which I had endured for a long time. But there are also many roads, especially the road that leads from the Church of Osek, past the Holy Trinity to Lenart, which is totally, we can say, still today, an important road of transport. In the second sphere, however, my question also relates to part of the Northern Carnivore. We made some commitments, so I'm asking you: Are you planning to set up a rebalance in any way in the next budget in 2018 and to provide more funding for road rehabilitation after the construction of the motorway and for state-owned location plans, which is also represented by the northern bypass in Lenart? Thank you very much, Minister, for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Dr. Peter Gaspersich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Vice President for your word. Thank you, too, Mr Franz Breznik, for the question raised. Yeah, it's true. It is not long before we met on my visit to Lenart, where we also discussed the possibility of realising the so-called Northern Lenarta Oblast, and there we have found certain solutions that will address this issue of freight transport in particular to the craft zone properly so that only the city core will no longer be burdened. And in this regard, I can say that the agreement reached there at the time of the visit, in order to make the 800 metres of the connecting road a priority, will be realized even in the coming years, so that we can put this project into the budget and also approach its implementation. And then, as we say, we're going to find an alternative solution to the northern bypass, so that it doesn't go through the settlement, but northerly. In the meantime, cross-border and signalling measures are also being implemented to allow access to the craft zone via the Senarska connection. As for other projects in the northeastern part of Slovenia, as elsewhere, in other regions of Slovenia we have now received more intensive activities because we succeeded already in 2016, as well as in 2017 and also in 2018 to provide more funds for investment in road infrastructure. These funds also have a upward trend, so we expect that more projects will be implemented this year than in last year and then in 2018, even more so, because all projects that are of this investment construction nature need a certain time to start, and yet in 2016, I will say, for at least half a year these projects have been put into construction, they have concluded contracts. These contracts are now concluded and work can be done intensively. If I just fly over, which projects are planned. It's a number of roadblocks, and I can mention the southern outskirts of Murska Sobota, where the construction tender is under way. Let us expect that we will start with parts this spring, but at the same time there are activities for the construction of the eastern suburb of Murska Sobota, where it is then envisaged to start building after the construction of this southern part. Then I mentioned Lenart. Other construction projects are also envisaged in Kidrič, where this railway is important for Talum itself. Then there is the railway line of the Slovenian Bistrica, which is important for the company Impol. Preparations are being made to start building an extension of the Proletar brigade road in Maribor, the so-called Limbuska road, a 2.2 km long bypass. The construction is expected to be completed in 2019. The property is purchased for the southern collection road in Maribor from the west to the connection of the Hoče–Slivnica – Pesnica motorway. For this, a €112 million project is worth the next year for the Streliška–Kardel phase, the completion of the demolition of buildings and then the acquisition of the building permit is also planned. However, documentation is also being prepared for the stage from Tržaška cesta to the connection on the highway near Rogoz. We also count that next year we will be able to rebuild the road and repair five facilities on the route of Dolnja Počehova-Zgornja Kungato. There are also major road renovations, namely Sveti Jurij-Kličarovci, Velika Polana-Gomilice-Lipa, Razkrižje – the border crossing of Gibin, Lendava-Petišovci, Lendava-Pince, Slovenska Bistrica-Hajdina. These sections will have a total length of approximately 35 km, from the reconstruction of the vehicle to the construction of the sidewalks or cycling routes where it is intended. Regular maintenance will also result in a type of overcoating following this north-eastern part of Slovenia by the same key as Raduhova-Senarska.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Beznik, are you asking for a supplement? No, thank you very much. Ms Vojka Šergan will ask the Minister of Health Milojka Kolar Celarc and the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Dr Anji Kopač Mrak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u136	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, dear Minister! Data from the Employment Office over the last few years indicate an increase in the number of unemployed doctors. While there is a shortage of doctors in the medical system, including in my local environment Zasavje, we face a shortage of doctors in the system on the one hand, and on the other hand we have a cadre, which after the completion of the medical faculty lands at the Employment Institute or is looking for better career opportunities abroad. We therefore address the question to the Minister of Health: Is it possible to attribute to this problem the insufficient number of registered specialist posts for doctors approved by the Ministry of Health on a proposal from the Medical Chamber of Slovenia? It's especially my way of putting it in such a way that it doesn't come to the Sulphur General Hospital. What are the measures envisaged by the Ministry for the more even distribution of healthcare personnel by hospitals and health homes in Slovenia, again in connection with the fact that this staff will then come to smaller hospitals such as Trbovlje or Brežice and some others? I refer to the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities: What is the real number and average period of unemployment of doctors who are registered at the Employment Service? How can such anomalies be eliminated in the highly specialised labour market? Who bears this authority? It is in the interest of the State and the people to place the staff which was trained by the State and who in fact invested money and resources in their education on the labour market. Thank you both so much for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u138	Hello, Mr Vice President, honourable Members, all others, Members, Members, colleague Anja and Peter! In the last three years, data are for the period from 1 January 2013 to 30 October 2016, according to these data, a thousand 238 graduates in both medical universities have completed medical studies in Slovenia. During the same period, thousands of 337 specializations were awarded. This means that 100 specialties were awarded more than there were graduates in both medical schools. The Medical Chamber of Slovenia is up to 30. 11. 2016 approved a thousand 193 specializations. This means that certain graduates wanted a specific specialisation, which unfortunately was not granted because either another candidate was selected or they did not apply for the specialisations. On 16 November 2016 the Medical Chamber of Slovenia therefore called for an additional 168 specialisations. According to the Employment Office of the Republic of Slovenia, the number of employees was 31. 12. 2016 in the register of unemployed persons registered with 149 medical graduates. This number includes both graduates waiting for a traineeship, as well as doctors waiting for the approval of a particular specialisation. Allegedly, more specialties have been awarded over the last three years, such as medical faculty diplomats. This information clearly shows that all medical faculty graduates in the Republic of Slovenia are allowed to obtain specialization and further work in the Republic of Slovenia and that the unemployment of doctors is not reflected in the insufficient number of specializations awarded. So almost exclusively those doctors who are waiting for a specific specialization are reported at the institution, and many of them are allowed to work as a so-called room doctor, which is a doctor after a traineeship without specialization, but also not all doctors choose to do so. In addition, under my powers on the initiative of public institutions which have found a marked shortage of certain types of specialists, under Article 7, paragraph 4, of the Act on the Recognition of Professional Qualifications, I approved or signed an order on the upper limit of the number of job offers in the Republic of Slovenia for 2016 to employ as many as 42 foreign doctors, of course the profile of which is the most lacking in Slovenia, namely 30 specialists in anesthesiology, reanimatology, perioperative intensive medicine, three doctors in radiology, five specialists in pathology, three physicians in pediatry and one specialist in internal medicine. I also approved the possibility of hiring 25 foreign doctors for this year, according to 2017, in the same way, and not to mention which types of specialisations. However, let me say that there are thousands of 831 specialists in the specialisation system who will be in the system by the end of 2022, and then we will address the shortage of doctors in our system, because somehow we will reach the EU average.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Will you give your colleague a chance so she doesn't have half a minute? Here you go, Mrs. Private Shergan.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u140	I would also like an answer from Minister Anja Kopač.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u141	Here you go, Dr. Anya Digač Dark.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u142	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Your Honor, thank you for asking. My data will basically be quite similar to the data that the Minister has told us, perhaps in one part more accurate as regards the structure among the unemployed. At the end of December 2016 187 doctors of medicine and dental doctors were registered in the unemployment register. So this, as the secretary has already said, was 149 doctors of medicine and 38 doctors of dental medicine. When data on the education of doctors of medicine and dental medicine are compared with the profession of last employment, at the end of December their professional structure was the following: 107 were doctors, of which 14 were specialists. 24 were dentists, 1 expert in traditional and complementary medicine, 5 other health professionals and 13 persons who were employed in another profession before unemployment occurred, and 37 were the first job seekers. If we look at doctors of medicine and dental medicine after employability, the structure is: 127 are directly employable, 56 of them are employable with additional activities, and 4 of them are employable with intensive, in-depth support. At the end of December, the average duration of unemployment of all doctors of medicine and dental doctors was 6.8 months, and the average duration of unemployment was 2.4 months directly employed, 13.1 months additional and more than 4 months more intensively supported. To solve their problems, of course, the Employment Service can help as much as it is, because they need additional support, which are linked to other people, because they have very different characteristics, why they are unemployed and, of course, their employment is not only dependent on formal education, but other conditions of course affect this. However, as far as these specialists are concerned, the issue is, of course, the job opportunities that are open to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr Daniel Krivec will ask the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Peter Gasperšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u144	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President, a nice greeting to ministers and ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Dear Minister, Dr. Peter Gasperšič, I will ask about the energy concept of Slovenia: What time will be the day of the procedure in the National Assembly? And the second issue will touch on the novelties of the energy law proposing the so-called priority dispatching, or the CRM mechanism. And I ask him: Is this primarily intended for the resolution of thermoelectric block 6 in Šostanje? The energy concept of Slovenia is based on some documents, which are also available in professional literature, a basic development document in the field of energy which, in accordance with the adopted energy law based on the country's economic, environmental and social development projections and on accepted international commitments, sets out the objectives of sustainable and competitive energy supply for the next 20 to 40 years. Many stakeholders are involved in the preparation of this concept. It is said that at this point it is in the procedure that this is a consultative document, and we are talking about the document itself from the time before we essentially amended Energy Law 1, there was a lot of talk at the time about the need to adopt the concept of energy development in the Republic of Slovenia and, on this basis, of course, all other legislation. The fundamental purpose of energy policy in these documents is to ensure sustainable energy management, and this framework will focus on three aspects of sustainability: climate acceptability, security of supply and competitiveness. And now that we are looking at other documents related to the preparation of this concept of energy development in Slovenia, we are reading some conclusions. The adequacy of those criteria, as previously mentioned, the assessment of the acceptability of energy sources or their extension, such as climate acceptability, should also cover wider environmental acceptability. That's kind of understandable. It mentions competitiveness to cover both the price of energy from a single source and its wider macroeconomic effects. However, when we come to this concept, we will quickly come to this priority dispatch and CRM mechanisms, which also enable energy companies or suppliers who are not able to survive. And that's why I'm asking: Is this CRM and the priority dispatch in the case of Slovenia simply intended to rescue the Termoelectrica Šostjanj, Block 6?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Dr. Peter Gaspersich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u146	Thank you, Chairman for your word. Thank you, honourable Member, Mr Daniel Krivec, for the question raised. If I first focus on preparing the energy concept of Slovenia, it is true that the energy law provides that the energy concept of Slovenia, based on the country's economic, environmental and social development projections and on the basis of the international commitments adopted, should set the objectives of secure, sustainable and competitive energy supply for the next 20 years, and then also indicatively for the entire 40 years to come. So what are the objectives of sustainable and competitive care, in fact, you have already described nicely in your question. However, I can say that in 2014, we also held intensive public discussions on the origins of the energy concept. Only work encountered a certain obstacle when we encountered complications in issuing a long-term balance sheet contract, i.e. after several unsuccessful attempts only last autumn, in autumn 2016, and these long-term balance sheets are then a basic document for the production of this energy concept, because we have so far only produced these mid-term balance sheets by 2030, and we need them for the concept, that is, for the next 40 years. Thus, after the award of this order, the work runs intensively. The results themselves, the product of these long-term balance sheets are expected at the end of March, and on this basis we will prepare the draft of this energy concept as soon as possible, which will then have an impact on the environment, public treatment and inter-resortmental coordination, which will then be forwarded to the Government by the end of this year, and then to the National Assembly by the end of this year. We will certainly make sure that these procedures are carried out as quickly as possible, even for this purpose, we have already carried out these numerous public consultations, both with the general public and with energy stakeholders and the wider economy. As for the measure itself, the proposal for priority custody proposed in this amendment to the Energy Act, which we have referred to for public consideration, is in fact not enough to add to what the President of the Government has already explained today. This is therefore a measure that does not serve to save the investment in TES 6. This investment has finally happened, it's closed. Block 6 is online. It is, however, that in cases where there are record low electricity prices on the market across the European Union, in fact, all producers of electricity from thermal power plants are faced with a loss of business. In fact, their production price is higher than the electricity price on the market and, by economic logic, would be forced to stop their production under such conditions. If this happened in the case of this company, the entire Slovenian energy system would face great difficulties in providing the necessary energy for the secondary regulation of the electricity system, this is the regulation by which the distributor or transmission network operator provides or coordinates these fluctuations between the consumption and production that occur and which occurs in a very short period of time. To this end, neither the power from hydro power plants nor the appropriate nuclear power plant is suitable. In theory, however, these services could in some way be provided from imports and these services with the current state of the network cannot be adequately provided. Therefore, for the purposes of the stability of the functioning of the electricity system, we propose this measure, which is not the only measure to be implemented [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr. Daniel Krivec, are you requesting a follow-up? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u148	Yes, thank the Minister for these answers in this first round. I think he's explained some things, but I'm certainly surprised he's been dragging himself around with the energy concept for so long. The Minister himself made it clear at the hearing and several times on the committee that this material would come to our parliamentary bench, because the National Assembly confirms this document much earlier. So now this promise that it will be in March, I don't think it will be realized, as it was with the second track. It is surprising, however, that within the country, with all the experts and institutes we have, we are not able to prepare some documents in due course and, in fact, to us in the meantime, a real state of overcoming both within the country and the conditions of goods that other countries place on us or on the European Union. So these documents need to be speeded up. We have the Milan Vidmar Institute, which could prepare these starting points and be ready for some normal discussion. However, as for the second part and the CRM of the mechanism, I am not quite sure that the interpretation given by the Minister is relevant, because at the moment when the water is either low or low, the thermal power plants are also highly viable at the moment. This fact can be hypothetical if some energy from a production source is not market-oriented or uneconomic. I think it's premature to try to close these balances this way. Energy is not as low at this point as it has been in the past and is likely to increase in the short term rather than in the short term. So I expect that there will still be a lot of debate on this CRM mechanism and also on the possible resolution of Block 6 in terms of operation. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Dr. Peter Gaspersich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u150	Yes, thank you very much for that additional question. As far as the energy concept is concerned, the situation is just as I explained. Where are the reasons for this delay in his preparation? I can also say that, in the meantime, there has also been a new moment in which, within the framework of the European Union, a concept or a starting point and a direction for the operation of the Energy Union has been developed, even by the European Commission itself, we have been asked to work in some way with our energy concept and to move forward in line with the preparation of these guidelines and, therefore, the Energy Union itself. I therefore assess that this energy concept can therefore be prepared for consideration in the National Assembly at the end of this year. As for priority custody, once again, I can actually say what you've already confirmed. This measure is, of course, a measure allowing for some conduct in the event that the market situation is such that production at thermal power plants should otherwise be stopped. This year's January was due to low watersheds, due to an exceptional winter in this respect completely different. The prices of energy produced on the market were higher than, say, produced by the Šostanj thermal power plant, which is why it actually operated positively this month. However, it will not be necessary to do so every month, when economic logic requires stopping and then we can have a mechanism at our disposal when this is not necessary and thus ensure the stable and reliable supply of Slovenian customers. That's all this is about. And these facts that these market prices are changing can also ensure that this measure may not even be necessary. These were also reflections on the adoption of this current energy law in 2014, when the current market situation was somehow such that it was accepted at the time that this mechanism, the prioritisation, which was in force before that, was, for example, the priority of energy from the Thermoelectric Trbovlje, was, in short, then in 2014, an assessment that we would no longer need this mechanism in the future. The current market situation is unfortunately different. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mrs Violeta Tomić will ask the Minister for Culture, Mr Anton Persak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u152	Dear Presidents, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues! I will ask the Minister of Culture about the art collection of the New Ljubljana Bank, which we know is in the sales process. In the past, Ljubljana banks and later Nova Ljubljanska Banka have earmarked a number of funds to buy art works from art. In this way, they helped and encouraged art creators. So NLB now owns a rich collection of Slovenian contemporary art. According to some indications, this collection is priceless. In 1999, an NLB art collection was also established. In recent years, NLB has closed several businesses where some of the purchased art works have been exhibited. As we know, they were exhibited in the halls and the offices of the bank. Eight offices were closed this June and 22 were closed in 2014. Since the Republic of Slovenia has always been an important owner of NLB, this cultural heritage must be adequately protected and accessible and the public interest in their fate is much more pronounced. That's why I want to know: How many works does NLB own? How many were bought at the time of the SFRY? What share of art purchased in the SFRY has NLB already sold? What happened to the works of art that were exhibited in the closed offices of the New Ljubljana Bank today? How much and what art did NLB buy after 2013? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Pershak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u154	Dear Mr President, honourable Member! The question is, I must say, very important. Unfortunately, I can't answer him as much as I'd like to, as you would. The point is that the NLB collection is essentially privately owned by its status. Therefore, most of these questions, with the exception of a few assessments, could not possibly be answered in concrete terms, but they could all be very approximate. As it is said, the collection of NLB has no special status under the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage, is not classified as a national wealth, is not declared a moving cultural monument or is not committed to the management of a state or authorized museum, in some similar cases, for example, it is. There are cases like this. The Ministry of Culture has never received a proposal to grant any of these statuses of this collection. Therefore, the Ministry of Culture does not actually have any jurisdiction over the entire collection. By decree declaring the area of the Republic's Market as a cultural monument of national importance, only those art works, which are an integral part of the dedicated art equipment of the Republic's Square, were declared a cultural monument. For them, a modern gallery produced an inventory book in 2015. It lists 142 art pieces from the NLB tower, and identifies the guardian of the collection. Copies of this inventory book are held by the owner of the collection, the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage and the Modern Gallery. This, it seems, is the only part of the collection that is somehow under review and some kind of control. The art collection, today's NLB, was established in 1999 to systematically support the development and promotion of Slovenian art. The dissemination of cultural awareness through concerted action with professional institutions in this area encourages the dissemination of the awareness of art as an integral element of the quality of life and of the relationship in its own environment, and this is of course so much more important. The cultural heritage acquired and managed by the bank throughout its existence confirms its origin and tradition. As an expert, Dr Stane Bernik participated in the development of the collection. In particular, the catalogue of the collection, which I am talking about in the column, is available on the NLB website. The specific records of private collections and private museums in the Cultural Heritage Protection Act are not prescribed and the Ministry of Culture cannot and cannot maintain such records. The Ministry may keep records and data on the private collection of movable property only if the owner expresses his wish to regulate the status of the monument or agrees to acquire from the status of the monument. The mobile collection shall be given its legal status by means of a declaration act which shall be adopted by the Government, on a proposal from the State or an authorised museum, for monuments of local importance, by the competent municipal authority. A transferable inheritance without the owner's consent cannot be declared a monument unless the owner of the inheritance is unknown. Where the collection is a monument, the natural or legal person may keep it only if he meets the spatial and technical conditions for its storage. These conditions are laid down in the Regulation on professional spatial and technical conditions for the performance of the public service in the field of cultural heritage protection. If these conditions are not met, then of course the one who declared the monument must take responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs Violeta Tomić, you have a request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u156	Thank you for your word. Once again, it is an invaluable value and, as far as I know, the Republic of Slovenia is still the owner of NLB. So you're saying if the owner makes a wish that this status is settled. I don't think it's too late for this to work out, because that's gonna lose the priceless wealth we have. Being privately owned, I can't agree. Private property of who? The NLB is still owned by the Republic of Slovenia and we are citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and more, here in the National Assembly we can express a clear desire and intention to get rid of these things. You mentioned Stan Bernick. He stated that every purchase was documented. As responsible owners of a large collection of works of art in the 20th century, representing an important cultural heritage, artistic works represented the public not only in Slovenia but also in other countries. In short, the collection has more than 100 years of tradition, because it started at the time of the City Custody. I think it's unacceptable for us to lose an invaluable collection of works of art that is worth more than we're going to get purchases for this NLB. Here are the works of Janez Bernič, Bogdan Borčič, Rick Debenjak, Gustav Gnamush, Herman Guardjančič, Richard Jakopic, Matija Jama, Andrej Jemc, Victory Jeraj, Boris Jessa, Silvestre Komel, Tonet King, Metka Krašovec, Lojzet Logar, Gabriel Stupice, Iva Šubica, Sada Sušnik, in short and might mention. I ask you, Mr. Secretary-General: What can we do specifically to protect this collection of works of art? For by this we lose, and as a cultural country like the Slovenians, as a civilized society, we must by no means allow ourselves to be allowed.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Anton Pershak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u158	Thank you. Regret is such that the owner of these works is a separate legal entity of Nova Ljubljanska Banka, which is, in fact, mostly owned by the Republic of Slovenia and its founder is in some ways a state, but operates legally in relation to the assets of the Ljubljana Bank as the owner of the Ljubljana Bank as a legal person. But it needs to be looked at a few more. On the one hand, it is very welcome that companies, whether they own, participate, say, in the art market and in this way solve the issue of existential importance for artists. On the other hand, this means that, in essence, it is not appropriate to lay down such conditions as to have access to art that would hinder or undermine companies in order to do so. But the question arises when a situation like now with NLB, when, say, it can be sold to foreigners, with property worth. What now, how to prevent alienation? The owner, as the legal person of the NLB, has all the competence over this property. All that matters is that it's rationally straight. We can probably arrange for the obligation for the collection to be made compulsory, in terms of some pre-emptive right, to offer to the state, but this would also mean that the Ministry should have, for example, a permanent and substantial amount of resources, so to speak, reserved for such cases. Because this has already happened to us in the past, for example, that some collection has appeared on the market and we have not actually had these funds, because it means that the multimillion-dollar sums should be reserved. Like, an example of the Factor Bank. But there's an extra problem. However, the collections are imprecise, and often there is no telling where the works are. All works are not of the highest value, the country has no interest in buying everyone, but owners want to sell the entire collection without exception and so on. We are aware of the problem at the MK, the Ministry and the Ministry will have to consider what solutions to such cases will be envisaged sooner than later.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mrs. Violeta Tomic, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u160	Thank you for your word. I think it would be necessary to discuss this subject, because, according to my information, why I even triggered this question, these works of art are now in empty rooms and are stacked around some corners. And anyway, anyone can alienate them, they can get a lot of things going on. You're saying NLB owns it. Who is this NLB, I'm interested. The NLB, as I know, is state-owned, once again. And let the state take care of its assets. He can't just give it away. You're making rational behavior. I don't understand what rational behavior is either. I think it is the most rational thing to do to protect our interest, to protect our cultural heritage and, as I have already mentioned, invaluable artistic property. In short, I think that we could discuss this, that we should do it, and I hope that the Members will back me up in this, because I am sure that the time is running out, but I am sure that where there is a will, there is a way and that we can save this art collection from collapse or alienation just like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Mrs Violeta Tomić, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on 14 February in the framework of the vote. Mr Marko Ferluga will ask the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Peter Gasperšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u162	Thank you for your word. Greetings to the Minister and both ministers. First of all, I'm going to apologize. The minister is not going to you. He's going to Darsa's work. It's actually an old new thing that repeats itself as a calendar, as you would say in a song. That was Friday, 13. - you won't believe it. Before that, there was a truck fire on this famous, unfortunate mountain range. But no matter what it was, the thing went into chaos, which I personally relived, so I had this experience of my own, very nice, winter. I have to say that I was not angry, angry, because I thought all the systems that were supposed to work had failed. What's this all about? Despite the fact that it has been clearly and loudly said that precipitation will be; despite the fact that the competent services should be ready – I am mainly talking about Dars, that something will not be wrong – despite knowing that there is an operating center at Dars, where they control how traffic is moving and how the backlogs are, and how they have to work; despite Dars having the authority to exclude trucks, which, when they should, rarely happen, I am interested in the following. According to my intel, the police on the highways no longer have this authority, but they've crossed Dars. I'm interested in your opinion on this. I am interested as a citizen who was on the road at the time, because it is unacceptable that the actual system at 10 cm snow on the highway, on the main vein, has stopped from the coast towards Ljubljana and beyond. And he always stops at this unfortunate highlander and we always have the same problems because the trucks aren't being eliminated. So, I say, I'd like your opinion: How and what will be done next? These things happen year after year, and every time the first snowfall happens. With the technique Dars has today, it's unacceptable. So much for me, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Peter Gaspersich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u164	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Thank you, too, for the question raised by the honourable Member, Mr Mark Ferruga. This question concerns the situation in this January with this first heavy snowfall, which was indeed Friday, 13, which unfortunately did not pass without complications. We can explain why these problems occurred, much has been said here, only once again that the weather conditions were true that day, I will say, very unpleasant. We know that before this snowing the extreme cold was that the ground, the roads, the asphalt was very hypothermia. Then came the previous rain, which washed off the roads all the salt, which had previously been sprinkled preventively, in order to act in case of snowing. Then, of course, it began to snow heavily, and on the cool ground from which the salt was washed, the snow began to gripe, freeze, and many of the conditions that were very difficult to control. With regard to this event at the top level, however, the whole matter was further complicated by this unfortunate case, which, of course, could not have been anticipated and acted differently from the action taken, which is this fire of the freight vehicle which occurred at 13.55 when intervention services were also notified. This event occurred before it started to snow, at that time it rained, and at 2.10 p.m. at the request of firefighters who were already there at the intervention, due to the need to carry out extinguishing procedures and thus to continue the complete closure of the motorway towards Cyprus. So, 15 minutes after the fire, the highway was closed. The prison lasted about 35 minutes, a complete prison, and at that time a three - kilometre column was created following this incident. After these 35 minutes, traffic was restored only after the emergency belt, but due to the slow unfolding, this column only increased and the whole intervention was then completed, i.e. the vehicle was also removed, only at 18.10. Of course, it started to snow, but because of this stopper that was created, there were also these reptiles trapped in this situation, sprinklers who, of course, could not, regrettably, do it as they would otherwise. As a result, the snow began to snow on this high-rise klana, it became a smooth snow, irrigated snow, which also caused many sliding cargo vehicles, including others who were less equipped, so that the situation was then very difficult to resolve, and intervention was only able to resolve this until the evening. As far as the elimination of vehicles is concerned. In our opinion, the elimination of goods vehicles on the highway is properly regulated. Only the road operator has these exact data, when and where to dispose of the goods. In the past, when self-exclusion occurred, of course, the drivers could not know what was happening on the road ahead of them, and they did not get expelled in time, since timely elimination is usually necessary — for example, if problems are on the horse’s klan, they should be eliminated and eliminated already in Celje or on the Ljubljana ring. In order to ensure the elimination of cargo vehicles, the police were also transferred to the toll inspectors, but the police also had powers, and in this particular case the police had already ruled out at the Šentilj border crossing and also at Vrhnika's exports, and some violators who did not respect this expulsion had been punished. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Ms Susana Lepi Šimenko will ask the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petr Gasperšić, and Minister of Health Milojka Kolar Celarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u166	Thank you so much for your words, chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, all present, distinguished ministers, welcome! The placement of high-energy power lines in space must be safe and, of course, harmless, especially for humans, and of course also for animals and the wider environment. I'm afraid that's not always the case. This is also indicated by a number of civil initiatives that have been created throughout Slovenia, which point to the inappropriate installation of the power lines. If I present the example of the municipality from which I come from, this is the municipality of Videm pri Ptuj, I can say in concrete terms that it is in the immediate vicinity of the route – we are talking about the remote route Cirkovce–Pince, i.e. two times 400 kilovolts – there are about 300 houses in the immediate vicinity, more than a thousand inhabitants. Of course, the people of this municipality, as I believe, are all the others, and we have been warned, for the first time, to: Why was such a route chosen? And secondly: Would it not be more appropriate to arrange for the excavation of such power lines in particular in areas and settlements? Last but not least, the case of the congregation of Videm pri Ptuj. Here's the route across the Protective Area, across the Natura 2000 area, and we're really wondering: Why was such a choice even made? According to the press statement given after the 108th regular meeting of the Government, this was in November 2016, it is for this route that Cerkovci–Pince Eles will prepare a study on the appropriateness and appropriateness of cableling. I, the well-respected Minister of Infrastructure, am interested in: Is this study done? Did you give a similar study to someone else, not to an investor, which means to Eles? It states here that you will inform Members: When will Members be informed about this, and what are the results of this study? Dear Minister of Health, I am interested in: What is the exposure of people living in the immediate vicinity of these wires? What would be the difference in the case that we're talking about built power lines compared to when there would actually be trenches? Finally, the National Institute for Public Health points out that in cases where it is not yet clear what the consequences are to respect the precautionary principle. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Peter Gaspersich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u168	Thank you for your word. Thank you, too, Members of the Union, for asking a question. Here I can say, with regard to this placement of high energy or, in general, power lines into space, that the ministry here appears as an initiator of these procedures for putting into space. The investor, in most cases this is Eles, then also prepares these procedures, i.e. all the necessary analyses, documentation, projects and so on. The procedures themselves are conducted in accordance with the rules on placement in the premises, that is in the law. The main here is the Law on the Placing of Spatial Arrangements of State Interest into Space, and the details are then laid down by two sub-laws. This is in particular the Regulation on criteria and conditions for determining spatial arrangements of State importance and the Regulation on the content, form, method of preparation of the State Spatial Plan, while the environmental impacts themselves, i.e. each project and also the high-voltage long-range, on human health are examined in the context of a comprehensive environmental impact assessment process and also later in the environmental impact assessment phase. With regard to these high-voltage power lines, I would add that these projects, which we place in Slovenia, are also classified by the European Commission as energy projects of common interest, which means that in 2013 the European Commission, through a regulation on guidelines for pan-European energy infrastructure, set out essential corridors and areas important for the construction of this integrated energy network. Thus, this Regulation also affects the European legal order in the areas of space regulation, environmental impact assessment and public participation, in particular in the context of the establishment of a clear timeframe. This Regulation also imposes and provides that each Member State or its competent authority must publish a manual on allowing processes applicable to projects of common interest. This manual is available on the websites of the Ministry of Environment and Space and also on the websites of the Ministry of Infrastructure and in its annexes sets out the obligations and tasks of how these processes run, how they are allowed and what these placement schemes are. As far as this proposal of yours is concerned, in cases where these remotes are approaching the settlements, digging will take place. We often encounter these proposals, virtually every far-off. It was also agreed here, together with the Ministry of Environment and Space, that the Electromagnetic Radiation Regulation itself should be amended, so that these impacts, possible impacts, are indeed controlled to the least extent possible, as you have said, also to the precautionary principle. To the extent that all these criteria would also be met, these effects would still be too large for all of these maximum deviations provided, then other options for placement than finding another route, or if there is no other route for the dig to be carried out. In this case, of course, there are no other options. However, as has been said, in all the projects that have been put into space so far, these rules have been respected, so I am sure that too in this particular case some of the excessive influences of this facility on the population will not be achieved.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mrs. Susana Beautiful Šimenka, do you request a supplement to your answer? Will you give the secretary a chance?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, you did not answer me: What about the study prepared by Eles on the appropriateness of cableling, and when will we get it to the National Assembly and be briefed by Members? Actually, I'm interested in: What are the differences in costs when it comes to cables – I am speaking in those areas where the settlements are concerned – and then what are the differences in the cost of maintaining these cables compared to those when it comes to maintaining these cables underground? Of course, there is also a need to take into account the exceptional weather conditions that are taking place and which are causing great costs. Dear Minister, you haven't reached the point yet. I'll repeat the question. I really want to know: What is the difference between exposure to human health; those living in the immediate vicinity of these transmission lines, compared to those where these built-in cables are concerned? We're talking about these high-voltage cables, an example of two times 400 kilowatts.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mrs. Milojka Kolar Celarc, please. And if you leave some more time with your fellow minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u172	Thank you for asking. Nicely greeted! From the point of view of health protection and the role of the Ministry of Health, I should say that our ministry, through the National Institute of Public Health, is involved in the placement of important economic infrastructures, including power lines, into a space based on Articles 42 and 52 of the Environmental Protection Act, where, in the context of a process of comprehensive environmental impact assessment and environmental consensus assessment, it gives written opinions on the acceptability of impacts, the implementation of State spatial plans or interventions from the point of view of health protection. On the subject of electromagnetic radiation, very low frequencies. This has been the subject of research for decades. In accordance with the International Cancer Research Organisation, electromagnetic radiation has classified this radiation as a 2B carcinogenicity group, which means that there is limited evidence that electromagnetic radiation causes very low frequencies of childhood leukaemia. This classification was based on studies that showed that children exposed to magnetic fields greater than 0.3 to 0.4 microtypes are more likely to develop leukaemia on a 24-hour average. The potential connection between electromagnetic radiation of very low frequencies and childhood leukaemia was later addressed by a number of other studies, but no definitive evidence was found and the studies were found to be methodologically weak and the results were mostly statistically insignificant. It is precisely because of this scientific uncertainty that the exposure of the population or children to electromagnetic radiation to a very low frequency to the final response of science on the impact of child leukemia should be guided by the precautionary principle and the route should be designed so that it does not affect or affect schools, kindergartens and residential facilities where children reside.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Dr. Gaspersich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u174	Really, just for a little while. I suggest that we prepare these questions in writing on price, namely differences in laying and maintenance, as well as on the study, because they are a little more complex in nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Susanna Beautiful Šimenko, a procedural request.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u176	Mr. President-in-Office. In view of what we have heard here today, we have found, last but not least, that this area is extremely wide and covers almost the entire territory of Slovenia, and the people from various parts are affected by the placement of these high-energy power lines in the area. That is why I propose that a broader debate be held in the National Assembly on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Ms Susana Lepi Šimenko, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on 14 February, tomorrow, in the framework of the votes. Mr Jernej Vrtovec will ask the Minister of Health, Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u178	Dear Madam Secretary, good afternoon. My question is biopsychology. See, biopsychology is a publicly valid educational course implemented at a public institution, Faculty of Mathematics, Science and Information Technology, member of the University of Primorska. The study programme is designed to be comparable to related programmes abroad, and it also foresees the employability of graduates at home and in the international environment, especially in the field of health, as there are desirable competences related to psychological counselling, knowledge of mental illness, health and prevention in the field of mental health. Graduates of biopsychology are capable of interdisciplinary integration of scientific disciplines and understand the practical importance of the relationship between the impact of genetics and the environment on behavioural patterns. They know and understand the causes and development of central nervous system disorders and know the basic methods of treatment and research in the field of central nervous disease study. These are some of the specific competences of biopsychology graduates who were successfully used in a specific working environment during the course of their studies and were recognised as quality and professional personnel in the field of health. However, in order for the students of biopsychology to carry out their training and professional examinations in the field of health care, it is also necessary to fulfil the first formal condition, namely the listing of biopsychologists on the list of professions for health activities, which sets out the professions of healthcare professionals and healthcare professionals, their work area and the degree of complexity of work in the field of health activities. Therefore, in the field of health, the Minister is responsible and, therefore, the requirement to regulate the formal condition for the possibility of employment of biopsychologists is addressed to you, Madam Minister. I want to know: What are the procedures and conditions for listing biopsychologists? How long can these procedures take?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Minister, Mrs. Milojka Kolar Celarc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u180	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr Vrtovec, thank you for the question. The Health Activity Act in its first paragraph of Article 62 lays down who may carry out a medical activity or who may carry out a medical activity by healthcare professionals who have an appropriate professional education, are professionally qualified to carry out their own work in their profession and meet other conditions laid down by this law and other rules. Medical professionals shall also carry out designated health-care professional tasks with appropriate professional education of a non-health nature, as provided for in Article 62 of the Health Act. The Minister of Health shall lay down, on the basis of the provisions of the Health Act, a list of professions for health activities, specifying the professions of healthcare professionals and health professionals, their work area, the degree of complexity of work in the field of health activities. The Ministry of Health is following the opinions of the extended professional colleges, as well as the needs of health employment, when including a new profession in the list of health professions. The biopsychology programme is based on the ISCED system, which is an international standard classification for the classification of publicly valid education, classified among sciences of living nature, and according to the system Klasius, the programme is classified in the field of science, mathematics and computing, and not in the field of health or medicine, or in the field of psychology, such as in psychologists and psychologists. Therefore, biopsychology students do not acquire sufficient competence to work in health care. At the same time, it should be pointed out that at the Ministry of Health with an educational programme and a new profession, we were not informed until March 2016 when we received the initiative to include a study programme on biopsychology as a condition for specialisation in clinical psychology. Such situations could be avoided if a proposal for a new education programme, prior to the submission of one to the accreditation of the National Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Quality in Higher Education, had obtained prior consent or the opinion of the competent ministry, in a specific case of the Ministry of Health. The placement of educational programmes by applicants in the qualification framework of health care, even though they do not belong there, cannot be a commitment or a guide to the Minister to regulate the new healthcare profession. In health care as a healthcare professional, a psychologist works in health care. The qualifications of the latter may be obtained by a person who has completed a two-stage master's degree in psychology, traineeship and examination. Therefore, as a psychologist in health care, someone who has only completed the first stage of a psychological study programme, such as this case of biopsychologists, cannot be employed. In the light of all the above, a biopsychologist cannot be included in the list of professions in health care.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u181	Mr Marijan Pojbič will ask the Minister of Finance of the Magi a question. Matei Vranictor Erman. Here you go, Mr. Pojbich. [[advertising from the hall]] I'm sorry. I missed it. The Minister of Health, too. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Your Honor! In the so-called health reform, a new contribution is also proposed between the new burdens of citizens and entrepreneurs for insurance for injuries and diseases caused by capital income of 6,36 %. We all know that the fundamental motive is practically anyone who chooses to make a profit or make a profit. If an entrepreneur acts as a legal entity and creates profits, it is firstly taxed with 19 % if this profit is paid in the form of dividends, it is still taxed with 25 % of the income. If a new contribution is made to capital income of 6,36 %, it will also be taxed by this contribution. Taxation of an entrepreneur who pays his profits will therefore be more than 50%. More than 50% of taxation means that the Mira Cerar government will tax entrepreneurs as criminals. A similar tax burner will also fall after independent entrepreneurs of individuals, where the proposed law is still unclear. This mantra, which you say that whoever has more, even more to pay, in the event of your so-called health reform is a mere floscule, as only those who create more will pay more. These will simply cease to generate taxes and contributions due to the draconian burden and thus will not be able to generate revenue in public treasury. If this so-called health reform is adopted in Slovenia, who in good judgment will still decide on entrepreneurship? If the entrepreneur fails and loses everything he has invested, no one cares, but if he earns anything, the state takes everything away from him. How many companies will move abroad if this so-called health reform is adopted? How many jobs will this make less? I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u183	Dear Minister of Finance, you have the floor. Mag. Matthew Vranick Erman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u184	When we talk about entrepreneurs, we are talking about natural persons who are engaged and we can argue that, in terms of compulsory health insurance contributions, the proposed new legislation does not change the burden. The level of contributions remains the same as in the current legislation. If we are talking about the amount of the health compensation, then we need to find that, insofar as an individual has only the income from carrying out an activity that is then taken into account in determining the amount of the health compensation, and given that 70% of such taxpayers pay income from the minimum insurance base, which is now 60% of the average wage, means that they will pay less by health compensation than they pay today for supplementary health insurance. However, as regards the possible introduction of a contribution to passive income, it is income of a completely different kind and it is not income achieved by an entrepreneur in relation to the performance of his business. This part of the law is a real novelty that has been put into public consultation and the final decision will be taken after the public hearing has been concluded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u185	Mr. Marian Pojbich, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u186	Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u187	Be my guest if you'd like to appoint a secretary, or we can give it to her. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u188	I can do it without a problem. I'll do it later. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u189	Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u190	As colleague Mateja has already said, in fact, in terms of contributions, even for independent entrepreneurs, nothing changes with the proposed Health and Insurance Act. In fact, only a peonotic system where two or three rates are proposed at eleven levels, one in particular for pensioners, will not be paid by pensioners at that rate, but will, as already today, pay the last one for the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance or Transfer from the Budget. The contribution for injury at work and occupational disease of 0.53% shall also be maintained. Thus, there is no increase in the employer’s or employee’s contribution to this work, as you claim, to the individual’s own entrepreneurship. However, what I would like to add is that, with the proposed changes, we want to raise more in a solidarity manner, given the income capacity of the insurance companies today, by paying the same amount of the premium, it is said that the regressive amount, which means that the pensioner who has 400, 500 euros of pension is actually paying the same amount, as is the employee who has five times or seven times the average gross salary if you want, is also about 11,000 gross. It must be said that this collection of contributions is solidarity, in a way that is paid according to the financial capacity for health services that we will need sooner or later. If not as young as you, then when we're older, because we're gonna need medical care. Let me also mention that in European countries there are very different bases as well as types of revenue for the creation and payment of health services, from some countries where, say, they have a special tax on the profits of certain pharmaceutical companies and so-called annual contributions to various other incomes. Thus, Slovenia is not a special exception in these cases.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u191	Mr. Marijan Pojbič, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u192	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Minister, I have read in the media that Minister Milojka has pointed out to the professional and other public that this health reform is more tax-like than health reform, you answer that those who do not understand or have not read the law are saying this; that this is the thought expressed by employers in the Economic and Social Council and that the bill does not increase the burden and duties of employers. I'm asking you, who are the employers? However, employers are entrepreneurs and espouses, and in particular they will increase the burden of new capital income contributions. That hidden contributions from the law, such as that the contribution of the employer for injuries at work and occupational diseases should be raised if the Institute for Health Insurance is running out of money, I do not mention at all. You're the ones who don't understand or don't want to understand and, to put it mildly, you're deceiving. I ask the Minister of Finance: Does this crumb of tax reform support this? And: Will it be responsible for its consequences, which will mainly be reflected in the reduction of entrepreneurship, the escape of enterprises abroad, the concealment of capital and the like, which will, of course, reduce revenue into public treasury? Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u193	Minister of Finance, mag. Matthew Vrančnik Erman, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u194	The bill or draft law, as submitted for public consideration, was coordinated with the Ministry of Finance. We have expressed our only reservations or concerns about contributions to passive incomes, where I have already said that the final decision on this will be taken after the public hearing has been concluded. Once again, it is necessary to strictly distinguish between active income from the activities achieved by entrepreneurs or independent entrepreneurs and passive incomes that are something else altogether. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u195	Minister [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u196	Mr Pojibič, I will really repeat it again, because those who say that we are making contributions to injuries at work do not know whether they have read or not they understand this article. Because this contribution remains 0.53, as it is now. Or else, he will gather separately, and separately, he will monitor in the health department why and how it is used. That's all. Look, to health services, of course, we are all entitled to rights. However, when more needs to be added to health care, even in the light of the past, that individual stakeholders, if we say so, have chosen a better or more favourable position, then of course we begin to talk about how someone will be burdened. The question of the right would be whether, according to our income today, we all make enough solidarity, given that we all have the same health care rights.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u197	Mr. Marijan Pojbič, you have the floor to request [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u198	Mr Vice-President, I simply cannot believe that both ministers are trying to mislead the Slovenian people. I have made it very clear what I am talking about, and the Ministers are trying to inform the Slovenian people that, practically, what I have asked with the question would not be understood by the essence. See, if the entrepreneur in the company comes after one year of 1,000 euros in profits, pays for this profit, which is shown, 19 percent and then pays 25 percent if the profit is paid, and under the new legislation proposed, he will now pay another 6.36 percent. This is written in the new legislation and don't tell me about some passive and active stories. In any case, who is the one who creates it? The one who makes a profit too! And every entrepreneur has this interest to make a profit, of course, because that's his key story. Civil servants and public servants don't have to deal with it. You just don't care if an entrepreneur creates and operates a high-quality company or not. You don't care. When the month goes around, you get your salary and you don't deal with whether he can pay the workers' wages, or if he can cover all the contributions, whatever it takes to get to the country, and if there's anything left for him. To talk about solidarity today in such a way that you are destroying the economy — please, what kind of country are we living in? Over this government sitting here today, and the coalition, I must say that I am very disappointed. You know, we all know that we're sitting here, that we can only get money from those who create, and not from those companies that are in debt to the end and fail because they got credit on the political path, but from those who do good work and eventually have some profits. So, they need to get a complete profit! The more they work, the more they work, the more they have to be destroyed! What country and what solidarity is this? Please, look, you can only say this to someone who has no idea. Not to me! And you can't tell any Slovenian man about it, but at least to entrepreneurs and craftsmen. What I said was a fact, and it's clear. However, I hope that there will be changes in this area before these matters can be reconciled. In the interests of the Slovenian economy and of those who survive all of us who sit here. I hope one day you'll understand the essence of this story. That we are not the ones who create, but are the ones on some other level, and this is the real economy. But apparently bureaucrats, those who have spent your entire life in public service, have never heard what a small economy is. I was an entrepreneur myself, and I know what this is all about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u199	You demand a debate, Mr. Pojbich? [[No, no, ……]] Mr Benedict Kopmajer will ask the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Peter Gasperšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u200	Thank you, Mr. Vice President! Dear Minister, especially the Minister of Infrastructure! Why are the questions raised by the Korean Members about the beginning of the construction of the northern leg of the third development axis? Because the Koros are historically known as persistent and stubborn, and we cannot just get rid of ourselves and we will be asking questions all the time. Above all, because there are two statements by the main actors of the third development axis project, here I am thinking mainly of the representative of Dars. You need to know that Korosci's third development axis is not only understood as a project for Korosce, but also, in particular, as a development priority to ensure a higher standard throughout Slovenia. So today, some specific questions are: Will a four-lane be built by the Word of the City? Is it true that the fast road will begin to build in the lower part — what does this mean, I do not understand — and not in the whole section from Slovenj Gradac to Šentrupert? This raises the question: When is the construction of the section from Slovenj Gradc to Šentrupert? How is the financial design of the project ensured? What are the investors' intentions of building local connecting roads on the third development axis? I thank you for your specific answers. Koroška listens to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u201	Dr. Peter Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u202	Thank you, President, for your word! Thank you, too, honourable Member, Mr Benedict Kopmajer, for the question raised. I know that Koroška is listening and you know for yourself that I have answered questions like these several times to Koroška, and I do not think it is necessary to lose words about how the Government has recognised the importance of building the third development axis in both the north and the south for the development and existence of these regions, which are still remote or not so well connected to the highway network and therefore cannot exploit their full development potential. As it is said, the Government acknowledged this necessity to build these links and accordingly led all these activities to move from the dead point where, this has to be acknowledged, quite a few previous years. I will try to answer your specific questions as quickly as possible. We know that up to Slovenj Gradac there is a four-way connection, and as such it will also be built in the final stage. However, Dars is about the construction phase itself, whether a four-lane is built immediately or maybe only a half profile at the beginning, and then two more belts will be added when the traffic increases. In short, in order to support this decision, Dars has already commissioned two studies in the past, namely a phase and stage study on this section from Velenje to Slovenj Gradac and a study of the wider economic effects of the investment itself. At the Ministry we expect Dars to present to us in a short time this month the findings, the joint findings of both studies, on the basis of which they will then propose the optimal solution. On this basis – this will then be the basis for carrying out all further activities from project design to land acquisition. However, in all these stages and in all these plans, we will also work together with the coordination committee in which the mayors participate, and I also think that one meeting is scheduled for this week, at which Darss will present these matters in a little more detail in an operational manner. As regards the very order of construction, the Ministry of Infrastructure has always advocated that the first section to Velenje and this second section to Slovenj Gradac should be considered together, at the same time, since the implementation of this second section only in terms of transport only partially solves Koroška's connection to the A1 motorway. On the other hand, it has a very negative impact on traffic in the Velenje area itself, because then things should be intertwined across Velenje and we expect Dars to follow this position. As stated below, all these activities will be carried out simultaneously: design, land acquisition throughout the whole section, the very plans for the phase of the start of construction, how the stages will go, where they will start to be built and so on, and this will be further elaborated and presented accordingly by Dars. As far as the financial structure is concerned, the funds for the design and purchase of land are provided for in compensation for the building right paid to the State by Dars, and the funds are also provided for in the design of the concession contract for 2017. Various resources will be combined for construction – I am talking about construction – and in addition to Darsa's own resources, loans and, of course, European funds will also be combined. At the Ministry of Finance and Dars, together with the Ministry of Finance, we are also actively preparing an appropriate solution for the issue of the guarantee for the envisaged loans, and as I am informed, some responses have already been made today, so that the activities will follow quickly in this regard too. As for the start of construction, I can say that we are leading all activities in this direction so that by the end of 2018 we have [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u203	Mr. Benedict Kopmayer, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u204	Only now would I ask that we allow the Minister to answer the 5th question in this regard: What are the investors' intentions of building local connecting roads on this third development axis? He hasn't been able to answer that yet, so please, in these minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u205	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u206	Thank you very much. With regard to connecting roads, I hope I have understood what you wanted to ask. Indeed, all the connecting roads provided for in the State Spatial Plan are adequately covered there and will also, of course, have to be carried out by an investor, that is, Dars. All other roads that will, for example, be used at the time of construction for transport, construction transport, including for these roads, shall be recorded before the start of such consumption, assessed their condition and, after the end of use, assessed how many of these injuries have occurred, and these injuries shall then be remedied after completion of the construction. This has been done on all projects so far and will be done here. So that some fear that some roads would then remain unscanned and destroyed is not. As it is said, the newly built connecting roads are already foreseen and are also coordinated in the placement processes themselves with the local community and will also be implemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u207	Mr Miha Kordiš will ask the Minister of the Environment and the premises of Mrs Irena Majcen, who I hope will join us, if not, but you will probably get a written reply or request answers at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u208	Thank you very much. My question concerns discrimination against single-parent families with one child in the transfer of non-profit housing. What's this all about? Article 87 of the Housing Code defines the surrender of these non-profit dwellings and in paragraph 6 of the Housing Code provides that certain categories of applicants have priority in this allocation – for example, families with multiple children, families with fewer employees and so on. The Ministry of Justice shall be responsible for the reception and implementation of the Regulation on the allocation of non-profit dwellings for rent as an act carried out under the Housing Code. All these categories are listed again and are not specified in more detail. Where's the kneel? Here I have the last invitation and application for an invitation to tender for the Public Housing Fund of the Municipality of Ljubljana and for the Municipality of Ljubljana, a family with fewer employees of a three-member family in which only one or no member of the household is employed. Single - parent families with one child thus fall out of this criterion. While it is true that when applying to the above-mentioned invitation to tender for the Municipality of Ljubljana, parents get additional points for single parents with one child in another category, but only get 40 points, while the tri-member family with a smaller number of employees gets 60 points. In doing so, the situation of single - parent unemployed parents is much more difficult than that of a three - member family in which at least one parent has a job. Of course, everything has to be taken care of, but with this question in the House, I refer to this particular problem and which I think is actually discriminatory towards single parent families. Here I am interested, the question for the Minister is: Have such discriminatory practices been detected by the Ministry itself? How do they intend to act to ensure that this, discrimination, will no longer occur in the allocation of non-profit housing in the future? In fact, I do not think that there is any maligned political account behind here, that it is simply some bureaucratic blindness that has once occurred somewhere, but is now reproduced and repeated in every single invitation to tender for the award of public non-profit apartments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u209	The Minister for Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u210	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members and Members! Dear Member Miha Kordish, it almost turned out to be the same as at the previous meeting, but I admit that my journey was only during my arrival in the room where the answer and the question were addressed – I turned to the toilet. It is true, however, that the question addressed to me concerns the Regulation on the allocation of non-profit dwellings for rent, which lays down the general conditions to be met by applicants, namely that they are entitled to the allocation of non-profit housing, criteria and criteria for the assessment of housing and social conditions, the criteria for the possible payment of their own participation and the security for the use of the apartment and the possible debtors thereof, the surface standards for the allocation of non-profit dwellings and the directions for their use, and the procedure for the award of such apartments. In the resolution of applications for non-profit housing, families with multiple children, families with fewer employees, young and young families, disabled persons and families with disabilities, long-term nationals who are homeless or renters, victims of domestic violence, persons with the status of victim of war violence, and applicants who, according to the profession or activity they carry out, are of particular importance to the congregation, which must be specified in the invitation to tender. Lenders, usually municipalities, in an individual invitation to tender for the award of non-profit dwellings, shall specify in particular the priority category or priority categories of applicants, and may, in their opinion, include other priority categories of applicants, which they shall in particular justify in the invitation to tender. The lessors shall, in an individual invitation to tender for the award of non-profit dwellings, explicitly determine which group of applicants has the advantage of granting a non-profit apartment if one or more applicants reaches the same number of points in relation to the assessment of the housing and social conditions set out in the form. The model for assessing these housing and social conditions and for assessing the priority categories of applicants annexed to the Regulation as one of the priority categories of applicants shall also indicate the category of family with fewer employees, taking into account the category when it comes to a family of at least three members who are employed by only one family member or if none of the family members is employed. In doing so, I would like to say that the regulation in the social situation section prescribes an additional number of points for a parent living alone, i.e. for a single parent family with one child, and in this regard, single parent families with one child are automatically entitled to a higher number of points when they point out the status of a non-profit apartment, and in our opinion they are not discriminated against in relation to the category of a family with a smaller number of employees. So much for the answer. It is true, however, that on the basis of our programme, where it is of course stipulated to prepare a new law and these and similar things will be resolved slightly differently, which means that applicants for non-profit housing would have received it sooner than the practice so far in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u211	Miha Kordish, you have the floor to request a response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u212	Thank you for your word. If the applicants get their apartments sooner, I'll be in the same place where I'm sitting or standing right now, but I'll make it clear that this is a very good thing and I'll congratulate you. Otherwise, the matter on which I ask is the matter of the tenderer, in this particular case of the Municipality of Ljubljana, and another municipality would find itself, and above that the Regulation on the Assignment of Non-profit Apartments for Rent does not have to be amended to correct the problem which I am addressing here, because I actually think and hope that the purpose of the preparers and assessors of the call is not discrimination against single-parent families with one child. As I said before, it is likely that a purely bureaucratic practice has been established somewhere and has gone after some inertia. Even more so, because the doctrine itself that emerges will be quoted as "at least three-member and only one or no member of the household is employed", the end of the quote actually means that a single mother with two children, who falls into the category of a three-member family, gets these additional 60 points in the invitation to tender. I don't think we're dealing with any preconceptions about single parent families here. We know how much more conservative our society has been in the past, the prejudices were mainly towards single women with extramarital children and so on. However, the invitation to tender states that a family of at least three members, of whom only one family member is employed or none of the family members is employed, will be assigned points by a skilled and professional bureaucrat to assign to a family with two members of these additional points, even though this point would not be the case. Parents of single-child single-parent single-parent single-parent single-parent single-parent single-parent single-parent single-parent single-parent single-parent single-parent single-parent single-parent single-parent single-parent single-parent single-parent single-parent single-parent single-parent single-parent single-parent single-parent single-parent single-parent single-parent single-parent single-parent single-parent single-child single-parent single-parent [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u213	Mr Kordish, since the Minister has already replied, I ask you whether you would like a discussion to take place on this subject? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik will ask the minister of finance mags a question. Matei Vranictor Erman. Mr. Pogačnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u214	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister! I would like to ask you a question regarding the recapitalisation of the Slovenian State holding company. At the end of last year, the government decided to recapitalise the Slovenian State Holding at EUR 200 million. I am particularly interested in the reasons: Why did you decide that? When did the management of the Slovenian State Holding Board notify the Government or the Ministry of Finance of this recapitalisation, if necessary? What does it mean to go on? How long will the Slovenian State Holding have this money? For as has been known so far from publicly available data and, of course, from the part of your statement on the reasons for the recapitalisation itself, this is because the Slovenian state holding company does not sell its assets. I am interested in the fact that there is no change in the strategy: What does this mean for the future of the Slovenian state holding company? In your opinion, how long will this financial injection be sufficient to enable the Slovenian State Holding to pay its legal obligations and to be capital-appropriate?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u215	Dear Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u216	Thank you very much for the word and thank you very much for asking the question. You will recall that the Slovenian State Holding took over the powers, tasks and obligations of the former Slovenian Compensation Society or its predecessor, the Slovenian Compensation Fund, at its inception. In accordance with the legislation governing the question of denationalisation, the predecessor of the SDH Court was in charge of paying the denationalisation obligations of the beneficiaries. For this purpose, in order to enable the Court to settle its obligations, the State transferred certain assets or certain capital investments to the Court of Justice, but in subsequent developments the State identified the same investment as important or strategic, thereby preventing the availability of these investments and the acquisition of denationalisation liabilities. In order to be able to settle these obligations, the Court accepted or leased loans or issued bonds, and SDH also assumed a total of EUR 766 million at the time of the conversion or takeover of the obligation. During the period until 9 December last year, these obligations arising from denationalisation obligations decreased to 387 million. In the coming year it will be paid for 280 million commitments made, and at the end of last year it was necessary to explore different options to ensure that SDH can repay those commitments. Let him mention that all these obligations are concluded by a State guarantee under a special guarantee law. We have examined various options, one of the possible options was the adoption of a new guarantee law whereby 200 million SDH loans due in 2017 could be refinanced for a longer period of time. The second possible option was the recapitalisation of SDH of EUR 200 million, with the remaining liabilities of EUR 80 million being able to provide for the payment or refinancing of SDH without State guarantee. This second option has been assessed as more appropriate, on the one hand, because, in view of the requirements for reducing public debt in the sector, the State as a whole is essentially following this objective as well, further, in terms of the fiscal consolidation and the limitation of the scope of potential guarantees obligations, a more appropriate approach to settlement of these liabilities. Finally, there is no or any change or option for SDH to sell off its investments, and it would be necessary to amend the Capital Investment Management Strategy, which we have estimated cannot be expected for a short period of time. In accordance with that and in accordance with the decision of the Government, the funds provided for the recapitalisation may be used exclusively for the payment of the company’s financial obligations under existing loans secured by the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia. In parallel, the Ministry was ordered to prepare a proposal for a legislative arrangement for the restructuring of SDH, which we intend to prepare or implement during this year, as the large majority or the bulk of the denationalisation obligation of SDH is settled, so there is no longer a reason for ownership [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u217	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Mag. Marko Pogačnik, you have the floor to request a reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u218	Mr President, thank you for the floor. On the one hand, I'd say it's not surprising, since the distinguished Minister, let's only remember those sessions when the strategy for the management of state property was adopted. At that time, the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia pointed out that the current strategy would not allow for the payment of current liabilities. That's what they said back then, leadership. That it will not allow a strategy to settle current obligations. Because with the strategy you are, in fact, the basic mission inherited by SDH by the Slovenian Compensation Society is to settle the liabilities with capital investments transferred to the Court or to SDH at that time. If the strategy doesn't change, I want to know: What are the other legal obligations of the Slovenian State Holding Group this year? How much more is the liability for the payment of the loan? I'm surprised you don't find money for health care, you don't find money for education, you don't find money for pensioners, and here you give 200 million for the recapitalisation of the Slovenian state holding company, which sits on a certain property. I want to know: Why is such a government strategy to recapitalise effectively with fresh SDH money and, on the other hand, SDH is sitting on a property that could be resold to settle its obligations, which was also a basic mission and a basic purpose?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u219	The Minister of Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u220	As far as SDH's assets are concerned, I have already mentioned that we are preparing a proposal for a change, as far as this is concerned. As far as sales are concerned, this is not assets transferred to SDH in 2014, 2015 or 2016, but is assets transferred to SDH in the past. If it was an interest in selling, it could have been sold a long time ago. Therefore, you cannot accuse the current government of impeding compliance with these financial obligations. As far as the remaining liabilities are concerned, I mentioned that on day 9. The total debt amounted to 387 million. 280 million will be settled or otherwise refinanced in 2017; 200 million settled, 80 million with SDH resources, will remain good 100 million to fall in the coming years, and the denationalisation commitments of SDH will be settled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u221	Mag. Marko Pogačnik, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u222	Mr President, thank you for the floor. In view of this last part of the reply, even if I had no intention, I will, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, request that a public debate be held. For indeed you are deceiving or deceiving the public, your esteemed minister. Your government has adopted a strategy that prevents sales. Before this strategy, there was no one and it was an open matter. With the strategy adopted by this coalition, this government in this House, however, you have in fact closed down the possibilities for an ongoing settlement of the obligations that the Slovenian State Holding has. And here, please, don't swindle. All that property that has been transferred since then is precisely this strategy that this coalition and this government have adopted has now been disabled. Now you, the Government or the Republic of Slovenia must recapitalise SDH, but it sits on its property, which it cannot sell. I am convinced that from the entire portfolio, a lot of things could be sold out and that it would not be necessary to recapitalise the Slovenian state holding company of EUR 200 million and that this money could be spent elsewhere, for example, on education, or on pensions, or on health care. But no, you decided to stop the privatisation at 100 percent. Above all, it pains the fact that the former management or previous management of the Slovenian State Holding Board in adopting this strategy has warned the Government that this strategy prevents the current settlement of their obligations. As I know, the last SOS2E coupon was paid, I don't know, December 2016 and it would really be right in the public debate then to hear interestingly: What are all these obligations that are still following, or how much more, of these loans? Because, with this strategy now in force, I fear that, given the obligations that will follow, there will probably be a need for further recapitalisation. You didn't answer that question. All you replied was that a restructuring was under way. In what sense is restructuring? I'm sorry, but you didn't answer, Your Honor Minister: Is it business, is it financial, or is it organizational? You didn't tell me what that meant. And your government is responsible. For your government has adopted such a strategy that prevents the Slovenian state holding company from settling its obligations. This is why the Republic of Slovenia has to recapitalise it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u223	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Mr Simon Zajc will raise the question of the question of the Minister of Health, Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u224	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary! A while ago in the National Assembly of the Health Committee, on the basis of an enormous opinion of both the public and the medical profession, we instructed your Ministry to prepare all the legal basis for the use of hemp in Slovenia for medical purposes. This is because those patients who need hemp for treatment or need it to improve their quality of life, to allow these patients to enjoy hemp under the supervision of doctors; therefore, to get hemp, which is impeccable, to get hemp, that we know of, what the relationship between cannabinoids is, that is, CBD and THC, in particular, to reach cannabis and its preparations in a legal way. That is why I have two specific questions. First of all, I want to know: When will you amend the Regulation on the classification of illicit drugs by withdrawing the hemp from the first group so that we can use hemp for medical purposes? And second of all, I'm interested in: When can we expect all the legal basis? Thus, changes in legislation to those sub-laws and regulations will allow us to produce and process cannabis in Slovenia for medical purposes; so that we will catch this train in this area, so that we will be among the first and not the last.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u225	Ms Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister of Health, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u226	Thank you for your word. Hello Members and Members of Parliament, colleague, ministers, minister, everyone else! Mr Simon Zajc asked two very short questions. The answer may also be very short, but allow me perhaps a little more for the others. The Regulation – the answer to the first question you have asked about the Regulation on the Classification of illicit drugs – is in the final stage of inter-sectoral coordination. One of the key purposes, as you correctly note, is to propose amendments and supplement the Regulation on the Classification of Prohibited Drugs in Slovenia, to allow medical use of standardised flower or fertile hemp plant tips from which the resin has not been printed. To this end, we classify the whole hemp plant in the Regulation as a second group of this Regulation on the classification of illicit drugs. In this way, in Slovenia, for medical purposes, it will be possible to obtain plants or substances from the hemp tips in addition to the allowed synthetic and natural extracts from cannabis. Similarly, a wide range of active substances based on cannabis, which can be used in medicine, are only available in some countries of the European Union, that is right to say. These are the Netherlands, the Czech Republic, Italy and Germany, and it should be pointed out that nowhere in the European Union is the whole plant of hemp used medically, but only the standardised flower or fertile surfaces of this plant. After the regulation has been implemented, doctors will also be able to prescribe these products according to the professional guidelines on prescription, so that patients will of course have a very known THC content. At the same time, in order to actually prescribe these prescriptions, it will be necessary, in accordance with the Medicinal Products Act and the Pharmaceuticals Act, to develop further standards that will have to be followed by the tip that doctors will want to prescribe to patients with a prescription, so that they know very clearly what THC content is. This Regulation, I believe, given that the Interdepartmental Treatment is in the final stage, that it will soon go to the Government and thus be published in the Official Journal. Now the answer to another question related to the fulfilment of the conclusions of the Committee on Health of the National Assembly, which instructed the Ministry of Health to prepare legal grounds for the cultivation of cannabis for medical purposes in Slovenia. It must be said, however, that we are bound here by UN conventions and that we must therefore amend the Law on the Production and Trafficking of illicit drugs. The Single Convention on Drugs of 1961 allows cannabis cultivation in the 28th Member States, which must be controlled as strictly as is the case with opium poppy cultivation. It follows from this that legislative changes should establish and finance one or more national authorities competent to carry out supervisory tasks on the cultivation of hemp and the performance of all other tasks set out in that Convention by the United Nations organizations. The preparation of the amendments will, of course, require the participation of different departments and professions and, of course, a working group will be appointed for these purposes, which will prepare the starting point of work as well as the work and round tables on the subject of amending this legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u227	Simon Zajc, you have the floor to request a response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u228	I am pleased that the regulation will finally give effect to this decision, which we have adopted on the Committee. I think it's about time. Maybe a brief comment, just to make it clear about the conventions we're committed to. These conventions say, yes, you have to establish organs if you don't have them yet. And we, I think we already have them, and they're just going to have to extend these powers. I think that this public debate can be quite quick and fruitful, given that we already have a very well-prepared system for that, and as the Czech Republic will soon be Germany, we ourselves are starting to grow hemp and we are also growing it for the other countries that will follow this trend, which is happening both in Europe and in the wider world. Thank you for your answer, but I do not expect any further clarification, but I am now a little more optimistic than I was recently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u229	Madam Secretary, would you like a word? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on. Dr Vinko Gorenak will ask a question from the Member States, namely, the Secretary-General of Mags. Liljani Kozlovich and Minister of Defence Andreja Katič. Mr. Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u230	Thank you very much. From such friendly questions, of course, to less friendly ones. I have a problem at all, because now two ladies are responsible for the sins of their boss. And I believe that's hard. Look, on January 28th, the Prime Minister of the Government went to Falcone. He took with him the Minister of Education and six pianists. They went on a trip to Paris. That's where they saw the handball game. Only action is a positive thing, only there should we travel to the expense of our wages. In short, on my own account, not at the expense of the state. That's why I asked you in the question of the House, I think, a series of questions, 11 of them that you won't be able to answer; I'm aware of that. I ask in particular for answers to the seventh, eighth, ninth and tenth questions. I'll ask for everything else if you answer me in writing, because I believe you won't be able to. However, something needs to be said to the public: Where does the President of the Government have the right to use the Falcon State Plane, to drive for private purposes to Paris, to be there for a handball game and to drive back? However, if the President of the Government has this option – let's say he has it – you will explain it to me through the legal regulations of the Government, for which I will also ask information of a public nature – I must tell you in advance, then I do not know: How can you excuse the fact that there are five pirates and a photographer? This is, ladies and gentlemen, a trip. This is a crime of abuse of the position of President of the Government of Mr Cerar. And nothing else. In comparison, let me remind you of 2012. In 2012, the then Prime Minister Janša travelled to Greece on private leave, as you know. He traveled on a regular basis. Because the child was sick there, he returned with a private plane, which he paid for. Let the Slovenian public, the press, the editors and anyone else, say they're hypocrites. Why? For a basic reason, because they were then shouting and screaming and looking for reasons why Mr Janša paid 9,000 euros and why we could not possibly pay 15 000 euros for the trip back. Today, when we talk about Mr. Cerar, all the media, at least the left, are quiet. No one has ever published this news. So, I expect you to at least answer the seventh, eighth, ninth and tenth questions, to the others, I believe that it will not work, perhaps in the following or in writing.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u231	First gets the word of Secretary General of the Government, mag. Lilliana Kozlovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u232	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. All in attendance, all in attendance! With regard to your question, I will answer what is still under the authority of the General Secretariat of the Government, given that the authority of the administration of the Falcon has been transferred to the Ministry of Defence. So, the Prime Minister wasn't on a trip, but he was in line with the government's decision, which was adopted by 25. Seven. 2016, on a working visit abroad. He participated on the basis of the invitation of the Handball Association of the Republic of Slovenia handball matches in Paris. So, he was President of the Government and not on a private visit, and he does not hold that he was only a journalist with him, he was also an economic advisor in his cabinet and also an advisor – but of course, the others were from the public relations field, and they were representatives of the Ministry of Education. However, the Minister of Defence will answer the other questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u233	I give the floor to the Minister of Defence, Mrs Andreja Katič. Here you go. Madam Secretary, thank you. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u234	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Member, colleagues and colleagues, all the others present! With regard to the use of falcon, it could first be explained that, in November 2012, the falcon aircraft was transferred to the management of the Ministry of Defence for the purpose of marketing in the Atares system, the implementation of transport VIPs on the basis of bilateral agreements with the Member States of NATO and the EU, and for the purposes of transporting state authorities. The aircraft was also entered in the register of military aircraft on the basis of this Decision. From June 2013 to today, it has been shown that there is no significant interest in the use of the Atares and NATO and EU aircraft, so that the aircraft is used from the outset mainly for transport for the purposes of state authorities, and the Ministry has also concluded a special transport contract for the purposes of Slovenia-transplant. The beneficiaries of the use of the aircraft for the purposes of the State authorities were designated by the Government by Decision 11. Seven. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The beneficiaries of the use of the aircraft for the purpose of carrying out protocol transport for official and working visits abroad are, by that decision, the President of the Republic of Slovenia, the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the President of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia, the President of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia and the members of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Falcone aircraft may also be used for other transports for the purposes of the public authorities, provided that this ensures a better use of the aircraft in the implementation of protocol matters. The procedures for ordering, authorising and carrying out operations are laid down in the 2013 internal act of the Ministry of Defence, in the instruction on carriage by aircraft of falcon of 11. Seven. 2013 Of course, separate from these cases, the aircraft can also be used as a military aircraft for the purposes of the Slovenian Army, and this is also specified in more detail by an internal act. If we look at statistics for the transport of public authorities from the start of use, there have been 238 combined transport operations, 2014-24, 2014-31, 2015-64, 2016-104 and 2017 currently 18. The Ministry of Defence has all the information on all the persons who have been brought in, but we can provide this in writing, and today it does not allow this time. As far as the contracting authority is concerned, transport day 28. 1. As stated by the Secretary of State, the contracting authority was the Cabinet of the President of the Government, the Ministry of Defence acting as the transport operator. In addition to these three crew members, there were 10 passengers on board, namely the President of the Government, the Minister of Education, three passengers from the President's Cabinet, one passenger from the Communications Office, two passengers from the Ministry of Education and, of course, two guards. The aircraft flew on the route Ljubljana–Paris, Paris–Ljubljana. In France, it landed at Le Bourget Airport. The flight costs are not yet fully known because we have not received all the accounts yet. According to the data now known, there are 6 000 588,19 euros, including the cost of a three-member crew. The costs will be settled from the funds specifically provided by the Slovenian Army in 2017 to carry out 400 hours of transport by plane of falcon for the purposes of the state authorities. As regards the pricelist for Falcone, this is determined in accordance with the budget implementation rules, the price per hour of the year is EUR 4 000 221. It covers material costs of €2 000 697 and depreciation of €573 and labour costs of €951.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u235	Vinko Gorenak, you have the floor to request a response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u236	Well, we're aware I've asked too many questions to be answered both. [[…]] But look, something's not going on here. If the flight time is 4 000 221 euros, then they cannot be the total cost of 6 000 588 for a fundamental reason, because it is not exactly an hour and 10 minutes back to Paris, but it is much more. But well, I allow the possibility that these numbers will be even more accurate. But look, you specifically said, Secretary of Defense, that this is primarily about all the functions you listed. The lowest function, of course, is the minister. What did eight employees do — counting down the guards, and there are six other employees? What were they doing on the plane? Why did they drive to Paris? Why didn't you invite me? But you know how to cheer nicely. Can you imagine? No, no, that's not how it works! I'll tell you in advance that I'm going to drill and drill into this darkness while I'm on this bench, because I'm aware that the Prime Minister has abused the position. I'll go to a criminal charge, that's all I'm telling you. For a basic reason, because it just can't happen. If the Prime Minister invited the handball committee or anyone else, you said, well, let's get the wallet out, let him pay and let him go. I don't mind. I will never say that he is not entitled to security; you must be paid by the state wherever he goes. But he can't take a trip to state expense, and he can't take six people with him, his people who have employees to trust, so to speak. Look, this isn't working out. I ask you for detailed answers to all questions, all six questions. What bothers me in particular is that the total cost of EUR 6 000 500 and 4 000 200 is one hour because it doesn't work together. I'm particularly interested in: What were the other members doing on the plane? If you can say anything now at this time, please, otherwise absolutely, absolutely also according to information of a public nature, all information and all documents will have to be delivered.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u237	The word is given by the Secretary-General of the Government of Mags. Lilliana Kozlovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u238	Thank you. As I have pointed out in the introduction, I reiterate that this is a work visit abroad by the President of the Government and, of course, in accordance with the decision adopted, the members of the Government are entitled to such a flight and are also staff with the President of the Government. Not only security guards, but also cabinet members, regardless of the form of employment. This is not specific in the Act, so it is the members of the Government. The Minister of Education is also a member of the Government and therefore went on a work visit to Paris, as I said before, to the invitation of the Handball Association of the Republic of Slovenia. If this was not a trip, we can also say that the French authorities also provided them with a security escort to the delegation as an official escort. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u239	Dr. Vinko Gorenak, would you like a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u240	Thank you very much. Look, the general sphere, you're getting involved. When I went to Italy during my vacation and my ministry, I was guarded by the Italian police. This is a perfectly normal procedure, and the Prime Minister is also kept abroad. It's a normal story, and they've got two guards with them. But you won't convince me, you'll never convince me that he can take his penmen and photographers with him, and I don't know who else. In addition, this is not an official visit. What an official visit is, we all know. We all know what an official visit is. We all know that. This isn't an official visit. This is a response to an invitation, as you would have invited him, I don't know, a mountain committee, as you would have invited him, say, the Golden Fox or anyone else who would have invited all of us. That's what this is about. So this isn't an official visit. The official visit concerns a foreign country. No foreign president, no French official has accepted him. He went there, there he was at a handball game, which I don't disagree that the public will know that we're in the clear. If the president of the government is going to encourage our athletes, that's fine. But let's make it all about our money. But you can't take six people with you. It's not working! By what rule? However, if such a rule is adopted, it is contrary to a number of rules in this country. And that can't happen. What I am reading and what I am also asking for in the National Assembly is, above all, a relation to this issue. Why was the attitude of this Parliament, this public or these media not the same in 2012? They were doing something completely different. They lied about how Janez Janša’s children were taken from the airport of Brnik under my, I don’t know, tactiff — by the way, I was on vacation in Italy that day — to a clinic in Salzburg. That's what they lied about. Look, these are double criteria that I do not agree with and that I will never accept – the President, I ask for a debate and a vote tomorrow, i.e. the Vice-President of the National Assembly – and this case goes on. I'll tell you in advance. I will never finish it until the truth arrives on the day and, of course, until I'm in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u241	Dr. Vinko Gorenak, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Mr Jan Mahnic will ask the Foreign Minister a question, Mr Karl Erjavac, which is excusedly absent today. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u242	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Not only today, the majority minister, at least when we ask questions from Members of Parliament, is not. Dear ministers and ministers, colleagues and colleagues! The government of Alenka Bratušek and the Government of Mir Cerar is a common foreign policy that can be defined as pro-Russian – or if we are indeed going to the evaluation – friendly to the government, at least to say that it is leading the policy of the undeclared, and the main protagonist in this area is, of course, Foreign Minister Karl Erjavec. I wanted to ask him, given that visits were made by our representatives of our country, the President of the State, ministers in Moscow, and I wanted to ask the Minister: How is the relationship between Slovenia and the United States of America? We know that the last state visit by any Slovenian in the United States was to visit Janez Janša when she was first Prime Minister of the Government. No one was invited after him. Mr Vice-President, you are nodding, but when Mr Borut Pahor as President of the Government was with Mr Biden, this was not a state visit. In short, we know what happened at the time, especially that we see ourselves as such and that the United States of America sees us as the most pro-Russian state of NATO and also of the European Union, to thank Borut Pahor. When he was Prime Minister, he made a promise; he promised that we would receive two prisoners from Guantanamo. Of course, he did not do this, and that was why our relationship floated through the water. Since then, the United States has taken us seriously, and so I can speak mainly for the former Obama administration. In view of the statements made by some prominent members of the Government, including the presidents of coalition parties, not least the Slovenian media at the expense of Republicans, at Donald Trump's expense and generally, what is Slovenia's attitude and the Slovenian public opinion towards the United States, it is not expected that this matter will be improved, at least not as long as the government is politically profiled as it has improved. Countries are ahead of us; economic change and trade with the United States of America are unfortunately not growing as it should. The countries of the Visegrajska Group are ahead of us, Austria is ahead of us. This is the price we pay for our prosperity. I wanted to ask the minister the question: How does he intend to improve relations with the United States of America? For the i-point, we've seen what the media have been writing, and now you want Mr. Vidovic, Secretary General at the MZZ, to send for our ambassador. This is gonna be the end of our relationship.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u243	Mr. Jan Mahnic, allow me to ask you, do you want an answer in writing or oral form at the next meeting? An oral response. Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Hanžek will put the question to the Minister for the Environment and Space of Mrs Irena Majcen and to the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food of Magi. Diane Jedhan. Here you go, Mr. Hanzek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u244	Thank you, Vice President. From my response to the 21st meeting of the National Assembly to the parliamentary initiative, I find it disappointing to note that it is a matter of an inadvertent answer by means of skilful evasiveness and knowledge of the content of the questions raised. I reiterate that the way in which the ministries and governments and governments involved work and act repeats in detail the story of the investment in Block 6 of the Šostanj Thermoelectrica. For example: Comparative studies are required from citizens; those who are made are either ignored or made fun of. State strategic documents shall not be taken into account or distorted. Calls for rational treatment of public money for at least half the cheaper investment are ignored. The analyses shall be evaluated arbitrarily and shall be taken into account only on the basis of the like. The priority is given to corporations and capital interests; regardless of the population and users. A negative opinion of the Ministry of Food Safety is being voted out. For baseline evaluations, false and false data shall be taken into account despite warnings. In short, school with TES 6 did not cost us enough. In the media, there is a notary lie that in fact the most urgent construction of the section Velenje–Slovenian Gradec is inevitably linked to the adoption of the VAT Regulation, specifically at Velenje–Sentrupert section; and not, for example, at Velenje–Arja section of the village. The intention is to irreversibly destroy the best agricultural land and prevent the conservation of the geographical protection of Savinja hop. There is a cynical justification for disregarding this argument if it has been presented after the conclusion of the comments. That's why I'm asking you, Madam Minister: Will you accelerate the spatial placement of the Velenje-Slovenian Road Connection route now that the alleged biggest obstacle has been removed, this is the adoption of the VAT Regulation for Velenje’s connection to Kentrupert? In view of the alleged objections to the Regulation in the Constitutional Court and the ordinary courts, it is very likely that the implementation of the VAT in question is very far-reaching. Will you continue to use this fact as an excuse for stopping works and doing to improve Velenj’s connection to Slovenia’s most critical section on the northern part of the third development axis? Mr. Secretary, I ask you: How can you continue to participate in a government producing asphalt and paint sheet on the fields with an illusion that food will always be able to be bought and imported? How do you intend to replace the value of a good brand name with a now geographically protected and export-efficient Savinja hop after the asphalt and vehicle releases destroy the basic conditions for geographical protection? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u245	First, Mrs Irena Majcen, Minister for the Environment and Space, gets the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u246	Thank you, Madam President; Your Honour, honourable Members! Mr Matjaž Hanžek, honourable Member, thank you for the question. I'm not doing a bigger intro. I would like to say that the spatial placement of the road route Velenje–Slovenianj Gradec was completed by adopting the State Spatial Road Plan Regulation from Velenje south to Slovenia Gradec south, which was adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at its meeting 29. 8. 2013 On the second question, however, I must say that today, the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Peter Gasperšič, answered the question of Ambassador Benedict Kopmajer and explained the reasons in detail. The Ministry of Environment and Space has the task of placing spatial arrangements, i.e. by preparing the material then also for the government, i.e. the State Spatial Plans Regulations. However, investments are made in the ministries where these investments belong; so that, unfortunately, I cannot handle the second part of the response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u247	Minister Dejan Židan, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u248	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Member, thank you for asking. In fact, my ministry and I personally opposed this route, because of the six possible routes, the other was the worst. We have also been voted twice in the government, and our negative opinions have not been taken into account. However, I must also say the following, as regards the amount of land that will be lost through the State Spatial Plan, it has been made clear that this is less than 100 hectares of land; but in practice we will lose three hectares of land, as applicable, of hops; 22 hectares of land and 23.6 hectares of grassland. Will this cause us to lose protection, not of Savini, but of Styrian hops? A safeguard procedure is under way in this regard. This process takes place for all land, a thousand 400 and a few hectares, the process is so far away that there is coordination between us and Austria, which made a comment. It appears that we will reach an agreement that this protection will be achieved without the European Commission taking an arbitrary decision. This particular location, which was in opposition to our sector, although I know that they keep telling me that the agricultural interest is only one of many, I am aware, other public interests are; but here the agricultural interest has been over-elected. That there will be no mistake, we have such interests, such arguments that all other interests are more important, all the time full on the table. In most cases, we manage to preserve agricultural land. With regard to the knowledge that natural resources need to be maintained in the long term, and even when they are being built, to build on poor quality, even in the forests, if necessary, I think that, honourable Member, we both know that at this point in Slovenia, it is essential. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u249	Mr. Matjaž Hanžek, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u250	I want to ask you about something I just found out. I'm not going to drill into those things, but Mr. Secretary said that the chosen option is the second worst option. I want to know: Why does the government, not the agriculture ministry, rank the needs from the worst to the best? This is not just a matter of land, it is also a question of water. As we know, the construction of the road in December eliminated three water resources. About a month earlier, we accepted water protection in the Constitution, where three water resources in the congregation of Šmartno ob Paka and another nearby municipality were cut off because of the road, which is well written on the regulation. The government insists on almost twice as expensive a variant, but at the same time we are talking about saving money. The government insists on a variant where 50 housing houses will be demolished instead of demolishing five housing houses elsewhere. The government, which wants to make a quick link with Velenje, insists on a variant that will take six years to build, instead of on the old road's reconstruction variant, the Arja Vas variant – a year and a half. How do you get a longer version if you want to do it quickly?Oh, my God! The government will break the regional link with this road, which is normal; Celje – Velenje – Slovenia Gradec or Koroška. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u251	Irene Maycen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u252	When answering the question about the installation of the line for Velenje connection to the A1 motorway connection, it has been said several times that this process lasted more than ten years, that is, since 2004, that in the beginning some variants have been processed, that this existing route has already been recognized as the most favourable, in all respects, not only from one point of view, but from all points of view. That the process of putting into space in 2000 – I am now referring to because the question was not designed in writing, I am referring to it – in 2011, 2012 the number of options were discontinued and processed. I think that these variants were very large where it turned out that none of the variants proposed had any problems. In Slovenia, it is certain that putting into space through state spatial plans shows that any placement is difficult. And in this installation there are different components, once this is an environmental aspect, there can also be water, it can be Natura 2000. Then, many times, we face problems of people around us, of settlements; which suggests that agricultural land is also a problem, in fact, a problem. It is true, however, that the existing motorway years ago, which was built through the Savinja Valley, certainly caused many more hectares of agricultural land to be needed for the construction of the highway than in this section. This means that when all these aspects are taken into account and evaluated, an option that achieves at least a negative impact on the environment is chosen. That this option, which has been chosen, is actually more expensive, that is to say, to invest more money, is due in particular to the fact that, in the course of the route, there has been an attempt to avoid as many hectares of agricultural land as possible, and therefore the implementation of this route has increased. It is true, however, that it is impossible to compare estimates of values at different stages of the preparation of the documentation. And this is a distortion of facts that doesn't come from actual data. In addition, some of the VAT will be accepted, in Slovenia [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u253	Mr Matjaž Hanžek, you have the floor for a procedural request. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u254	Thank you very much. Of course, I demand to talk to the National Assembly about this problem, which has been going on for more than ten years; but because of various abuses. I'd like to make one argument here, two ministers have now told me completely different. The minister said it was the best option, the minister said it was the second worst option. Now I would like to ask you to discuss in the National Assembly what this option is: is it really among the worst or is it really the best. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u255	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Mr Andrej Cuz will ask the question of the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Peter Gasperšić. Mr. Hear, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u256	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr. Secretary! As the question on the issue of the far-off Circovce-Pince has already been raised by a fellow Member today, I would rather go to a concrete debate and question without any chronological checks. I am also aware of when certain matters have been confirmed in the past, especially in 2014, and I am also aware of which minister they were confirmed at the time. But if, somehow as politicians chosen from people, we ask and say, if we are to live in a healthy environment, if we are to have human health as a priority, even if we are to not pollute the environment and also take care of animals, then in my opinion the remotes do not count; at least they are the ones that have been envisaged so far. Regarding the far-off Circovce–Pince, I asked you a few years ago about a similar problem in one of the Gorje municipalities, they are setting up and appearing in all the local communities where the government comes with such proposals. Local communities are getting on their feet, civil initiatives are being set up to warn about harm to health, to people, to the population, and also to other things. In recent days he has had several meetings and visits by representatives of civil initiatives as well as concerned citizens and citizens, especially from the Videm municipality, then Markovtsev, Gorišnica, Ormož, also Ljutomera. And I must say that I also convey to you the message that these people are willing to use all legal means to listen to their opinions and to build this infrastructure underground. I also read in the regional newspaper one interesting and also sad information, which is a major criticism of Eles, entitled: Farmers were drawn briefly. Eles bought the land from the Treasury at a higher price. And then what happens? To even get information that the Agricultural Land Fund has sold its land for once more than other farmers have received. I think it's about literally stretching farmers and also local communities. And I want to know: How do you intend to proceed in these procedures, given that people and the local population, including part of the reason in the National Assembly, at least as far as this is concerned, oppose this envisaged route in such a form? People will also set up barricades, live shields, local referendums, the Constitutional Court, the European Court of Human Rights and so on. This shows there's something wrong with this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u257	Dr. Peter Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u258	Thank you, President, for your word. Thank you, too, honourable Member, Mr Chuš, for the question raised. Yes, today Member Susana Lepi Šimenko has already raised a question regarding the issue of the installation of cables, high-voltage cables in the space. This is the problem that we face in putting all the cables across Slovenia, here in Ljubljana, in Primorska and also in Cirkovce-Pince there are no exceptions. This remote control is already in place. There are now procedures for obtaining environmental consent and then also for obtaining a building permit. In this regard, it is necessary to know that this is a pipeline, which is also important for the international electricity connection of Slovenia with Hungary. There were also certain commitments and contracts between the two operators of the electricity transmission network; between Eles on the Slovenian side and Mavir on the Hungarian side. Here we are bound by these commitments that this pipeline must be built by the end of 2018. When this building permit is obtained, all possible open issues regarding impacts on human health and the environment will have to be addressed. I'm sure the investor here, that's Eles, had to prove it properly. I'm not here to defend an investor. I am in favour of all the remotes being placed in such a way that there will be no doubt that the impact on health is in any way too great. We also discussed this in the first issue today. In short, we have rules here. These rules, too, have already been agreed, we will also re-examine in terms of how this area is regulated abroad; that this precautionary principle will indeed be enforced and that there will be no doubt that these projects are being put in place, implemented and constructed in such a way that there will be no adverse impact on the population. I count that this will also be respected here and finally achieved. We'll make sure that investor Eles respects this commitment ourselves at the Ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u259	Andrej Chuš, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u260	Thank you very much for the correct position. I think you could also be a mediator between local communities and Eles in this case. But here I also have one of the civilian, we can say, local initiatives. It is the proposal of all local initiatives because they have been organised in almost all municipalities where this remote control is designed to take the cables underground. And according to Eles, the main problem is that this would mean a significantly higher cost. I'm going to have a little regional development, when we're talking about some congregations that are already over-developed today, it's no problem to raise a few million a night. On the other hand, for some deprived, less developed municipalities in the northeastern part of Slovenia, every euro is a problem. I also don't understand Eles, who says it's too much. On the other hand, I would not want to get involved in their business of how many pear contracts they have paid, pear agencies, how much excess costs, untransparentness. Members of the National Assembly, I think everyone could count one or two such things, not just Eles; and I don't want to talk about it anymore. It is a request for local initiatives, and if I quote one of the people of Videm: "Of course we are determined against such a remote. Let the path go under the ground and by the lake, where the land is wholly owned by the state fund." And I am also here to inform you and to warn you that the inhabitants of these local communities and municipalities will use all legal means, including another means to prevent the currently proposed route and variant that harms people and harms nature. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u261	Thank you very much. Minister, do you want an answer? Please, Mr. Peter Gaspersich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u262	Thank you very much. I'd say so. If the requirements of the civil initiative are justified, justified and, in fact, demonstrated in any way that there could be any, even small, impact on human health, there must be no speech that any other search for a solution that would prevent these harmful effects is too costly. Such influences should simply not be admissible. In the opposite direction, however, the expectations of the surrounding population must not be put in such a way that they insist on or require the incorporation of certain transmission lines in cases where these impacts, proven in accordance with all international standards and norms, are not such as to be considered harmful. If withdrawals are sufficient, if the distraction is just a glimpse of a remote control, this cannot be the reason why such a remote control is required to dig in. But if these effects prove to be such that health effects can be harmful, then of course we must not talk about any way that finding a solution can be too expensive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u263	Thank you very much. Andrej Chuš you have the floor to request a procedural request. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u264	Indeed, I would like to make a procedural request that this issue be discussed at the next meeting of the National Assembly, but not as a criticism to the Minister, but that a substantive debate be held to present a number of aspects, both environmental, health and local community aspects. I don't think we talk about this much in this house. I would like to hold a substantive discussion at the next meeting and try to find the best or optimal solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u265	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. We are moving on to the second round of questions from Members and Members of Parliament. We have three more questions. Mr Marko Ferruga will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnificent Nutrition a question. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u266	Thank you. Greetings to the Minister and both ministers! The minister has certainly known that this coastal pingpong on golf on the Coast has been going on for more than ten years. We both know that the municipality of Piran is a tourist municipality and that, as such, it probably needs a golf course, even if the guest level rises to a higher level. We will not talk about climate, we will not talk about such and different comments from civil initiatives, environmentalists and so on; but we need to focus on something. If we are not able to do so on the coast, and regardless of the dispute between the Agricultural Land and Forests Fund, the Ministry, potential investors and civil initiatives, it is necessary to say that the Golf Istria consortium has been established, d.o.o., where major coastal companies have invested money. If I have the correct information, more than 50,000 of this money went to waste because Golf Istria was infamously ruined because there was no way they could reconcile how it would work. Let me also say that it is on the Croatian coast, which is less than 15 kilometres from the border, a golf course with 18 holes, and they also have written as Istrian County that the strategic interest in the development of Croatian tourism is also the development of golf; that 22 potential playgrounds have only in the Istrian area and that they call on potential investors and credit. However, it is also commendable that the Ministry has been so committed to visiting some potential places in November 2016, one of these places is the Circle; but, unfortunately, the professional public has identified it as useless for golf. I want to know: Will it be possible for all stakeholders to come up with a compromise solution so that coastal tourism can once, in the near future, have a golf course to raise the level of coastal tourism? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u267	The Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magi Food has the floor. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u268	Thank you, Chairman. I also thank the honourable Member for the question raised. Please don't mind if I fix you up a little. There are not 10 years of ping-pong between the Ministry and the Coastal Playground. Pingpong is about some specific location; it is a big difference. I would like to tell you that the Ministry was re-evaluated in May 2013 to assess the specific location which says it is exceptional to the agricultural production position; and it went proactively against the coast. Part of this was to evaluate 12 potential sites for golf courses and to discuss them in a different way. My request would be, honourable Member, when we are looking for locations that can be relatively quickly found, but we are aware, nevertheless, that our common interest should be to try to place ourselves where natural resources are less threatened. That's the location. It is clear to me that where the best agricultural land is, construction is the cheapest; but it must not be criteria. If we actually lose this, this, this and this, we'll end up wondering what we've lost as a whole. The specific location you were asking about. Why is there such a problem with her? Because it is located on the highest quality agricultural land, even at the country level, and because it is in pieces. That's the obstacle. Therefore, the Ministry of the Municipality of Piran advised that the location of the golf course should be placed on agricultural land with a lower rating, which would also be acceptable from the point of view of protecting the best agricultural land. As a possible option, the proposed location on the Circle was. I think the Ministry has now agreed with the representatives of the Piran Municipality to take a closer look at the field. The arguments are considered, as I also see clearly that there is a need to find a solution. But let's look for solutions where one of the interests is not at stake, knowing that there are more other interests. It should also be said that it is 24. 1. 2017 concluded the proceedings before the court. The Supreme Court of Cyprus ruled in respect of 200 hectares of agricultural land in Sečovje, which were the subject of a dispute, this time definitively, except for two or three smaller plots, in favour of the State or the Fund. As you know, for these lands, there is a great deal of interest on the part of local food growers to purchase them and also to start producing food that is, however, lacking. That is why, honourable Member, I would also ask you to understand our arguments. We're ready. We'll keep looking. This is already agreed with the local community, field visits, exchange of expert opinions and so on. I would ask that we understand that the best agricultural land should also be protected as a public interest; and that you support us in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u269	Mr. Marko Ferruga? No, no, no. We continue with Mr Andrej Čuš, who will ask the question of the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič, who is excusedly absent today. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u270	Thanks again. I would like to say at the outset that I would like to receive an answer at the next oral meeting. Today I wanted to talk to the Minister about the situation of young people in the Republic of Slovenia, the participation of young people in society, the equality of young people, the younger generation compared to other generations and other groups. A few days ago, I introduced a package of youth legislation into the parliamentary procedure. It would be considered primarily by the Law on Student Food Subsidisation, the Law on the Organisation and Financing of Education and Education, the Law on Social Protection, the proposal for a recommendation on the inclusion of a youth representative in the Economic and Social Council. An initiative has also been made to hold a debate or at least a reflection, as well as in other neighbouring countries of the European Union, on the reduction of electoral rights; at least at local elections. I kind of wanted to have a warm-up today before this debate at the next meeting of the National Assembly and on the parental committees, which will be in 10 to 14 days. Why is he going? I used Facebook to get young people to tell them what their main problems were in the country and what they would improve. All highlighted equality in the labour market, which would lead to some possibility of faster employment or a more stable form of employment. As a result, it would also mean a faster chance of self-sustainment, since we are in these statistics when we talk about the self-sustainment of young people, entirely on the tail of the Member States of the European Union; and this cannot somehow be proud of us. On the other hand, in the National Assembly, we have a bunch of adopted youth laws, and we have a National Youth Programme, which includes a few hundred pages. And if you ask eight clients or seven in the National Assembly today, you might know in two what this is all about. It's not an understatement, but I'm saying that pawns or buys us paper, some 300 pages of some analysis and ideas will not bring and improve the situation of young people, but will mainly take action. Here I appeal to all Slovenian policies to find consensus, to include a youth representative in the Economic and Social Council, otherwise I think this body is unnecessary and unrepresentative, because it does not represent one of the most important generations in Slovenia. We need to know if we have about 20,000 newborns per year and, on the other hand, Slovenia leaves about 8 000 people annually, including especially young people and higher education, we need to ask ourselves where we want to be as a country. I don't think we have any perspectives today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u271	Mr Luka Mesec will ask the Minister of Health Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u272	Thank you for your word and a nice hello! I will ask the Minister a question about the reanimobile, this is a rescue vehicle with a doctor and a team of two paramedics, in Zasavje. In the entire network of emergency medical units in Slovenia, only two emergency centres, the Trbovlje and Brežice Emergency Centres, do not have a specific team of reanimobiles. The professional public in Zasavje, says doctors who have been working in emergency medical care for many years, are convinced that such an arrangement is unequal and unfair to the inhabitants of Zasavje, as well as to the inhabitants of Brežice, who face the same problem. A total of 64 thousand 700 inhabitants in the wider town of Zasavje and 70 thousand 500 inhabitants gravitating at the Emergency Centre of Brežica do not have the possibility of equal health care provided to the rest of the Republic of Slovenia. If I focus on Zasavje, I agree with the opinion of these doctors that the current regime is inconsistent with the Emergency Medical Services Regulation, which provides, inter alia, that the network of services should be organised on the basis of the same rules for an area of the whole country where, for a part outside the hospital, that is to say, emergency assistance in the field, factors such as the number and demographic structure of the population, the geographical and traffic conditions – and in Zasavje we have to deal with the hilly world – the territorial distance from the emergency centres and the needs of the population reflected in the health indicators where we have a higher level of heart drop than the average, higher size of the brain drop, higher mortality due to heart disease and resuscitation, higher rate of mortality compared to the Slovenian average. That is why my question to the Minister is: Why is there no reanimobile in the Emergency Centres of Brežica and Zasavje? The second question concerns a letter received by the Directors of Health Homes in Zasavje and Trbovlje General Hospital to the General Council of the College of the Ministry of Health, where you were briefed and asked for an answer. As I am aware, they have not yet received a written reply, but they were informed that you discussed this in an extended professional college. I want to know: What did you agree there, and in what direction are you leaning? To conclude, I would just like to point out once again that the Sausages and the Brezians need a reanimobile, since every life is important. In this case, however, it is not possible to think about collateral damage, as everyone in Slovenia must be treated equally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u273	Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u274	Thank you very much, honourable Member, Mr Luka Mesec, for the question. Vice-President of the National Assembly, colleague; yeah, I'm obviously on my own. Well, then, I welcome these other Members! As you know, the emergency medical system in the Republic of Slovenia has been operational and functioning since 1996. We increase the funds for its operation every year. In line with the public debate on the proposal for a new regulation on emergency medical care and local community requirements, the NMP network has remained unchanged since 2008. In order to strengthen the emergency health care network, we have provided additional funds in 2016, totalling almost €3.8 million. In the area covered by the Trbovlje Emergency Centre, there are four emergency medical units, namely the unit in the Trbovlje Health House, the Hrastnik Health House, the Lithium Health House and the Zagorje Health House. According to the NMP network of NMP services, which was in force before the adoption of the new NMP service regulation, the so-called unit C acted. The financing of these has not changed in any way by adopting the new Regulation, but the new Regulation has introduced some new elements or innovations into the terminology of NMP units. The former pre-hospital units, which are characterised by a high frequency of emergency interventions, are named under the new Regulation as the mobile unit of the reanimobile. The previous pre-hospital units are named by the new regulation as reanimobile mobile units in which the doctor is constantly present. The unit has added emergency transport services or doctors in different forms of presence in relation to the need for an NMP. Former C and B units are referred to as emergency ambulance mobile units and have an added presence of a doctor in different forms of work according to the need for an NMP. The operation of all units has not changed with the new Regulation; only a different description of the elements of the NMP service is due solely to the change in the method of financing the activity. The mobile unit of the reanimobile as a form of the NMP outpatient service therefore means the presence of a doctor in an emergency ambulance. In view of the emergency interventions carried out in almost 50% of all NMP interventions in the field, there is no need for a physician to be present. The new NMP Service Regulation allows a doctor to be included in the team if necessary when the emergency ambulance is activated and the intervention is carried out in the reanimobile mobile unit. This also allows the presence of a doctor on the ground in the Emergency Price area of Trbovlje. In addition to the 1.6 mobile emergency ambulance team, the Trbovlje Health Centre has a recognised duty 2 in accordance with the network of the current NMP Service Regulations, which means that between 7 and 20 a.m., the NMP is on duty between 20 and 7 a.m. and, of course, the whole Saturday, Sunday and holidays. In 2016, in the framework of regular supervision of the implementation of the NMP at the Trbovlje Health House, the Supervisory Commission concluded that the NMP staff composition is not in accordance with the Emergency Medical Services Regulation, as they lack regular staff doctors to carry out the on-call service, even though they are financed and fully recognised. The Supervisory Commission also concluded that the need for additional rescue workers to be employed in order to ensure the work of the emergency ambulance 2 team and the large realisation of emergency rescue services. The finding is worrying, as it means that they have failed to ensure even the already funded standard they have all these years paid. And I'll continue in the second part.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u275	Port of the Moon, you have the floor to request a reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u276	Thank you for your word. Minister, I'd like to ask you first if you could be a little less technical. Units A, B, C to people watching us on TV don't mean much. Please understand this language that you have written down and speak in a way that is understandable. As far as the specific issue in the Rippers is concerned, the matter is next. Trbovlje General Hospital is already as humanely fed, as you have already described. According to current regulations, according to the information I obtained, there is a situation in which doctors on call at the hospital have to go to the field when necessary. This means that the on-call service can remain without a doctor for several hours, which will greatly prolong the waiting period for patients with acute illness in the emergency centre and make their health worse. Once again, I would like to ask as many specific answers as possible to two questions: Can they expect a reanimobile in the Ripper because, judging by what you said, they need it for emergency medical care in the field? What did you agree to at the extensive professional college of the Ministry of Health where you received the call and question of health home directors from Zasavje and General Hospital Trbovlje on this subject that I ask you about? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u277	Madam Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u278	Dear Member, yes, indeed, it is possible to know how the emergency medical system works, that we have units A, B and pre-hospital units. For each unit, however, what the team includes and what kind of ambulance. I just wanted to say what surveillance found out. He found out about the situation in health homes, the Trbovlje in particular where this control was carried out. It was found that the healthcare home has paid for it, has paid doctors and has no paramedics. The task of the Director of Health Home is likely to be organised with the other directors of all Posavska health centres by providing on-call work 24 hours, 7 days per week, 365 days per year. As much as it's actually funded. The latest information is, I am not a member of the RSK and I cannot tell you exactly what the RSK has agreed on for emergency medicine; but from the review it has been found and it is promised that they will now take care of additional staffing, at least in the part where they can, if doctors are already lacking, but rescuers can be obtained. It is precisely because family medicine doctors do not perform on-calls when they have an ambulance. And if they're called to an ambulance, then the ambulance stays empty or people are waiting in the infirmary. But let me answer the second question, we are in a hurry to build a dispatch centre in Maribor, and by the end of the year, the entire dispatch centre for the territory of Slovenia will be operational, where dispatchers will assess the need for a reanimobile with a doctor. So regardless of the location in Slovenia, whether it will be in Zasavje, whether it will be in Koroška, whether it will be in Tolmin, or in the trentar hills, calling 112 and based on the description of the injury, the dispatcher will assess and send the nearest reanimobile with the entire team, including the doctor, to help this person. This is exactly the way that all Slovenians and Slovenians will have equal and prompt assistance regardless of the relief situation.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u279	Mr Luka Mesec, you have the floor to request a procedural request to hold a debate at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u280	Thank you for saying that again. I understand from the Minister's response that we would like to give the ball back to the Director or Director of General Hospital and Medical Home Trbovlje and in general in Zasavje. But I am sure it is not fair that only emergency centres in Zasavje and Brežica of all in Slovenia do not have a reanimobile to provide emergency medical care on the ground. This is a problem with the aspects I've described. In general, in Zasavje we face higher mortality, higher proportions of strokes and strokes. It is essential that this is resolved, especially in the light of the fact that the General Hospital of Trbovlje already has a problem with the specialists, which I have pointed out before several meetings. And I think these are urgent problems that we need to resolve with regard to the structure of the population there, namely the issue of specialisations and the issue of providing emergency assistance on the ground. I therefore propose that we hold a debate on this subject in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-13-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u281	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. I thank the ministers and ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government for the answers given. I also hereby end this agenda item, which we will continue tomorrow, on 14 February, when the National Assembly, in the framework of the votes, decides on the proposed decisions. I also hereby adjourn the 27th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed at 9 a.m. tomorrow. Thank you very much and very much for the rest of the day!
