ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and distinguished fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 33rd meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Ljudmila Novak from 17:00 on, Janja Slug from 14:00 on, Andreja Potočnik from 16:00 on, Ksenija Korenjak Kramar from 14:00 on, Irena Grošelj Kosnik from 16.30 on, Erika Dekleva from 14:00 on, Nada Brinovšek from 14:00 on, Jelka Godec, Suzanne Lepi Šimenko from 14:00 on, Tomaž Gantar, Matjaž Germany from 16:00 on, Dr. Franc Trček, Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec between 10 a.m. and 3 p.m. on, Daniel Krivec, Zvonko Lah, Jernej Vrtovec from 17 a.m. on, mag. Matthew Tonin from 19:00 on, Danilo Anton Ranc, Marjan Dolinšek until 14:00, Roberto Battelli and Violeta Tomić from 15:00 on. I welcome everyone else here! We're moving to 3. Period of the day, it's a proposal for a law to supplement the law on banks of Slovenia, a summary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Gorazd Renčelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u2	Thank you for your word. Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a law supplementing the Bank of Slovenia Act was sent by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the National Assembly on the basis of a decision of the 17th session of the Commission for the supervision of public finances of 18. 9. 2015 that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia examine the possibility of legal arrangements for the supervision of the Bank of Slovenia. In preparing the bill, the government has tried to pursue two objectives at the same time as far as possible. Firstly, to establish clear frameworks for the audit of the Court of Auditors over the operations of the Bank of Slovenia, and secondly, to take into account safeguards resulting from the constitutional position of the Bank of Slovenia and from the applicable European regulations in the revision of the operation of the central bank by the national audit authority. A clear regulatory regime in this proposal is necessary to ensure that the Court of Auditors has a clear audit power. The bill provides that the Court of Auditors will be able to revise the correctness and prudence of the Bank of Slovenia in accordance with the Law on the Court of Auditors. In the management of the Bank of Slovenia’s operations, however, the Court of Auditors will not be required to revise acts representing the determination and implementation of monetary policy in accordance with the rules laid down by the decision-making bodies of the European Central Bank. The audit by the Court of Auditors shall not cover the application and interpretation of the law and practice of control exercised by Banka Slovenije under the Bank of Slovenia Act and other regulations and the framework of the single control mechanism. Notwithstanding that proposal, the Court of Auditors provides that the supervisory practices carried out by Banka Slovenije until 4 November 2014 may be assessed by the Court of Auditors and led to the use of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. 4. 11. 2014 is the date on which a single control mechanism was put in place with the European Central Bank, which has taken control of banks of systemic importance in the euro area Member States. The Court of Auditors shall also not include in the audit the powers and actions of the Bank of Slovenia which it carries out as an integral part of the European System of Central Banks and the Eurosystem or as a member of the European System of Financial Supervision in the activities of the European Banking Authority, the European Systemic Risk Committee and the Single Resolution Mechanism. In addition, the Court of Auditors will not be able to directly audit the European Central Bank, the other members of the European System of Central Banks and the Eurosystem. The bill stipulates that Banka Slovenije will not be obliged to report to the Court of Auditors on the elimination of any irregularities and recklessness which may have been disclosed. However, it is envisaged that the Bank of Slovenia will explain any deviation from the recommendations proposed by the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors shall not have the power to propose discharges to members of the Board of the Bank of Slovenia and shall not interfere with the activities of independent external auditors in carrying out the audit. As the central bank of the Republic of Slovenia and as a member of the Eurosystem, the Bank of Slovenia has an extremely important role to play as the guardian of price and financial stability. This important role, on the one hand, provides it with a special position in both the domestic legal order and the specific status in the European legal framework. On the other hand, the important role of Banka Slovenije also entails a great deal of responsibility. The purpose of the Government is to strengthen the transparency of the Bank of Slovenia's operation by means of the proposed law, taking into account its specific situation in our constitutional order and its involvement in the Eurosystem. According to the Government, the bill represents an important step towards strengthening the integrity of Banka Slovenije’s supervisory decisions, which led to the use of public funds. Transparency in this context can have a positive impact on the credibility of the measures carried out by the Bank of Slovenia in accordance with its function, and the Government therefore proposes that the proposal be supported by the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u3	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. In order to present the Committee's report, I give the floor to Mrs Urska Ban, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u4	Thank you very much for your word. All together, good morning! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall hold its 41st session. 9. 2017 as a parent working body, the proposal for a law supplementing the Bank of Slovenia Act submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption following a reduced procedure. The Committee also received the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Commission of the State Economic, Commercial, Tourism and Finance Council, the opinion of the European Central Bank, the opinion of the Bank of Slovenia on the proposed law and the opinion of the Bank of Slovenia on the amendments tabled. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the amendments to Articles 1 and 2 of the draft law have been tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Court of Auditors, the European Court of Auditors, the Bank of Slovenia, the Legal and Legislative Service and the representative of the Council of State attended the meetings of the Committee. In the introductory explanation, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance explained the solutions to the bill. He said that amendments to the law set out the exact conditions and scope for the revision of the regularity and prudence of the Bank of Slovenia's operations by the Court of Auditors. The law also provides that the Court of Auditors may assess the correctness and prudence of the control practices carried out by the Bank of Slovenia until the establishment of a single control mechanism is determined by those funds that have been spent on the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that they had already pointed out in a written opinion the independence guaranteed to the Central Bank in Article 152 of the Constitution. In view of the exemption from the limitation of audit powers and the unspecified audit powers, the Bank of Slovenia could be affected by the independence or independence of the Bank of Slovenia in the exercise of its tasks and powers. The representative of the Council of State said that the Commission of the Council of State supported the bill. The President of the Court of Auditors presented the Court's position on the proposed solutions. He pointed out that the Court of Auditors is aware of its limitations arising from the independence of the Bank of Slovenia. Therefore, the Court of Auditors may make recommendations and cannot give instructions for the operation of the Bank of Slovenia arising from the European framework. With regard to the amendments tabled, he presented certain concerns which could have an impact on the operational implementation of the audit, namely regarding the free access to the Bank of Slovenia documentation and the activities that would have been subject to the audit. He said that the Court of Auditors had significantly greater powers to return, i.e. before the implementation of the single control mechanism which changed the control system. The purpose of the revision is to draw attention to past irregularities or recklessness primarily with a view to preventing the occurrence of such deviations in the future. The vice-governor of the Bank of Slovenia said that the Committee had received both written opinions from the Bank of Slovenia, both on the proposal of the law and on the amendments tabled and summarized them briefly. With regard to the text of the amendments, the Bank of Slovenia has basically two concerns, namely, regarding ensuring the independence of the central bank and the envisaged retroactive application of the bill. A member of the European Court of Auditors said that the European Court of Auditors in the Single Supervisory Mechanism Regulation already had a basis for carrying out the supervision of the European Central Bank, although to a limited extent of its operational activities, but could carry out a review of that control. Therefore, it considers that the audit itself does not constitute an interference with the independence of the Bank of Slovenia, but that if the instruction was given, this could constitute an interference with this independence. With the mere limitation of the Court of Auditors, such an audit would not be disputed. The discussion highlighted the need for the Court of Auditors to have access to all the information it needs in the audit process and that this does not prejudice the independence of the Bank of Slovenia. In the ensuing debate, it was pointed out that the Court of Auditors, as recently amended by Article 126 of the Banking Act, also had access to confidential bank data. The question of the harmonisation of the proposed solution with the European Court of Auditors and the European Central Bank was also raised. The role of the Court of Auditors in the Constitutional Regulation, which defines the Court of Auditors as the highest authority for the control of state accounts, state budget and total public expenditure, has also been highlighted. In addition, the Deputy Governor of the Bank of Slovenia and the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance provided additional explanations and answers. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered and adopted the amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups to Articles 1 and 2. The Committee then voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u5	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Left Group, Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! If you ask members of the coalition, this law is a terrible success. For the first time, the Court of Auditors will be able to revise the operations of the Bank of Slovenia. But if we take a good look, we see that things aren't quite like that. This was also pointed out by the President of the Court of Auditors, who said that under this law the Court of Auditors can effectively monitor only the domestic part of the Bank of Slovenia's business. If I do a little caricature. The auditors can verify that the Governor has spent too much on business trips and representation, but they cannot verify that Banka Slovenije has rightly requested the recapitalisation of banks in 2013 with billions of our common money or, so to speak, the coalition will claim that it can verify while Banka Slovenije says it cannot. If the Bank of Slovenia fails, the question is whether it will provide the Court of Auditors with the relevant information. That's also what the President of the Court warned. Of course, the left of the proposal will not support it, because it is actually a step backwards. We have 150th Article of the Constitution and the Law on the Court of Auditors, which stipulates that the Court of Auditors revises all persons of public law in Slovenia. Article 1 of the Bank of Slovenia Act states that the Bank of Slovenia is a person of public law. From a legal point of view, then, the matter is clear. The Court of Auditors shall have the right to verify the regularity of the Bank of Slovenia. That the Court of Auditors has not oversaw Banka Slovenije in recent years is not the fault of the legislation, of the well-respected colleague and colleague, but of the politicians who directed the state authorities, indirectly the Court of Auditors. If we leave behind the technology, it is important to know whether this law will answer the question of whether the government of Alenka Bratušek has spent too much public money to rehabilitate banks. The answer is clear. We won't get that answer. The recapitalisation decision was not taken by Banka Slovenije, which does not manage the budget itself, but by the government of Alenka Bratušek. If Cerar's government really wanted to investigate the bank's rehabilitation, as promised to the electorate, it didn't need any Court of Auditors, the Systemic Investigations Act would be sufficient. Minister Klemenčič has been bringing this law together for three years, but in the end, the coalition withdraws it every time. I wonder why he takes it away every time. That is why we do not prescribe any weight to this law today, and it seems to us that this is more and only an advertisement for pre-election confrontations. Now the citizens know that Levica has already taken the entire mandate to carry out a comprehensive investigation into the rehabilitation of banks. But I don't know if they know why it's so important or why we insist on it. Now I'll tell you why. In the first place, it is not about the persecution of the then government and the governor of Jazbec, or it would be very necessary and important, but it is much more important here that we stop the privatisation of banks. If we prove that the recovery was too extensive, we would have a good argument to negotiate with the European Commission. In these negotiations, however, we should ensure that the banks in the country are not privatised. At the beginning of the mandate, the Left proposed a decision to stop the privatisation of all companies, including NKBM. Cerar's government then claimed that this could not be done. On our oral questions, Cerar even stated that it was impossible to stop the sale of Telekom. Remember, that's why the then Secretary of Defense Janko Weber flew away. And yet we stopped the sale of Telekom – we in Levica because we obtained additional information. What happened? The world hasn't stopped spinning. This year, the same government turned the record around and demanded the postponement of NLB's sales, but in the meantime, NKBM sold it under every reasonable target. If I were to postpone sales for only one year, we could get about 120 million euros more. Portugal and Italy were able to handle this at the same time. Of course we don't. I will end the question for the coalition MPs. Why have you allowed such obvious damage to citizens and who will be responsible? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u7	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Center Party, for her mag. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Dear Secretary of State, Members of Parliament, a very nice greeting! Given my position, I cannot allow myself to answer the somewhat provocative question of the honourable Member, who, in the previous stage, represented a position, but highlighted matters that are a matter for discussion. But I hope you'll allow her to go a little overboard as far as her discussion is concerned. I will now proceed to the report of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. Today we are amending the Bank of Slovenia Act, which is the basic law on the functioning of the Central Bank of Slovenia. In view of the fact that the Court of Auditors, pursuant to Article 150 of the Constitution, is the highest authority for the control of state accounts, state budget and total public expenditure, it is therefore proposed to supplement the Bank of Slovenia Act, which will enable the Court of Auditors to carry out an audit of the regularity and prudence of the Bank of Slovenia. We have provided the Court of Auditors with a proposal for a law to assess the correctness and prudence of control practices by November 2014. And why November 2014? That is when a single control mechanism was established by the European Central Bank. Thus, central banks no longer have the opportunity to monitor systemic banks because they are the responsibility of the European Central Bank. In any event, it makes sense for the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre to have a certain statutory period of review up to 15 years since the entry into force of this Act. This will give the Court of Auditors the opportunity to revise supervisory measures even during the multi-billion-dollar recapitalisation of banks by taxpayers. We are aware that the decisions of the Bank of Slovenia will not be affected by the Court of Auditors, as this is not its role. The Bank of Slovenia is independent under the Constitution and therefore is not in law provisions which would give the Court of Auditors an opportunity to intervene in the decisions of the Bank of Slovenia. The draft law also excludes the possibility of the Court of Auditors calling for the discharge of the members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia and allows it to make recommendations to the Bank of Slovenia regarding the disclosure of irregularities and recklessness. In view of the fact that Banka Slovenije is responding to the National Assembly, it is stipulated in this Act that the Court of Auditors must report to the National Assembly without delay the derogation from the recommendations made to Banka Slovenije. In this way, the National Assembly will play a more active role in the parliamentary supervision of the Bank of Slovenia through the Court of Auditors. In the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre, we are aware that according to the Bank of Slovenia, it is independent. This role is maintained in the future. However, in order to increase the credibility of the Bank of Slovenia, it is necessary to increase the transparency of its operation. This can only be done by allowing the revision of the Bank of Slovenia to the Court of Auditors as the supreme auditor in the Republic of Slovenia. For all of this, the SMC Group will support the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Bank of Slovenia Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u9	The word is given by the SDS Group of Members, for her mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u10	Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a supplement to the Bank of Slovenia Act and the main purpose of supplementing this Act is to enable the revision of the Bank of Slovenia, which will be administered by the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia. It should be pointed out in the introduction that the Slovenian Democratic Party has always taken sides and has always stressed the need for supervision of the Bank of Slovenia and that it makes sense for the Bank of Slovenia to be supervised by the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that if an institution is independent, this does not mean that such an institution has no control. We are convinced that no matter whether the institution is independent, there is a need for supervision. We are convinced that the Court of Auditors is one who can exercise quality control over an institution such as the Bank of Slovenia. In view of the proposal for a law, however, we are also concerned in some segments of the Slovenian Democratic Party, as it was clear in the debate itself that the comments on the proposed law are mainly made by both stakeholders. The shareholders involved in this law, the Court of Auditors and the Bank of Slovenia. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the Government or the Ministry of Finance could draw up a better law, in particular one that would give clear instructions to express transparently what the powers of the Court of Auditors are, where the Court of Auditors can go and what the role of the Court of Auditors is. Because of the above arguments, we will not give support to this law, nor will we oppose it. Let us hope that this law can be supplemented in the future, which would improve the law itself. Above all, it is the interest of all of us – it must be that an institution such as Banka Slovenije works transparently and that it also has control. Finally, the European Central Bank also has its own supervision, which is managed by the European Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u11	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Uroš Prikl has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u12	Dear President, distinguished colleagues, respected colleagues! This is about the Proposal for a Law on the Bank of Slovenia. Let me tell you in the beginning that we will support this bill in the Desus Group. If I may say so, the possibility of auditing Banka Slovenije by the Court of Auditors has been dragging for quite some time, but we are finally coming up with a solution that will satisfy the desire to revise not only that household part, but also to activate the supervisory function of Banka Slovenije, and at the same time we will not intervene in independence, sovereignty, autonomy, whatever is guaranteed in Banka Slovenije and also in our constitution. In the Desus Group, we believe or believe that, with the proposal of this law that we are discussing today, we have reached such a compromise that will help us shed light on the situation even at the time of the recapitalisation of banks. The proposal for a law on the revision of the Bank of Slovenia shall be permitted until November 2014, when the single control mechanism enters into force. However, the recapitalisation of banks, as we know, was carried out prior to this period. In December 2013, the government adopted a decision on capital requirements in eight banks with us totalling around €4.7 billion. The follow-up measures have been determined on the basis of stress tests carried out, which have taken into account assumptions, and I will not say that these tests have been frisked, but have taken into account such assumptions that were much more black-sighted than we believe were actual economic conditions and movements in Slovenia. In all of this it is not about pointing to someone, the potential culprit, the Bank of Slovenia Act will simply allow for the revision of the correctness and usefulness of those decisions in the Bank of Slovenia that led to the use of public funds, tax money. And again, there's no need for anyone to have done anything wrong. However, we strongly oppose the fact that the Bank of Slovenia would be exempt from any control, especially if this control is, this compromise, which we have before us, is of a more gentle nature and does not affect the independence and sovereignty of the bank as such. The Court of Auditors will make a recommendation or recommendation, as proposed by law, which will not be binding on the Bank of Slovenia, but will be obliged to explain them and to make them known to the Court of Auditors and to publish them in its annual report. The European Central Bank obviously has problems with this record, but that is not our problem. However, we can draw your attention to the new Spanish law on bank supervision, which allows for control by the Court of Auditors. But there's probably another country that allows it. Let me finish. In the Desus Group, we have always advocated the need to investigate all the circumstances concerning the alleged irregularities in the recapitalisation of banks, so we will also unanimously support the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u13	Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greeting to all on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. The proposal for a law supplementing the Bank of Slovenia Act, which we are considering today, represents an important step towards finding answers to the question regarding the creation and the way in which the so-called bank hole is resolved. Let me also say in the introduction that we will support this law. In this process of creating a bank hole, we have met with so-called bad scenarios, which we have also called the Greek script, and as a result it has been invested in the banking system for EUR 5.2 billion. This money was actually the money of citizens and citizens, so we owed ourselves and, as a result, we all felt this recapitalisation in terms of reducing wages, reducing pensions of social contributions, paying the cost of transport to work, reducing the rights of veterans and other rights that had already been acquired. The new law on Banka Slovenije thus provides, on the basis of the amendment adopted by the Committee on Finance, a review of the operations of Banka Slovenije, to be carried out by the Court of Auditors. It is an assessment of the correctness and usefulness of the use of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, which has been invested in the rehabilitation of banks. This is an urgent measure, as in 2013 we met precisely manipulative forecasts. We had a catastrophic forecast at the time of the decline in economic growth and a very poor state in the banking system. The forecast for the fall of Slovenia's gross domestic product for 3.1% in 2013 was actually wrong. Only 1% of GDP fell. The decline in GDP was projected at 3.8% in 2014. In fact, economic growth or GDP growth has taken place by 3%. Even if we look at 2015, the catastrophic forecast for the fall in GDP was 2.9%. In fact, there was a growth of 2.5%. So completely missed forecasts to calculate the necessary recapitalisation of banks and consequently completely missed follow-up measures. It is also necessary to mention completely different calculations of stress tests. From 2.7 billion to 4.8 billion was the range in stress test calculations, which also indicates the extent of manipulation in bank hole design. And even concrete examples, for example, the Gorenska Bank has received a request to be recapitalised around EUR 300 million. The Bank's management has warned that this is not true, and in practice this has also been confirmed, as only €13 million needed to be recapitalised. A concrete example of the New Bank of Maribor, which we have recapitalised to citizens and citizens in the amount of EUR 870 million – including 97,000 small shareholders and holders of subordinated bonds – was sold for a total of 250 million and the new owner is today paying several million profits. She needs to know where she came from. The revision of the bank hole is therefore urgently necessary, and a report by the Court of Auditors on the design and calculation of the bank hole is needed before that. Thus, this report will in fact be one of the concrete bases for this audit to be carried out, so we will support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u15	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr. Joseph Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u16	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President. Dear Mr Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposal to amend the Bank of Slovenia Act will allow for the revision of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia over the Bank of Slovenia. Although the Bank of Slovenia is already being revised, it must be audited by an independent external auditor, approved by the Council of the European Union, in accordance with Article 27 of the Statute of the European System of Central Banks and the European Central Bank. The proposal adds the competence of the Republic of Slovenia or the Court of Auditors in this area. The Court of Auditors will therefore be able to assess, in accordance with the proposal of this Act, the following: the soundness and regularity of the Bank of Slovenia; the proposed supervisory measures for which it is competent under the laws; the correctness and prudence of those supervisory decisions of the Bank of Slovenia that led to the use of public funds. The transitional provision allows the Court of Auditors to carry out a retroactive audit for the past 10 years. With regard to the proposal for a law, questions arose about possible interference with the independence of the Bank of Slovenia. However, it must be explained that the Court of Auditors can only make recommendations to the Bank of Slovenia in relation to its operations and not give instructions. Banka Slovenije is not obliged to respect these recommendations, but there is an obligation for Banka Slovenije to make possible non-compliance with the recommendations and thus inform the Court of Auditors. This explanation must, however, be part of the annual report, which is also transmitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The Court of Auditors is also not competent to propose discharges to members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. In addition, the proposal sets out certain areas exempt from the audit of the Court of Auditors. According to New Slovenia, we estimate that the proposed new powers of the Court of Auditors do not constitute an excessive interference with the independence of the Bank of Slovenia. But this novel brings more control and more transparency, so at least it is in the law and we hope it will. We hope and believe that the Court of Auditors will carry out its tasks, which are newly defined by this proposal of law, in a committed and professional manner. Christian Democrats wish them a successful job in doing so. But I can say the following under the line. We learned a lot about the Eurosystem when we took over the euro 1. 1. 2007 We were fortunate enough to have a party president, who was then also Minister of Finance. And, colleagues and colleagues, I hope that this law, which we could also call a school case of populism law, will not mean to us, Members of Parliament and Members, that we will now leave control to the Court of Auditors. We are the first supervisory officer of the Bank of Slovenia. Article 33 of the Bank of Slovenia Act also states that the Council is invited to its meetings, now by name, our colleague, President of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, Urška Ban. It may be there and is in fact equivalent to a member of the Party's Council, except that it has no voting rights. I can say that the then 2004-2008 coalition understood what it meant for Slovenia to become part of the Eurosystem. And what we have heard here today does not seem to be a problem, but it also shows that some MEPs do not understand the Eurosystem. We will support this law because we estimate that it will not interfere excessively with the independence of the Bank of Slovenia. What results, what greater transparency there will be. And the one who thinks that this law has unlocked bank criminals is wrong, and he doesn't really understand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u17	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. Decision on the draft law will be made on Tuesday, 26th, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. 9. 2017, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. On the day-to-day basis, this is a defence proposal for a law on the amendments to the Slovenian Compensation Act after the termination of the procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary, Ministry of Finance mag. Miranda Groff Ferjančič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u18	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Government by means of a proposal for a law governs the transfer of capital investments from the Slovenian State holding company to the ownership of the Republic of Slovenia. SDH was created by taking over the tasks and obligations of the Slovenian Compensation Society or its predecessor of the Slovenian Compensation Fund. The basis for its establishment and operation was established in the first years of the independence of the Republic of Slovenia, first in the Denationalisation Act, and later in the Property Change Act it was stipulated that the Slovenian Compensation Fund would obtain 10% of the value of an individual company in shares or coupons and that the Slovenian Compensation Fund would be established by special law. On this basis, the Act on the Slovenian Indemnity Fund was adopted in 1993. The Slovenian Compensation Company was a financial organisation established to settle obligations to beneficiaries under the Denationalisation Act, the Cooperatives Act and other regulations governing the denationalisation of assets. The liability of the SOD for the payment of damages was further extended by the adoption of the Law on the issue of Bonds for the Remuneration of Remuneration of Remuneration of Assets and the Law on the Fund for the Remuneration of Victims of War and Post-war Violence, which was renamed the Act on the First Amendment on Compensation of Victims of War and Post-war Violence. In these cases, the SOD or SDH acts as an agent of the State, meaning that the Republic of Slovenia repays the funds established under this Title to the company. From 1993 to today, SDH has settled all legal obligations regularly and in a timely manner. The liquidity problems of the then Slovenian Indemnity Companies occurred in 2009 when the company was unable to sell assets due to substantially changed circumstances and two guarantee laws were adopted in 2009 and 2010. Since then, since all the investments were made by the Slovenian Indemnity Companies, strategic investments amounted to over 90% of the portfolio, so it was not possible to sell these investments to pay the company's legal obligations. In July 2015, the National Assembly adopted the Capital Investment Management Strategy of the State, which classified the capital investments of the country as portfolio, important and strategic. SDH investments were largely classified as strategic and significant investments. Due to the legal restrictions set out in the Act on the Slovenian State Holding of SDH with significant and strategic investments, it cannot obtain financial resources from this Title to repay the loans it has leased with the State guarantee to meet the legal obligations. The remaining SDH investments are portfolio investments that this company can freely dispose of. SDH thus found itself in a situation where investments held by SDH cannot provide sufficient resources to pay for legal obligations. As a result, the 2016 Government considered that the most appropriate solution is the recapitalisation of this company. When the Government, as a assembly, ensured liquidity of the insolvency of the Slovenian State holding company, imposed on the Ministry of Finance, with a view to concentrating ownership, strategic and important investments that SDH cannot afford, on the basis of which the Republic of Slovenia would take over the assets which the Slovenian Compensation Fund had obtained free of charge in the course of the property conversion of the companies. The proposed addition to the Slovenian Indemnity Fund Act regulates the gradual transfer of capital investments owned by the Slovenian State Holding, which will be owned by the Republic of Slovenia, and this transfer of investments in phases. In the first phase, SDH will freely bring into the ownership of the Republic of Slovenia a package of strategic and important capital investments traded in the organised market and a total value of at least EUR 200 million. The concentration of ownership of the investment does not affect their management, as the same governance rules apply under the law to all capital investments of the country, irrespective of ownership. By transferring the ownership of companies from SDH to the Republic of Slovenia, SDH will become a classic capital investment manager, thus also eliminating the risk of conflict of interest when SDH acts on the one hand as an investment owner and on the other hand as an asset manager owned by the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u19	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of Mrs Urska Ban.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u20	Dear President, thank you very much for the floor. Say good-bye again! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall hold its 41st session. 9. 2017 as a parent working body, the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Slovenian Compensation Fund submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided at its 97th meeting that the draft law should be examined in a simplified manner. The Committee also received an opinion from the Commission of the State Economic, Trade, Tourism and Finance Council and the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendments to Article 1 of the bill have been tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Council of State and the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meetings of the Committee. In the introductory explanation, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance presented the main solutions to the draft law governing the free transfer of capital investments owned by the Slovenian State Holding Company, owned by the Republic of Slovenia. We have just heard a detailed explanation from the Secretary of State. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that they had raised in a written opinion, within their competences, a legal and systemic issue concerning the relationship between the proposed law and the Slovenian State Holding Act and the nomotechnic question on the systematicity of the new article. The representative of the Council of State presented the written opinion of the Commission, which supports the bill. In the debate, the members and members of the Committee had the most questions regarding denationalisation requests. They pointed out that state ownership is not defined in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. There was also a concern about the impact of the proposed law on the administration of state property itself. At the end of the discussion, the Secretary of State replied to the question raised and provided further clarifications. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Committee considered and adopted the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 1 of the bill and then voted on all the articles and adopted them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u21	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Marusha Škopac.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u22	Thank you for your word! Good-bye, everybody! The Government has introduced a law on amendments to the Slovenian Indemnity Fund Act into the National Assembly, where the assets for SDH operations are provided, inter alia, on the basis of the management and management of securities obtained under the Slovenian Indemnity Fund Act. This Act refers to the Statute of the Slovenian State Holding Company, which provides that the assets for the operation of SDH shall be provided, inter alia, from the part of the funds created on the basis of the management and disposal of securities and other assets obtained under Articles 9, 10 and 11 of the Slovenian Indemnity Fund Act. It follows from the second Article of the basic law of the Basic Law that the Slovenian Indemnity Fund was established to settle obligations to beneficiaries under the Denationalisation Act, the Cooperatives Act and other regulations governing the denationalisation of property. The Act provides in Article 6 that, in order to fulfil the tasks referred to in Article 2 of the Act, the Slovenian Compensation Fund shall issue bonds and other securities and shall manage and dispose of securities and other funds acquired in accordance with the Property Change Act. It is therefore proposed that the Slovenian Indemnity Fund Act be supplemented by a provision regulating the transfer of securities held by the Republic of Slovenia in two phases. In the first phase SDH would free transfer strategic and important investments to the ownership of the Republic of Slovenia. In the next phase, after fulfilling all the obligations under the Slovenian Indemnity Fund Act, SDH would freely transfer all the remaining securities held by it to the ownership of the Republic of Slovenia. After transferring strategic and important investments to the ownership of the Republic of Slovenia, SDH, in terms of its own investments, could only be financed from its portfolio investments. As a result of the loss of income from dividends of strategic and significant capital investments, the issue of financing the settlement of liabilities under the Slovenian Indemnity Fund Act, which is already partially resolved, would also be addressed, as the SDH Statute already contains a provision that appropriations for the settlement of liabilities are also drawn up from the appropriations of the budget. In the event that the appropriations for the settlement of commitments should also be provided from the appropriations of the budget, the SDH should return those appropriations to the budget after the regular sale of portfolio investments. We certainly estimate that the government's solution, which will allow for the centralisation of ownership, strategic and important investments on only one direct owner, is appropriate. For all of this, the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party will support the proposal of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u23	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u24	Dear President! Dear Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! Before us is the amendment to the Slovenian Indemnity Fund Act, namely, the Government and the Coalition propose and foresee that the strategic and portfolio investments currently owned by the Slovenian State Fund amounting to approximately EUR 200 million should be transferred free of charge to the Republic of Slovenia. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we strongly oppose this amendment of the law. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that this undermines the concept of effective governance of state property. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the management of state property under the rule of Mira Cerar and the coalition of parties: the parties of the modern centre, Desus and the Social Democrats are the worst in the history of Slovenia. Undoubtedly, the results of individual state-owned companies also give this. We are convinced that the reasons for this transfer of assets are elsewhere, as stated by the Government and the Ministry of Finance, in their explanations. The fact is that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia had to recapitalise the Slovenian State Holding Company of EUR 200 million at the end of the previous year. This recapitalisation, however, was solely due to the suspension of the privatisation processes by the Government of Mir Cerar and the adoption of a strategy on the management of State assets which is inadequate. An inadequate strategy on the management of state assets was also pointed out by both former Slovenian State Holding authorities, who said that the strategy was poorly written and inadequate. Above all, the strategy adopted under this government does not allow for the ongoing settlement of the legal obligations of the Slovenian State holding company, which was later proved justified by the recapitalisation of EUR 200 million. Also with regard to the State Secretary's statement that there will be no damage to the Slovenian state holding company, we have a different opinion in the Slovenian Democratic Party. The government states that no additional revenue will be taken from the Slovenian State Holding. Revenue will be taken from the Slovenian state holding company, already on the income of the potential dividends of these companies to be transferred. Even on the Committee itself, the Government could not explain exactly which investments would be transferred from the Slovenian State Holding to the Republic of Slovenia. Above all, we are convinced that this manoeuvre, which has been granted by the Government of Mir Cerar, deviates mainly from good practices. It is a fact that we have advocated years ago that it is important that state property is managed from one place and, above all, that ownership of state property be combined. We know from history that there have been different votes at the meetings of society and that all these moves have been mainly due to the negative results of these companies and have also been a minor inflow into the state budget. It is also interesting that the Secretary of State on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy could not explain why this time the Government or the Ministry of Finance did not refer to this amendment to the OECD opinion, which in some cases the Government likes to express. We are convinced that the amendment of the Slovenian Compensation Fund Act is poor, and that is why we will not support it in the Slovenian Democratic Party as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u25	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs. Marija Antonija Kovacič is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Good-bye to all of you! The proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Slovenian Indemnity Fund regulates capital investments which were transferred free of charge to the current SDH, formerly SOS and SOD, in order to pay denationalisation obligations, which were transferred free of charge to the ownership of the Republic of Slovenia. The purpose of the payment was largely met, while the effects of the recapitalisation of SDH in 2016 amounting to EUR 200 million will also be offset. SDH was then in a situation where the investments it owned did not satisfy sufficient resources to pay the legal financial obligations. As a result, the government considered that the most appropriate solution was recapitalisation. The transfer of capital investments to the ownership of the Republic of Slovenia will be gradual in three phases. By the end of this year, SDH will freely transfer the package of strategic and important capital investments traded in the organised market, with a total value of at least EUR 200 million. In the second phase, by 31 December 2020, it will freely transfer the remaining strategically significant capital investments. In the latter phase, after fulfilling all the obligations under the Slovenian Compensation Fund Act, SDH will freely transfer to the ownership of the Republic of Slovenia all the remaining securities it will own. In the latter phase, SDH, in terms of its own-owned investments, could only be financed from its portfolio investments. If the appropriations for the settlement of commitments should also be provided from the appropriations of the budget, the budget appropriations referred to in SDH should be reimbursed after regular sales of portfolio investments. It is therefore a concentration of important and strategic investments of a country with which SDH cannot manage freely under law and do not contribute to the implementation of legal obligations. In the Desus Group, we believe that the amendment introduced by the novel is a step in the right direction, so we will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u27	Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. One more good-bye, everyone! The proposed Act supplementing the Law on the Slovenian Compensation Fund will address the transfer of capital investments owned by the Slovenian State Holding and intended to pay denationalisation obligations, owned by the Republic of Slovenia. This will also answer the question of the remaining financing of denationalisation commitments. With this law in force, the Republic of Slovenia will fulfil the remaining denationalisation obligations, ensure the liquidity of the Slovenian state holding company for the payment of credits and maintain important and strategic investments in its ownership, and the Slovenian State holding company will remain solely competent to manage all investments of the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with its own judgement and in accordance with the law and acts. Up to here everything may sound kind of nice and right and we also welcome the transfer of property from the Slovenian state holding company back to the property of the Republic of Slovenia. This, of course, means, as I said, taking on commitments to denationalisation beneficiaries. However, the legal basis for all these procedures should also be in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. There is no article in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia to speak of state ownership, so there is no legal basis for the adoption of laws relating to state ownership and there is no legal basis for the transfer of state ownership to and from Slovenia. This is a fact that will have to be faced and that we have not been paying attention to since Slovenia's independence. We are not talking about having state property in the constitution, but the constitution is talking about private property. This is how we can talk in this case about the common private property of all citizens and citizens. Both the Government and the National Assembly can manage the common private property of all citizens and citizens alone, cannot sell or, if it already reduces the value of this property, must explain this very clearly to citizens and citizens. All this process, which has taken place in Slovenia since independence, is legally questionable because there is no basis in the constitution for the adoption and implementation of all these laws. In this case, as this law deals with the transfer of ownership from the Slovenian state holding company back to state ownership, while somehow correcting one part of all these procedures, of course the process is not completed, we will therefore support this law, but with the knowledge that there will be a substantial amount of effort to be put into creating a sound basis for the management of our common property.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u29	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr. Joseph Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Madam Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Pursuant to Article 77 of the Slovenian State Holding Act, the Slovenian State Holding took over the powers, duties and obligations of the Slovenian Compensation Society or its predecessor, the Slovenian Compensation Fund. The Slovenian Indemnity Fund Act provides in Article 2 that the Slovenian Indemnity Fund is a financial organisation for the settlement of obligations to beneficiaries under the Denationalisation Act, the Cooperatives Act and other regulations governing the denationalisation of property. The Slovenian Indemnity Fund was later transformed into a Slovenian Indemnity Society and then the Slovenian State Holding took over its powers, including the settlement of denationalisation procedures. The aim of the bill is to ensure that capital investments, which were transferred free of charge to the ownership of the Slovenian Compensation Fund for the purpose of paying denationalisation liabilities for the purpose of a largely completed purpose, namely the settlement of denationalisation procedures, are transferred free of charge from the SDH to the ownership of the Republic of Slovenia. According to the Government, this would also compensate for the effects of the recapitalisation of the Slovenian State holding company in 2016. In its consideration of the law, Members of New Slovenia were mainly disturbed by the proposaler's statement that the settlement of denationalisation procedures was largely completed. In view of all the injustices suffered by persons in the previous system, such claims are inappropriate. Christian Democrats advocate the consistent conduct of property recovery procedures that have been stolen in communism. We do not accept any suggestion that nationalisation in this country is no longer a major problem. The rule of law must work mathematically precisely. By 10 May 2017, a total of 148 denationalisation procedures had been opened. This fact clearly shows that the injustices are still uncorrected. Support for this bill could be useful as a reduction in the importance of the many still open denationalisation process and thus of the victims of nationalisation. It is hard to tell people who have been stolen or violently taken from their property that their problems have been largely eliminated. Who among us do you hope to say this to those who have been stolen by communism? In New Slovenia, we expect that the procedures for redress in the communist system of injustices will continue and will be completed as soon as possible. 25 years is too long. For these reasons, we will not support the proposal for a law supplementing the Slovenian Compensation Fund Act in the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u31	The word is given by the Left Group, Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u32	Thank you for your word. Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! With this law, the government proposes that the state budget, i.e. all citizens, be guaranteed payment of so-called denationalisation compensation. It was not enough that the SOD received a 10% share of all former social enterprises at the time of ownership. It was not enough that Pahor's coalition issued a loan guarantee of EUR 300 million in 2010. No, the SOD, which is named after the new SDH, still has EUR 388 million outstanding loans. At the same time, he expects to have to pay 144 million euros to denationalised people. The government is now proposing to guarantee the budget for these good half billion. Members of the Left will vote against it. People need to be made clear that denationalisation was not a correction of any injustices. Denationalisation has been the empowerment of citizens for the benefit of new capitalists. The property of the Roman Catholic Church, the collaborators of the invader, and the lands that exceeded the land maximum, all of this was transferred after the war to the common social property and there was no place like my predecessor had previously said. This social property could not be acquired by any party official. Support was certainly unfair at times, but at that time it was justified. Social property was the basis for the development of Slovenia from the lagging land from which people migrated mass, to a modern industrial society where 200,000 immigrants moved. Social property provided full employment 35 years after the war of Slovenia, and on the basis of this social property, an economic base was created, from which despite denationalisation, despite the tycunization and literal place of social property we still live today. The consequences of denationalisation were catastrophic. In nature, beneficiaries received € 2.1 billion in assets. They demanded more than 3 billion. They received more than €950 million in bonds, and around €144 million will be received. How did these new owners manage it? If we conclude by the greatest capitalist of the Roman Catholic Church, it is very bad. Not only did the citizens have none of her assets because the church kept the profits to itself. The church has also proved to be an extremely poor master and the greatest tycoon. The Zvon 1 and Zvon 2 holding church and the T-2 company raised 450 million euro of bad loans. For the sake of the tycoon, the Vatican has suspended both Slovenian archbishops. The Maribor archdiocese would have gone bankrupt if it hadn't been saved by the Archdiocese of Graz. For this reason, the Left opposes any transfer of the denationalisation obligations to the budget or to the citizens. If SDH is not capable of paying off the bonds, then the bonds should be haircutd. That's possible, too. In 2013 the government completely cancelled the bonds Do you allow me to read the position of the Left Group? [[…]] Please. And this is where I'm going to extend my minute. In 2013, the Government cancelled the bonds and shares of NLB and NKBM. In particular, it is unacceptable for us to cover church losses on the one hand, pay millions of damages and subsidize the employment of priests and, on the other hand, the church does not practically pay taxes. All contributions to arrows, all payments for masses and rituals are not only untaxed but also completely undetected. The system resembles a money launderer. Only the Ljubljana archdiocese owns 15,000 ha of forests. One more time, however, he pays taxes at the same rates as a small farmer who has only one hectare of forest. This will have to end once, Your Honor, so I repeat, we will vote against it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u33	We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. Decision on the draft law will be made on Tuesday, 26th, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. 9. 2017, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 20. On the day-to-day basis, this is another defence proposal for a law implementing the EU regulation on the review of transactions in securities financing and re-use following a regular procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Gorazd Renčelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The purpose of the proposal is to ensure the implementation of the Transparency Regulation on securities financing and re-use. The main objective of the said European Regulation is to increase the transparency of certain market activities in the non-traditional banking sector. This is mainly the case for securities financing transactions, the re-flagging of these financial instruments and other financing structures with the same economic impact as securities financing transactions. Securities financing and related market activities generate accumulation of leverage, increase pro-cyclicality and interconnection in financial markets. The lack of transparency in this area has so far prevented legislators, regulators and investors from properly assessing and monitoring risks that are similar to banking effects and can also be systemic in nature due to the interconnection of the financial system. The draft law lays down control measures and offences committed by the competent authorities in implementing the provisions of the European Regulation. In the case of Slovenia, it is the Securities Market Agency, the Bank of Slovenia and the Insurance Supervisory Agency. The law empowers competent authorities to impose administrative sanctions and other administrative measures which are effective, proportionate and dissuasive. The law also provides for disclosure of information on control measures and sanctions imposed for offences. We are assessing in the Government that there is a concrete contribution to strengthening financial stability in the European Union, and therefore we propose that the proposal be supported by law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u35	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mrs Urški Ban.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall hold its 41st session. 9. 2017 as a parent labour body, the proposal for a law implementing the Regulation on Transparency of Securities Financing and Re-use, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption. The Committee also received the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the opinion of the Commission of the State Economic, Trade, Tourism and Finance Council. In accordance with Article 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the coalition parliamentary groups have tabled amendments to each article of the bill. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Legal and Legal Service and the Council of State took part in the meeting of the Committee. In the introductory supplementary explanation, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance explained the objectives and solutions of the draft law resulting from the adaptation of the internal legislation of the regulation, which he had already presented earlier. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that the Service had given a written opinion and that most of the comments were taken into account in the amendments tabled, with the exception of the introductory remark of a systemic nature, which would be corrected by the amendment of the Law on Offences. The representative of the Council of State said that the Commission of the State Council was in favour of the proposal for a law, pointing out the need to clarify the provisions governing the powers of supervisory institutions to express measures. The debate raised the issue of the harmonisation of the bill with the other institutions, to which the Secretary of State replied and said that the law was coordinated with the competent institutions. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered and adopted amendments to the coalition parliamentary groups and then voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u37	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, for which Mrs Vlasta Wait.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! The proposal for a law implementing the regulation on transparency of securities financing and re-use will put in place Regulation 2365/2015, which constitutes a response to the identified need to strengthen the transparency of the markets of the financial system. Reasons for drafting the law and not the proposal for a regulation implementing the regulation for a systemic derogation. The draft law provides for fines which derogate from the system framework laid down by Article 17 of the Offences Act for the provision of fines in the Republic of Slovenia. The draft law lays down control measures and offences committed by the competent authorities in implementing the provisions of the Regulation. Member States must ensure that competent authorities have the power to impose administrative sanctions and other administrative measures which are effective, proportionate and dissuasive. By establishing transparency requirements for securities financing and re-use in the form of a Regulation, it is ensured that the requirements of the Regulation apply directly. The point is that, in accordance with the proposal for a law, coordinated action is taken at European Union level. The aggregated data at European Union level provides the necessary macroeconomic picture required to monitor the use of securities financing. For example, investment funds already have an important cross-border dimension, and it is therefore important that investor protection standards are applied equally across the European Union to ensure that all European investors benefit from the necessary transparency regarding the use of securities financing. Managers of collective investment firms will have to include in the report detailed information on the use of securities financing and return swaps in order to enable investors to be aware of the risks associated with their use. For all of this, the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will support the Proposal for a Law implementing the Regulation on Transparency of Securities Financing and Re-use. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u39	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word! Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! In fact, in Slovenia, we are applying this law to a European regulation, a regulation by the European Commission to ensure greater transparency, namely transparency in the shadow banking system, as some call it. This is actually non-traditional banking, this is banking, which is conducted in a non-classical way, and among other things is the financing of securities with different flags, etc. In order for such institutions involved in this to have to keep certain records, it is commendable, in particular because of the crisis in 2009, 2010, which is precisely why. It was created because someone could stop a crop of wheat, let's say today, a crop of wheat in 2022, issued some paper, got money for that crop, bought securities. And then it was a question of what happens if in 2022, for example, there will be no hail and there will be no crop, and what impact this has on the whole business. A few simple things to say. Of course, financial institutions have entangled this in various packages, so they have sold ordinary fog and some promises and false hopes to people. This law also increases penalties for such cases, which should be the responsibility of the Securities Market Agency, the Insurance Supervisory Agency and the Bank of Slovenia. These penalties are enormously high. For example, the three-fold amount of profits, such as the 15% turnover of a given institution. Thus, there is a simple question here about whether there are real penalties here or whether, with such penalties, these financial institutions will simply disappear from the market before they pay for it all. Such major penalties mean, in a number of cases, a flood or otherwise a bankruptcy of this financial institution. That is why the question is whether it is a matter of intimidation or whether it is actually going to happen. I think that at least in Slovenia there is no institution that can actually pay such a penalty without, in my opinion, having such problems as to actually get out of the market. The question is whether these penalties are proportionate. The government considers these to be proportionate penalties. Maybe in their opinion. But we will see what will actually happen. We will not oppose this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u41	The text is given by the Desus Group, Mrs Maria Antonija Kovacic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u42	Once again a very nice greeting to everyone! Thank you for your word, Mr. President. We have before us a bill that we will unanimously support in the Desus Group. The aim of the European Regulation is to strengthen the financial stability of the EU primarily by increasing the transparency of securities financing transactions, reshaping the flag of financial instruments and other financing structures with the same economic impact as securities financing transactions. The proposed measures will make it easier to monitor the accumulation of systemic risks in securities financing, and investors of which funds are used in such transactions will be informed accordingly. Due to the new legislative changes in the banking sector, it is possible for banks to transfer some of their activities to less regulated areas in the form of so-called shadow banking. History teaches us that this has happened many times. Finally, in the late 1990s, when the financial sector was reregulated in the United States, this led to a mortgage credit crisis, which spread around the world due to the strong interconnection of financial markets as a virus. The lack of transparency in the accumulation of financial leverage, pro-cyclicality and interconnection in financial markets has prevented both supervisors and legislators from properly assessing bank risks before the financial crisis. A number of indictees also indicate that some have consciously looked away. In the Desus Group, we are well aware of the social damage that the financial sector has not been adequately regulated, so we will unanimously support the proposal for a law that goes in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u43	Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u44	Thank you for your word and once again a nice greeting to everyone. The proposal for a law implementing the Regulation on the transparency of securities financing and re-use transactions stems in fact from the 2008 financial and economic crisis. At that time, a number of inconsistencies and shortcomings in the financial system have been demonstrated to prevent transparency in securities transactions, including ineffective control and prevention of abuse and prosecution. In the financial field, the European Union has therefore launched a strong reform of legislation that will lay down new rules in the whole of the Union. In doing so, we note that most of the legislation adopted so far has focused mainly on banking legislation and the prevention of future risks in the conduct of credit transactions. Countries have also had to make a major change in the way they plan and manage their finances, but we need to know that the financial sector is significantly broader than the banking sector and the risk of new crises and abuses are also threatening outside the credit and so-called monetary markets. Much of the potential for abuse is in the field of securities, in particular their lending, brokering and temporary sale or redemption. However, it is very important to prevent so-called regulated financial systems, such as large banks and insurance companies, from transferring part of their business to more risky but less controlled areas, which could lead to new crises. Transparency of business in this area is therefore crucial. Since 2013, the recommendations of the Committee on Financial Stability have been adopted at the European Union level, with a framework of as many as 11 recommendations. On the basis of this framework, a Regulation of the European Union was drawn up and adopted in 2015, which is directly applicable in all Member States and is being applied gradually from the beginning of 2016 onwards. In this process of gradual introduction, we have also joined the implementation of this Regulation in Slovenia this year in order to enable the law before us to effectively implement the regulation in Slovenia as well. It also sets out the mandatory disclosure of information on the measures and sanctions imposed, sets out the bodies responsible in Slovenia for the individual tasks prescribed by the Regulation, while also laying down penalties for irregularities which are high and which are bound by European law to the possible illegal advantage obtained, which is also important in terms of preventing future abuses. For all of this, we will support the draft law in the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u45	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr. Joseph Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u46	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Honorable representatives of the government, dear colleagues and colleagues! The reason for the submission of this proposal is the adoption of a European Regulation No. 2365/2015, which represents a response to the identified need to strengthen the transparency of the markets of the financial system. The Regulation was adopted in order to regulate so-called shadow banking, which in the past has effectively escaped the regulations applicable to ordinary, conventional, commercial banks. Now if we focus a little bit on the shadow banking term. This is what we call shadow banking to avoid banking regulations. Shadow banking entities are not real banks, but financial institutions that operate in a similar way to banks with activities and do not receive deposits, which means that they are not treated by the same regulators as traditional banks and therefore can avoid regulation. The shadow banking entities are hedge funds, cash funds, mutual funds and activities such as securitisation and repurchase transactions. It's so-called tail business. In implementing the proposal, the proposer decided on a proposal for a law rather than a regulation because of the systemic derogation in the determination of penalties for offences. The bill sets out the amounts of fines which deviate from the system framework laid down by Article 17 of the Offences Act for the provision of fines in Slovenia and cannot therefore be implemented by means of a sub-legislative act. For the implementation of the European Regulation, the Bank of Slovenia, the Insurance Supervisory Agency and the Securities Market Agency are certainly competent in their field. The proposal for a law hereinafter for infringement of the European Regulation also lays down fines. In New Slovenia, we agree with the objectives and purposes of the European regulation to also prevent shadow banking from avoiding regulation, but the rules should also apply to these entities, to shadow banking entities. In New Slovenia, however, we regret that the applicant did not make clear the amount of fines in the comparable countries of the European Union. In New Slovenia, we will support the proposal for a law implementing the European Union regulation on transparency in securities financing and re-use.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u47	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place on Tuesday, 26th, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. 9. 2017, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. At the end of the day, that is to say the bill on amendments and additions to the Act on the Inspection of the Work after the end of the procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities for Peter Pogačar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u48	Your Honor, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Today, two draft amendments to the Labour Market Act are before you, which are prepared on the basis of analyses by the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. The basic purpose of the document for decent work and the proposal for legislative change before you today is to ensure the decent work of our citizens. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Labour Inspection Act is based on recent analyses of the situation on the market, proposals by the social partners and on the findings of the annual reports of the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for work. The main purpose of the proposal of the Labour Inspection Act is to increase the competence of labour inspectors in the event they find that it is a matter of leisure work. With the proposal to supplement Article 19 of the Law, we have laid down an additional measure by the inspector, by which we authorize the inspector to issue an order on the basis of which the employer must deliver an appropriate contract of employment when the work is not carried out on the basis of a contract of employment. The contract of employment to be offered by the employer must be substantively consistent with the actual situation found, with effect from the conclusion of the employment contract onward. It means that a person who is forced to carry out a recreational work will no longer, as is the case today, have the only opportunity to exercise his right to a contract of employment only in judicial proceedings, but on the basis of the proposed amendment, he will be able to immediately order an inspector to work if he finds that the performance of the work was illegal because it was carried out on the basis of a contract of civil law and not on the basis of a contract of employment. Allow me to explain how the inspector, after this amendment of the law, will be able to order the employer to deliver the relevant employment contract to the staff. In a prohibition decision based on a contract of civil law, the inspector may order that the employer be required to deliver a contract of employment to the person under the established elements of the employment relationship. The worker may conclude this contract no later than three working days after receipt of the written employment contract. If the employer did not respect such a specific measure, the law provides for a monetary sanction for the employer. The proposal for amendments and the amendment of the Labour Inspection Act also introduces the possibility for the inspector to prohibit the performance of the work of workers or the activity where he finds that he has not paid the wages. This is a new reason for the possibility of issuing a prohibition decision, since the infringements relating to payment for work are unfortunately the most frequently found infringements of the Labour Inspectorate since 2009. The Labour Inspector currently does not have the resources available under the current legislation to force employers to act directly, so we propose a solution where, in certain cases, an administrative ban decision can directly affect the conduct of the debtor to remedy irregularities. I would like to point out that all the amendments to the draft Labour Inspection Act that are before you today are fully coordinated between the social partners and in line with the Labour Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia. Dear Members, the eradication of the fine work must be and is our common goal. Harmful work has consequences for both the individual who is forced to work as a chastity and the society as a whole. We believe that the proposed changes will make a significant contribution to the reduction of the penal work in the Republic of Slovenia, to the greater protection of those who are forced into such work, so please support the proposed amendments to the Labour Inspection Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u49	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Uroš Pikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u50	President, distinguished colleagues, respected colleagues. The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons is at its 45th session, 6. 9. Considered the draft law on amendments and additions to the Labour Inspection Act submitted by the Government to the National Assembly with a proposal for consideration and adoption following a reduced procedure. The College of Presidents decided that the draft law on amendments and additions to the Labour Inspection Act should be dealt with in a simplified manner and that the Committee should therefore consider the proposal of this Act on the basis of Rule 142 of our Rules of Procedure. Representatives of the Government, i.e. the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, our Legal and Legislative Services, the Labour Inspectorate, the Chamber of Commerce and Business Slovenia, the Union of Journalists of Slovenia, the Society of the Labour Advisory, the Youth Plus trade unions, as well as representatives of the Council of State. The Committee was given an opinion by our Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the legislative technical aspects and made specific proposals to Articles 1, 2, 3 and 4. The Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons has also received the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, which supports the proposal of the law. It was pointed out in the debate itself that the amendments to the law do not constitute an interference with the labour inspection system or the labour market, but they are essential for more effective supervision of criminal employment and labour payments infringements. In this part, they give additional powers to the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for work, which means that it is very important that the law enters into force as soon as possible, so that new legal powers can be used by the labour inspectors and thus contribute to greater legal certainty for workers. In the debate held on Article 1 and Article 2 governing the possibility of a prohibition decision and a prohibition decision, the position was expressed that a provision allowing for the conversion of undercover working relationships into regular working relationships should also be extended to workers who are deliberately accepted by the debtor from an employer who does not have permission to provide work to users. An employee who has accepted an employee from an undertaking that does not meet the conditions for intervention should therefore offer the employee the conclusion of a contract of employment and the worker would have the opportunity to decide whether or not to accept it. This would protect one of the most vulnerable categories of workers. Some discussers felt that social dialogue had been misused, that there had not been a major debate on fine-tuning workers since they had not been given the right place in this dialogue. That is why they fear – so they stressed – that the novel is a more beautiful correction that will not prevent what is happening in the labour market. In their view, the proposal remains largely flawed in terms of over-reaching and informing workers, as it still does not help workers working through illegal labour agencies. The debaters who supported the law stressed that the proposal is part of a package of labour law and is in line with the social partners. In our view, social dialogue is essential, regardless of certain comments, and the proposal is also in line with the Slovenian Labour Inspectorate. Of course, we cannot go beyond the fact that there is something to be done about the inspectorate's human resources supply in the future. The general conclusion was that the government proposal is good, fully coordinated with the social partners, and that negotiations are under way to amend the Labour Relations Act, which we sincerely hope will be able to reach agreement. After the discussion, the Committee adopted amendments to Articles 1, 2 and 3, but did not adopt the amendment of the Left Group to Articles 2, 3 and 4. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted and pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the text of the amended law, which includes the amendments adopted, is prepared. The amended proposal for this law is an integral part of this report, which I have tried to brief you on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u51	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we regularly monitor workers' rights and also point out all legal irregularities and propose certain legislation. We estimate that the Government is familiar with the proposal for this legislation and is finally late. There are many cases where irregularities have occurred, and there are many cases where these irregularities have not been followed quickly enough and sometimes materially flawed, as the solutions have not proved to be in the overall legislative process as they should actually be. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we do not oppose the additional proposals proposed by the Government, but we point to certain traps. First of all, it is a trap that the inspector, under the proposed legislation, can prohibit the employer's entire work process if he fails to pay twice within 12 months on a payday. Here is the question, we understand the payment day, then it pays the net amount, the question is, what about the contributions, what about the other taxes that the employer actually has to pay. Most infringements, we note, are precisely when employers do not pay social security contributions. Workers later find that these contributions are not paid and therefore do not have an insurance age. This provision remains open in some way, especially since this is a matter of payday and contributions are later collected. The second question is if the inspector determines that he will order the employer to offer the worker a contract of employment, then the question is, what are the follow-up measures to ensure that the employer does not infringe these laws or comes back to the so-called chastity work for some time. There are many cases that we have also dealt with in the National Assembly about the penitentiary work, and there is a lot going on. On one occasion, on the Commission for Public Finance Supervision, we considered, for example, Luke Koper's way of doing business. And there's not even a financial inspection yet in Luka Koper, but I don't know how the work inspection came. Unfortunately, more and more information is emerging about the fact that inspectors too choose very much, who and how to review. And it is also likely that local policy has a certain impact here. Certainly in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not oppose these solutions. Nevertheless, I think they generally provide greater legal certainty. But everything depends on the performance and also on who the Chief Inspector, the Ministry or whoever will be sent to the inspection. Again, some large companies in Slovenia have not been reviewed for 20 years or 25 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u53	The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which the Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members, Members, representatives of the Government and others present! The new law on inspection of work that we have just before us deals with a subject similar to the one we discussed last May. With the aim of increasing labour protection of workers in criminal forms, the issue of covert working relationships is regulated. In the event of a presumptive employment relationship, an inspection officer shall deliver the contract of employment to the worker, as determined by the inspector. In addition, there is a tightening of the sanction against employers in the event that they have not paid wages twice or more within 12 months in accordance with the law governing working relationships. In such cases, the new inspector, by way of an administrative ban decision, may directly affect the employer until the irregularity has been corrected. It is a matter of extending the competence or possibility of acting as an inspector when infringements on the basis of working relationships have been identified. All in order to protect weaker, subordinate customers. In fact, in our position on this novel, I can relate to what we represented in the Desus Group last year, as the facts in the labour market have not really changed significantly to this day. Thus, I can certainly sum up the conclusion at the time that the abuse of workers is still far too much, despite the rather intensive work of labour inspectors and financial administration inspectors. We recognize and realize that some unconscious employers are very resourceful, while workers are already at the starting point as the weaker side exposed to the game Take or leave and thus subject to the potential for exploitation and abuse. When questioned about the survival of man and his family, many do not wonder whether they will take the job through espionage or through another contract, but simply take it away because they have no choice but to do so. Then there's another problem: pay for work. The Labour Inspectorate has observed in a number of years in a row that the biggest infringement on the basis of working relationships is that wages have not been paid in time. Not to mention in the past the massive failure to pay social contributions, which has also been fuelled by insufficient restrictive legislation and the postponement of payments of contributions. In accordance with the provisions of the Constitutional Court, the Pension and Disability Insurance Act does not allow, from the end of 2011, the retention of interest payments and the write-off of contributions to pension and disability insurance paid by employees and employers for their employees. The Constitutional Court, at the initiative of the unions, assessed the constitutional and legal arrangements allowing employers to postpone, pay interest or write off contributions to compulsory pension and disability insurance. Under the Tax Procedure Act, the tax administration, the current Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, decided on such requests. The Constitutional Court has found that such legislation constitutes an anti-constitutional infringement of the worker's property rights and has therefore repealed it. It is unusual that for such a long time governments have not been able to see and remedy the massive violations of labour rights that have stinged in the eyes for many years. The most painful thing is that if wages are not paid, the worker cannot feed his family, late payment of bills, cannot buy medicines, and similarly not to mention the country's damage to huge amounts of taxes or social and health contributions. Infringements of labour rights are being stepped up even in violation of fundamental human rights and freedoms and it is therefore assessed that Member States and Members of the party Desus are in urgent need of action in the legislative field. It is also imperative to strengthen the labour inspectorate itself. For the first time in terms of increasing the number of inspectors. In this regard, we believe that the decision of our Committee on Work, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons will be implemented, in which we have called on the Government to provide more inspectors. Secondly, in terms of strengthening the powers of inspectors when they detect irregularities. This novel follows this, so in the Desus Group we will support the proposal made by the Government with the cooperation and consensus of the social partners. We are aware, however, that there are still a number of open issues in the field of the protection of workers' rights, which will also need to be addressed in legally appropriate ways. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u55	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mrs Marija Bachič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Hello, everyone in the hall! Today we have on the table an amendment to the Labour Inspection Act for decent work, which regulates the area of work and working relations. The new law does not interfere with the system of labour inspection, but the solutions it brings are essential for more effective control of fine jobs and infringements of payment for work. Inspectors are given additional powers, all with the aim of protecting the worker and his rights. The amendment regulates two key critical areas: non-payment of employers' employment obligations and weak protection of workers in atypical forms of work, we are talking about so-called false self-employed. The proposed amendment to the Inspection Act provides more effective supervision of fines and labour payments violations by giving additional powers to the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for work. The inspectors will also be given the opportunity to issue an optional prohibition decision in cases where the debtor does not pay wages twice or more in accordance with the provisions of the payment day, as laid down by the law governing working relationships, within a period of 12 months. Until now, only a sanction could be imposed on perpetrators of such unfair practices, which did not have a frightening effect, except that the envisaged sanction would deter them from doing so and they continued to do so. We hope that today, when inspectors receive new tools into our hands, we will end this. The inspectors shall also be empowered to issue an additional measure in the event that the work is not carried out and the contract of employment should be used. In such cases, the new inspector will also have the possibility to issue to the employer, in addition to the prohibition decision, an order according to which the latter would have to deliver an appropriate written contract of employment to the worker within three working days following the finding of irregularities. Otherwise, a fine may be imposed. We are aware that these two solutions in the amendment of the law are only a step towards greater legal certainty for workers, but this is an important step, an urgent step that must be followed by a new one. The creativity of some, of course not all, nor the majority, but despite the existing unfair employers, knows no boundaries. Therefore, this area, the area of worker protection, needs to be continuously monitored, and it is appropriate to respond to such and other anomalies that occur. We will support the law in our parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u57	The word is given by the New Slovenia Group of Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u58	Dear President, Honourable Secretary of State, Fellow Members and Fellow Members! Slovenia is not the only country with difficulties in ensuring effective control over compliance with labour law, but these cases are, unfortunately, particularly difficult, even exceptional. We can hardly believe what examples of exploitation of workers, domestic and foreign, we have been facing since the 21st century. The new law brings changes in two essential areas: more effective supervision of criminal employment and violations of payment for work. Applicants want to do this primarily by granting additional powers to the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for work, and Christian Democrats believe that this can be the first step, but can by no means succeed with the human resources support of the inspectorate we are witnessing to. Several labour inspectors must be employed and properly trained for this work. There should also be a change in the manner in which the inspectorate works. The public secret is that the small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, the family companies, are the most affected by the Inspectors. Logically, it's the easiest thing to do. Infringement is mostly in large, large companies, including state-owned companies. And it's no secret that inspectors don't even get in. Thus, dear colleagues, we will not make the necessary changes. The work of the courts should also be improved by additional powers of the Inspectorate. If the processes of flight and flight are not completed, the exploitation of workers shall not be granted access to rights. When we talk about workers' rights, it is the concern of all of us that their rights are respected and that they receive a fair payment for their work. In New Slovenia, to improve the situation of workers, we propose a reduction in the tax burden and a rise in basic income relief to levels, as is the case in comparable successful European countries, which, unfortunately, has not been heard so far. At the same time, we believe that the exploitation of workers should be strictly sanctioned. A socio-market economy such as Germany, for example, can be our model. The proposal for amendments to the law will be supported by Members of the New Slovenia, but we remind the Ministry of several hearings about the comments of the Chamber of Commerce, in particular in the area of late payments. The craftsmen point to the great non-discipline of payments in Slovenia, which may affect the timely payment of workers' benefits. In any event, the law should provide for the possibility of flexibility in exceptional cases. However, this law is an opportunity for us to take the first step together towards greater dignity for workers who are too often exploited and weaker in the labour market.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u59	Mr Luka Mesec will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u60	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. If I had to express our position in two words, I would say that what the Government is proposing today is too little and too late. Why is it too late? Because what the coalition will accept today, the labour inspectorate proposed to the government two years ago. The Ministry received a proposal for a work inspection at the table on 5 June 2015, we have a document, but the law was not sent to the public debate until November 2016. In the meantime, we put in a similar law twice in Levica. The coalition could have proposed what it proposes today on both occasions with the amendments, and it has not done so. We could discuss the reasons long and wide, but the consequences are essential. The team Anje Kopač Dark, which proposed a defective law in 2014, took three years to correct this error. During these three years, the labour inspectorate did not have sufficient authority to protect the forced espas. She could have imposed penalties, but as we have heard before, she could not have been able to have the perpetrators of this forced espionage actually hired her. This happened sometimes, let's say on RTV, but it wasn't due to inspection, it wasn't to the legislation, it was to the criminal workers and the unions. Like I said, this marriage came too late, and it wasn't just a phrase. The ministry's postponement had negative consequences for the fine-tuning workers, i.e. those who should be protected by the Ministry after their duties. Unfortunately, the only problem is not that the marriage came too late, but also, as I said, that it offered too little. It doesn't solve the problems of all penitentiaries. Social dumping has several forms. One form is forced espionage, which we all know well. The company should hire the worker, but instead, ask him to open the espa and then hire him as a self-employed entrepreneur. This prevents the company from paying the hospital, the regression, and espoia can be discharged overnight and without a pension. Since it does not pay employers’ contributions, it also damages the health and pension allowance, so it is only right that the inspector directs such an employer to hire the worker. That's settled in marriage now. But in Slovenia there are a number of other penitentiaries, which the law does not save. These are mainly workers from illegal labour agencies, i.e. companies that illegally intercede with workers. They are the most famous example, as we have already heard, of port service providers in Luka Koper. But it's just the tip of the iceberg. Similar yeast agencies operate in Adria Airways Technology, including the infamous Marof Trad. Companies like Luka Koper don't cooperate with these quasi agencies because they wouldn't know it's illegal. On the contrary, they cooperate with them precisely because their workers are cheaper. They are not paid under collective agreements, there is no limitation on overtime, there is no time limit on forgiveness. In this case, too, not only workers are injured, but also a country that in this way loses a lot of social and pension contributions. This is why, for the third time in this mandate, Levica is proposing that we include a guardian in the law for these workers as well. We suggest simply that the inspector who discovers illegal agency work should be ordered by the user, in this case not by the IPS, but by Luke Koper, that he should hire the workers. We don't propose automatic employment. All we are proposing is that the worker be able to get rid of the dependence on the owner of the illegal agency, from the “lord”, as they are told in Cyprus, and that workers get the same rights as those already employed in the parent company. Similar solutions are being taken for forced espas today. And there's no reason she wouldn't be for any of the other penitentiaries. What we are proposing has happened several times in practice in Slovenia: on RTV, in LTH Castings, in Magneta Ljubljana, where workers from illegal agencies were hired. All we are proposing is that now this will no longer depend on the good will of employers, but that it becomes mandatory under law. Finally, what we are proposing is already in force in France and Italy. If our amendments are not adopted, we will not support this law, because we do not support cosmetic corrections and will not give legitimacy to half-hearted solutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u61	Mr Mirjam Bon Klanjšček will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all present! We have before us a new law on the inspection of work that we've been looking forward to. We therefore welcome the Government's decision to finally extend to the competent inspectors the legal powers that will allow for more effective control of criminal employment and infringements of payments for the work done. However, we lack more courage in this regard for the position of a worker who is a weaker party in this relationship. At the June session, the proposal of the Levica Group was rejected, which, in our view, dealt with the issue in a more appropriate manner. Although we believe that the bill is a step in the right direction, it is, as has already been said, too ambitious, because we know that the possibilities for significantly improving the situation in the labour market are considerable. A successful prosecution of offenders requires the appropriate powers of the competent inspection authorities to provide adequate control and sanction of offenders. The inspector should therefore, in the event that the employer finds that the posted worker has been accepted by an illegal agency, issue a decision on employment. In our view, the narrative decision issued by the inspector in such a case does not address the issue sufficiently. The same is true in cases where there are hidden employment relationships. In such cases, the inspector shall also rule on the prohibition. This again penalizes a worker who was usually forced into such employment at the time of his employment and, by the decision of the inspector, is still unemployed. We are missing all this in the law in the Group of Non-Aligned Members, and it would also be right to ensure an increase in the number of inspectors. Despite some of the shortcomings of this law, we will support the amendment of the law in our parliamentary group. In doing so, we stress that it is high time that this issue is fully and concretely addressed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u63	Ms Irena Grošelj Košnik will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u64	Thank you, Vice President! Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Although the labour market situation is improving significantly, the report of the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia on work for 2016 shows that the number of infringements of labour law does not fall. Labour inspectors face increasingly complex cases. We are witnessing an increase in hidden employment relations, which is also evidence of the number of detected violations of the labour ban under civil law contracts in cases where there are elements to the labour relationship. Infringement of labour legislation puts workers and employers in an unequal position and the worker is increasingly a weaker party. Effective action by inspectors is therefore crucial here. The Inspectorate shall supervise the implementation of the law and of the sub-legislative acts relating to those involved in the labour market. Despite the very presence of labour law violations, due to the improvement of the labour market situation, the Labour Inspectorate notes that the market has become more active in the last few months, that we are now facing a shortage of labour and that employers are increasingly turning primarily to the Employment Service for the new labour force. Compared to previous years, the situation has largely improved at the expense of the Government's actions. In particular, it is positive that workers who have worked in unsustainable situations and who have been victims of exploitation are now easier to switch jobs. We have already discussed the solutions envisaged in today's amendment to the Labour Inspection Act twice in the National Assembly. Both novels were rejected because they were not prepared in cooperation and with the consent of the social partners. Nevertheless, we have already agreed that the state of compliance with labour law in Slovenia is worrying and that the problem of increasing the number of hidden employment relationships or criminal work and the illegal exploitation of workers must be limited and effectively regulated. Amendment of this legislation, which regulates the inspection of work by allowing labour inspectors to have more powers, is necessary. It is also essential that we strive for constructive social dialogue. The government has therefore taken a step towards making changes in this legislation in a way that has led to the formation of a negotiating group of social partners. In the context of the social dialogue, the Government initiated the drafting of amendments to the Labour Inspection Act, the Labour Relations Act and the Labour Market Regulation Act and reached agreement with the social partners on labour inspection and labour market regulation on 7 June. These two novels, coordinated with the social partners and adopted by the Government, are being discussed today. Although negotiations between the social partners are still under way with regard to the amendment of the Labour Relations Act, this novelty is very important but is not yet in the parliamentary process. However, it is good that two of the three novelties in the package of labour law can be addressed at this meeting. We are very aware of the importance of compliance with this legislation. As we see social dialogue as an important value, we want to take an active approach to addressing the growing number of undercover labour relations and the illegal exploitation of workers, so Members of the Modern Centre Party will support the amendment to the Labour Inspection Act that we are considering today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u65	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 20. 9. 2017. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I'm guessing yes. Mr. Luka Moon, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u66	Thank you for your word and a nice hello. First of all, I'm going to explain once again what Levika is proposing. I have concluded my position by saying that this is a half-solution, and I mean it quite seriously. The law drawn up by the Ministry only solves the situation for forced espionage, but not for other penitentiaries, especially for people who work through illegal labour agencies. That maybe for those of you who haven't been on the board and you haven't heard what we've been talking about, I'll explain it more in plastic. Forced espaci, we all know what they are. Forced espas are people who, say, go to the employer and he tells them that I will hire you, but I will not give you a contract of work for a certain period of time or for regular work, but open espas and I will hire you as an espa. In this way, the employer avoids paying the contributions because the only thing he pays is that he has to agree with the espionage to pay him the 400 euros, as much as the espé has to pay the state's own contributions. This harms the worker because there is no limitation on overtime, there is no leave, no time limits, and so on and so on, and this also damages the country because it loses its social security contributions. This part of the law is now as regulated as it is and we have warned of this entire mandate that this needs to be regulated. On the other hand, we have an even worse case. And these are penitentiaries who work through illegal agencies. If I can think of another case, it's Luke Koper's case. On the committee a few months ago, we heard from the members of the Porte Koper Supervisory Board that Luka Koper employs 70% of its workforce through the so-called IPS. So, only 30% of the workers are employees, everyone else is hired. These port service providers are on paper companies offering transhipment. So, loading containers on ships and stacking containers off the ship. But what these port service providers are really doing is sending Luke Koper to the workers who are doing this job. So these are not the companies that offer the service, these are the agencies for the intervention of the work. They offer nothing but a worker with their bare hands to do some work. And that's all they do. Next. We have learned that Luka Koper paid 22 million euros to this agency only last year, and according to FURS data, as many as 11 million euros were lost in some grey economy there. It's just one case like this. We have therefore demanded that the matter be regulated by the same analogy as that of forced espions. If the director comes to Luka Koper and there sees that the people are posted by an illegal labour agency, he should order Luka Koper to hire these workers normally. This would give them security and thus give the country a contribution payment, which would result in a variety of "bodies", the owners of these agencies, cutting off the likely ten million amounts they receive each year at the expense of the exploitation of workers and being lost in their grey economy. This case, I think, is illustrative enough that we should understand why their situation should also be regulated. If I tell you that information. Three million euros is to be lost only from Luka Koper at the expense of social, health and pension contributions, because this way Luka Koper as a company avoids paying contributions. This is the content of our amendment and we propose it. We have proposed this for the third time in our mandate, and we hope that today the amendment will also be adopted. But I do have a question for the Ministry. If you answer now that you are not ready to accept this amendment – do you have an alternative solution for workers from these quasi agencies? Once again, what we are proposing is not contrary to any constitutional order, nor to the European order. Such a solution, identical, already exists in France and Italy, as I have already said in my position. So much for a start. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u67	Anyone else want to discuss this point and the amendment? Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Peter Pogacar, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u68	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members and Members! The proposal by the amendment of the Left Group, which is before you, as the MEP of the Moon rightly said, has been dealt with several times in the past at the National Assembly's home committee. We are all aware that the problem with infringements of the rights of workers in companies working with another user is a problem. We are all aware that in the past we have had major problems in the field of agency work. That is why this government has adopted new rules in this mandate on the functioning of labour intervention agencies. It has strengthened the conditions for the establishment of these agencies. Any agency providing work shall be authorised by the Ministry of Labour, which may also be withdrawn by the Ministry of Labour in the event of any amendment of the legislation. Let me just say, if we are talking about agencies, if we had more than 210 job intervention agencies before the amendment of the Act on the Functioning of Labour Intermediation Agencies, these agencies are now more than half less. And they respect all the legislation even according to the findings of the labour inspector. The second thing we have done to regulate the area that is most important, the field of agency workers, with the Labour Relations Act, is to make it clear that workers working with the user through the agency have to have exactly the same rights as those working directly with the employer. However, not only legal rights, including those under collective agreements in entrepreneurship, must be fully aligned with those workers under collective agreements. The problem you are addressing here, which we agree that, honourable Member of the Moon, is a problem, but it is not in agency workers. It is a matter of when work is done with a user and it is an intervention of work, and it is not carried out by an agency authorised by the Ministry of Labour and entered into a register and these employees in that company are not agency workers subject to the same rules under the Labour Relations Act. That's the question. However, there is a key breach here in the fact that the elements of the intervention of workers by an illegal agency are given. So it's not an agency at all, it's a company that doesn't have the Ministry of Labour. There's a violation. And here the Labour Inspectorate must discover it and also discover it and have every opportunity in the law, and even in practice it has already happened that, first of all, it has prohibited such an intervention of work because it has found that it is an illegal intervention of work, it has banned both the user and the service provider, which is also subject to a high sanction, which is also imposed. And here's the breach. The intervention of workers in this country may be carried out only through registered labour intervention agencies authorised by the Ministry of Labour. However, your proposal does not address this issue, as this issue is obviously also, according to your assessment, properly regulated. It raises the question that those workers who work in this company are automatically contracted to work with the user. This, in our opinion, means, in the Ministry of Labour, that it is not systemically correct. The fact is that those workers have a contract of employment for this company, and the problem is that it is part of the intervention of the work and is not implemented through the agency. You have given an example of a particular company where such issues are concerned is the intervention of work. I can tell you that in this particular company, the labour inspectorate has exercised control, issued a decision against which the complaint was lodged. The Ministry rejected the complaint and the dispute is currently pending before the court. However, it refers exactly to whether in this particular company, which you referred to in the explanation of the amendment, the elements of the intervention of the work are given. The Ministry’s position as second-degree authority has attached to the work inspector’s decision that it is a matter of intervention and that it must be carried out only through registered labour intervention agencies, which would mean that, should the court so require, it will only be possible for them to have the status of the Agency’s workers, thereby guaranteeing them the same rights as those directly employed in the company. Again, our assessment is that the amendment tabled by the Levica Group is not appropriate because the actual infringement in the case referred to in the explanatory note is that the elements of the intervention of workers not carried out through an agency authorised by the Ministry of Labour and registered in the Agency Register are given. Here is the breach and here again, I repeat, the properly regulated work measures of the Inspectorate, which are being implemented in practice, even in this particular case, which you mentioned, are also being implemented. The Inspector has the possibility of a prohibition decision, it is said to immediately suspend such work, have the possibility of very high sanctions, and there have been several such cases in practice. What an alternative – if you have already challenged me with this question. The alternative solution is what we have already adopted; it is said that the conditions have been tightened, who can even perform agency work, what are the conditions for the Agency to operate, and strict control that where the elements of workers' intervention are given, inspectors should detect, highly sanction and immediately prohibit the continuation of such activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u69	Mr. Luka Moon, please have another word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u70	Thank you for saying that again. I have to challenge you. In fact, the solutions you have proposed are not sufficient. First of all, it's clear that the punishments don't work. The number of infringements detected by the inspection shall not be reduced but increased. Those are not just my words, that is what Ambassador SD Mrs Bachič said before me. If I quote quite directly, it was said that “the punishments have no dissuasive effect, the offenders, despite being punished, continue with illegal practices”. Well, punishment isn't enough. Secondly, the inspectors only discover the tip of the iceberg and the companies that are open complain about it. Here I'm going to illustrate to you the Luke Koper case again. By hiring workers from an illegal agency for the intervention of work – I see that we agree that these are illegal agencies – it is also an offence. Indeed, they knowingly violate this Article of the Labour Market Regulation Act, which is Article 166 of this Act, which states that the user can only accept workers from an undertaking registered in the Ministry. So, who has a license to serve as an agency for the intervention of work. However, Luka Koper hires almost exclusively his employees in a port in an agency that does not have this license and is in violation of it. When the inspector detects illegal labour intervention, he issues a restraining order and imposes a penalty on both offenders, namely Luke Koper and the IPS. This happened last year in the Encon case. You probably know this case. But then Encon didn't complain about the decision, he didn't complain about the boss, he said he was a port service provider, he was Luke Koper. Now you're saying the violation should be remedied by Luke Koper. But look, Luka Koper can't get permission to intervene instead of this agency, Luka Koper can't place a bank guarantee instead of Encon, but it can fix the situation in the most normal way, it's easy to enable the employee to work. Here I repeat, this is not a violation of the rule of law, nor of the European one, because there is an identical solution in France and Italy, and today you accept an identical solution for forced espas, which are in a similar relationship to those of the criminal workers I describe. Next. The problem is, even if an inspection sanctions this, it doesn't change the situation. One such company was banned in Luka Koper, but others are working on it, and some of the workers who were previously employed by the company that received the ban decision simply came back to work within a week via other bosses; they are said to have been hired by other illegal labour agencies. When we asked the committee about what was going on, the inspector and the minister replied that in this case we were waiting for the Administrative Court's decision on Luke Koper's appeal. But we've been asking around, and it looks like we're gonna be waiting a long time. The dispute was launched on 19 January and on 28 August, more than 8 months later, the courts informed us that the matter was at the stage of the exchange of applications. So in seven, eight months, we got to the deposit exchange phase. So effective is the control you're trying to control. So your answer is: an inspection, a sanction, but then everything breaks down when someone complains, or breaks down early because the company that gets the restraining order just moves its workers to another boss and they come back. It's not a solution, and it's also a state of affairs, so I keep saying, in Luka Koper, because there's something going on in front of you about what's wrong with such a solution. And there's no other solution than what we're proposing; it's easy for us to have Luke Koper hire you. As I said before, some companies in Slovenia have done this on their own. We also invited Luka Koper to the committee, here in Parliament, I personally called on the supervisors to order the administration to hire workers working through port service providers. Here I repeat, of the more than 900 people who work in Luka, but their number is slightly fluctuating, 700 of them work through IPS. So they're 70% of the work they can't plan. That's their excuse. They are not able to plan 70% of the work and therefore have to hire temporary workers. Then we said, well, if the administration isn't better able to plan work than 70% of the work is unplanned, change the administration. But that's what's going to happen. The only way to solve this is to legally impose not only on Luke Koper, but on all such companies, so that workers can normally be employed. In the second part, of course, I agree with you. If someone is hiring a temporary job, let them do it through a legal agency, but unfortunately we are in a state where there are too many marriage holes to rely on this solution. If you issue a restraining order to an illegal agency to intervene, the problem will stop in court for a while and workers will be employed through another illegal agency to intervene. It's a current, unfortunately, practice. I therefore stress once again that there is no other solution than to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u71	The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Mr Peter Pogačar, answers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u72	Thank you for your word. Thank you, too, Mr Mesec, for this debate. See, in the specific case you are referring to, it is precisely a dispute over the question of when it comes to the intervention of the work of workers to the user and when it comes to the provision of a service. The position of the labour inspector, who has exercised control and performed his function, is that in this particular case it is a typical intervention of work which could only be carried out through a registered agency registered with the Ministry of Labour. This would mean that they are employed in this company, have the status of agency workers and their rights are fully equal to those of employees in the parent company. There's a conflict here. Against this decision of the labour inspector, this specific employer lodged a complaint. The Ministry, I think, has attached a decision of the Labour Inspectorate within the time limit for the decision at step 2 to the decision of the Labour Inspectorate and is now in a legal dispute against it because this particular undertaking does not agree with the findings of the Inspectorate and the Ministry of Labour in this case that it is an intervention of work which could only be carried out through labour intervention agencies. We should also be aware that, if the trial is to be concluded as soon as possible and personally I wish that, for the benefit of all workers in that company and in those companies, this will also constitute a very important case law, which the inspectors will take unconditionally into account and will also be required by employers. This is going to be very important. We, too, if you want, the Ministry of Labour as a secondary body, have the same opinion that if the elements of intervention are given, they can only be done through agencies. But with this proposal that you are proposing - if you can be very specific, your proposal is that if the elements of the intervention are given, then the workers will automatically become employed at the parent company - we have not yet solved the problem of whether it is the elements of the intervention of the work. In the case of labour intervention elements, it can only be carried out through labour intervention agencies and can only be done by agency workers. At the same time, you did not arrange for the amendment in your proposal, and how the contract of employment in that company ends. Last but not least, these people, these workers in that company are employed, either they stop or then they have two jobs at the same time, these are the questions. However, it is crucial – and here I think it is not among us who do not wish such violations to occur – but it is crucial that we ensure that the intervention of workers is carried out only through agencies authorised by the Ministry of Labour which are registered on the basis of which agency employees are agency employees and are fully equal in their rights and obligations to workers in the parent companies. We all have to work here. And this is what the Inspectorate does, has the possibility of a restraining order, high monetary sanctions and all procedures in this regard, both at the supervisory level and later in court, are attached in this direction. Therefore, it is crucial that we cannot support the amendment because the infringement in the case referred to in the explanatory memorandum does not mean that these people would not have a contract of employment, as in the case of custodial work, have a contract of employment, but they do have a contract of employment with an undertaking which is not registered as an agency. What can an inspector do? Instruct such an undertaking to immediately cease this activity and the parent undertaking to cease its business with such an agency. Thus, a key infringement is not that workers would not be employed; it is a key infringement that this is an intervention of work that is not carried out through a registered intervention agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, does anyone else want to discuss this subject? I can see that. Please sign up. Mr. Uroš Prikl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u74	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! First, a brief observation. I see that less than 20 members of the National Assembly are interested in the content of the Labour Inspection Act, which I am assessing as still important. What does this marriage bring? He's bringing in two. Firstly, it penalises all those inadequate – I don't know what other adjective would use here – employers who use it – I have been written here by professional workers who write atypical forms of employment, I would call this adjective forms of employment or employment to maximize their profits – and, of course, intervenes in the area that every employee, every worker, gets a proper payment for his proper work. The prohibition decision that an inspector may issue when he finds that they are elements of a working relationship and the following is the order ordering that an employee should be given a contract of employment, I think it is important and important that a step forward is a step that will certainly bring improvements in this area. On the Labour Committee, when we talked – and now I don't exactly remember who said that – it was said that it was not a dick or a mouse. I don't think that's such additional powers as an inspectorate must be a step in the right direction. The second point is the Inspectorate's mandate, or the Inspectorate's mandate, to issue a decision in this case and to give a reasonable sanction to the employer. Here I do not wish for any small solution if any day or two late payments are paid to be the most rigorous sanctions, but there are many, many such employers who have become the practice that forgets that employees have worked hard or work hard with them, but when the moment of truth comes, I will tell them when they need to be paid a reward or a reward for it, a payment – a decent payment for the work done, not a reward, I apologize – and then I forget all of this. I think that these two new moments, brought by the Labour Inspection Act, are to be welcomed, and therefore, as colleague Biszakova said in the position of the Group of Members, we will, of course, support this law. There's one more thing I'd like to point out. Of course, this is not the one and only law that will improve the situation in the labour market. There will certainly be another point of the Labour Market Regulation Act, which also has some positive moments and will improve the situation of workers, and we look forward to the harmonised Labour Relations Act, which I think may be even more important than all the rules already mentioned – I will not say that this is a top law, but one of the most important. I believe that this law will be coordinated between all social partners, that individual impatient people will not abandon social dialogue if they do not, as was the case with this law, and that businesses and those entrepreneurs who care about their business and their employees will find that not everything is not to maximize their profits, exhaust workers, use these practices of convenience and exploitation, but that there is also something to be done to satisfy their employees and, of course, reward them for their proper work. That's it. Today, I expected Luke — perhaps if Kordish were here — to mention that I was the one who, in the absence of the law on inspection of the work filed by the Levic, would say that I would not back this law then and that if the government did not come with the law by the end of last year, I would file this law myself. Of course I didn't do it, but I do believe that in some ways this tiny pressure on my part meant that we are in this marriage today. I am sure that we will accept it, which is also the most important in the final stage. He's probably not perfect. There's probably something else we can do. During the implementation, it will be determined where it will be improved if, as it is said, it is in the course of implementation. I would like to say that this has also been exposed to the labour body itself, that social dialogue is very important here. Very important. I think he needs to be cared for, respected and listened to. Only then can we bring legislation that will drink water and that will be useful and fair to all involved in the final stage. This law is an example of this; this law is an example of consensus between the social partners and all such laws can only be welcomed. However, I would like, for the first time, that perhaps, it is not possible that this pace is definitely going a little faster and if such and other legitimate and legal pressures on individual players in this area are also required. I would like to hear this debate between my colleague the Moon and the Secretary of State, an even greater focus, an even greater focus on the conditions of operation and the registration of agencies for the intervention of works. Personally, I would like these agencies not to be, I would like it not to be necessary for practically no outside hiring of workers to be integrated into individual companies, but if the ministries are serving this – and to the enormous extent of external contractors, external advisers, external advisers, what else – I do not think we as a state are really setting a good example for the real sector. That's what I'd like. The Inspectorate, who agrees, welcomes this law, as has been said, would, of course, want to be rigorously, harshly, without any restrictions, whether it is a small company, a micro enterprise, a large company, all of them — but regardless of which territory of Slovenia it comes from, regardless of who its owner is, regardless of how the director of this company writes — that it strictly and consistently implements the laws and all those who commit them are, of course, punished. With regard to additional employment, I know we have taken this decision unanimously on the Labour Committee; I would like to welcome 150 new jobs. Of course, I would like us to look at another organ. Here I may have, as the first “on-the-spot” financial administration of the Republic of Slovenia, a body that is simply a cadre there, without doubt, I am not sure that it has been fully exploited – I apologize, optimally exploited – to be used here easily, perhaps with some additional education and to carry out the tasks of the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for the work which, however we are addressing the matter, we have heard this several times before, human resources are undernourished. Of course, it's not all about providing personnel. I'm sure if we strengthen the Human Resources Inspectorate for 80 percent, there won't be 80 percent more efficiency. However, I believe that this decision will also come true. By law, I am sorry that we are barely voting on it on Tuesday; I want a good traveller in the law, because if it is implemented consistently, I think that in a year or two we will not be able to talk to such anomalies on the labour market in any way and with such an anomaly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u75	Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm guessing yes. Mr. Luka Moon, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u76	Thank you for your word. I'll answer Mr. Pogacar one more time. In your debate, you don't want to understand that the company that hires these workers is an accomplice. So, Luke Koper, when he hires workers through IPS, he's a co-conspirator. And the complainant in the court case we're talking about isn't the IPS, he's Luke Koper. They complained. Therefore, they should be instructed to arrange the matter as it goes. Let them hire these people in a normal way, but they're avoiding it, they're complaining. Now they'll obviously be delaying in the lawsuit, probably investing a lot of money in the fact that the jurisprudence that you want to establish, or on which you expect it to be established, will fail. What if this case falls? You are counting directly on what you told me, so that the case will show that the Labour Inspectorate is right and that judicial practice will be established, which will allow you to begin to regulate this area systematically. What if that doesn't happen? That's my first question. Second. You're telling us that we haven't arranged in our amendment what happens to a worker who's employed, say, with a port service provider and the Inspectorate discovers that he should at least be intervened through an intervention agency, and that's not it, and then we say that the inspector has to charge Luka Koper, who hired him, to hire the worker. You're saying that we didn't arrange for him to be employed now both in the IPS and in Luka Koper. I don't know if you've read our amendment, but we, upon warning, have complemented and said that if a worker accepts a job in Luka Koper, his employment with an illegal agency is terminated. I also point out this because I will once again say that we have been waiting for this solution for three years. The law we are discussing or the regulation currently in force was adopted in March 2014. Six months later, the work inspectorate had already warned that it should be repaired because it was defective, but the ministry was stalling. It was put into public debate only after a year and a half and since the public debate started in November 2016, it took another year and a half to come to the National Assembly with this law in general. So it took three years for us to start talking about the elimination of some eccentric violation of social and labour rights, which is taking place in front of us in one of the largest state-owned companies, Luka Koper; in a parade horse, as they say. Not only have we come to this after three years, the whole thing has become a subject of tied trade. Let me remind you what your ministry did. You did not arbitrarily bring this law, but you tried in the union's social dialogue — all of you, the whole government, not just the ministry — to force the unions to accept a new form of forgiveness in exchange for the regulation of this area, this is a collective job failure. Thus, we would practically skip the severance payments imposed under the current law and the cancellations and so on. More! In exchange for the Labour Inspection Act and the Labour Market Regulation Act, you promised employers in June this year that coalition Members would vote against the amendment to the Minimum Wages Act, which we have tabled in Levica. The coalition then voted, of course, on Jan Škobernet's proposal, that our law was not suitable for further consideration. In these cases, I am reminding you because they point to duality and the unwillingness to regulate labour and social rights. I also point out that, at the end of the day, the President of the Social Democrats, Dejan Židan, recently in an interview with Youth, has specifically pointed out that, under his leadership, if elected, the new government would, of course, want to participate in the coalition with Levica in the area of regulation of social rights, the elimination of poverty, minimum wages. But everything that's been proven so far is going directly towards it. Our proposal for minimum wage has been rejected; the Labour Inspection Act has taken us three years to discuss a half-way solution; the Labour Market Regulation has increased the repression, as we will discuss at the next point, the unemployed and the slow loss of patience and hope that something will really change. That is why I ask you once again, Mr Secretary; under the provision we have described – that is to say, we have solved the problem to which you point – the worker will not then have two employment contracts, but will, if the offender who hired an illegal agency to intervene, employ him, his old working relationship with this illegal agency of labour intervention runs out and then has a normal working relationship according to all the standards that apply in a company and even ultimately in our legal order and the social system. Are you now prepared to support this amendment and why not?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u77	Mr. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. Mr Mesec, I will answer your questions concerning the agenda, this is the Labour Inspection Act. I guess we didn't get along so well. You have warned that today the user, a real company that hires an illegal agency that hires an entity, should have a registered agency because it is elements of the intervention of the work so that this user is not sanctioned. Of course it doesn't. This user, who has entered into a service contract, is also sanctioned and the elements of labour intervention are given, and has concluded with a company which does not have the Ministry of Labour's permission to be an agency, and consequently workers are not workers. Why is it so important to stress it again? It is because in the Labour Relations Act to protect agency workers that if a worker is employed by an agency for the intervention of work, he is fully equal in his rights and obligations to those employed by the user, if you wish, in the parent company. Once again, the Labour Market Regulation Act, which we adopted in the National Assembly, I think, in 2013, it explicitly sets out who can carry out the labour intervention activity. It also imposes sanctions on this company, with a sanction of up to EUR 30 000. Once again, your amendment has a good purpose. We're all in favour of an end to exploitation if it's present, and you claim it is, and I believe that unfortunately it happens sometimes. That is why we have introduced rules on agencies, agency work rules and rules on the situation of agency workers. The problem or problem is that in this case the user or this company – I can call it that – and it is not the only one – does not want to admit that it is the elements of the intervention of the work, but claims that it is the ordinary provision of the service. There is this conflict, and it must be resolved primarily. However, if you ask me about your amendment's comment on the termination of the employment contract - we did not understand each other very well. In fact, you write that by concluding a new employment contract with the previous employer, I would like to point out that this is in breach of the Labour Relations Act, which is the basic law for employment contracts which provides for legal ways of terminating the employment contract. That's all I wanted to say. Once again, honourable Members, honourable Members, the breach in the case of the amendment of the Left Group is not that these workers would not have a contract of employment and would urgently need a new one. Infringement is that work is carried out through a company which does not have a Ministry of Labour permit, which is not registered as an agency, by workers who are not agency workers and should have the same rights as employees by law. This infringement needs to be resolved and the inspector has legally regulated options for action, and appropriate sanctions are also provided for. Finally, I propose once again that you do not support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Luka Moon, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u80	Thank you for saying that one last time. I'll do it again. In the case under consideration, the person who hired an illegal agency for the intervention of work, Luke Koper, complained. The Court cannot, in its order, order Luka Koper to obtain permission for the contractor through whom he hired these workers to become a legal agency for the intervention of the work. There's a problem! The case law you are counting on cannot be established in this case. Secondly, what we propose — I will say again — is in force in a practically identical way in France and Italy. If you now say that the problem with the old working relationship is that the old working relationship with the illegal agency of intervention of work is, after all, it can be legally null and void if we decide to do so. Well, this company should not be employed in this way, or should be terminated, and people working through it should be employed by someone who knowingly broke the law by hiring such an agency.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u81	Anybody else want to discuss this point? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the Left. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided on Tuesday, 26th, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. 9. 2017, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. On the day-to-day basis, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on the Regulation of the Market in Work, a summary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities for Mr Peter Pogačar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u82	Mr Vice President, honourable Members, honourable Members! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Labour Market Regulation Act was also based on analyses based on developments in the Slovenian labour market. The main purpose of the bill before you is to ensure faster activation of the unemployed. The rapid, effective activation of the unemployed is crucial to the situation of the unemployed when they lose their jobs for various reasons. The fact is that the longer the period of unemployment, the harder it is to return or reintegrate into the labour market. At the same time, it is worth noting that the Slovenian labour market is already facing a shortage of labour after several consecutive years of economic growth. Thus, the proposal for a law on amendments to the Labour Market Regulation Act changes the possibility of applying for an employee in an institution to register at the time of the termination period. Why? Because we want the institution to get involved as soon as possible in the work of this man and to him as soon as possible, he is trying to find a new job. The draft law introduces an additional incentive for the employment of lower and middle-educated recipients of monetary compensation at the time of entitlement to that right. In order to eliminate cases of double insurance and to harmonise treatment with other compulsory social insurance, it is proposed to amend the status of shareholders, business persons, private and capital companies. In addition to that proposal, in view of the changing EU legislation, the European network of EURES services is being redefined, in order to comply with the provisions of the European Social Security Code, it is proposed to delete a provision which allows the right to payment to be refused where the insurer whose employment has ceased for unjustified reasons does not require arbitration or judicial protection against the employer. The government has already made clear in December 2014 that it does not support voluntary traineeships in the public sector. In fact, we have not implemented them in all this period in the Ministry of Labour. Thus, in order to change the law, the possibility of any volunteering in the law is deleted only in law. The new draft law on the basis of commitments adopted by the Youth Guarantee Scheme provides for monitoring at the level of the individual, which includes the collection and processing of personal data of individuals previously registered in the unemployment register and included in the Youth Guarantee. The proposal for a law for an unjustified use of resources from an active employment policy also redefines the legal obligation of a person involved in an active employment policy to recover funds unduly paid and additional obligations in the form of payment of legal late interest. By establishing a record of the student work, the bill establishes the legal basis for the implementation of the data recording system in the field of student work. This is very important, as it will allow students who carry out student work to have accurate records of their acquired work experience at the beginning of their career path. Dear Members and Members, the proposal for amendments to the law before you is fully in line with the social partners. We believe that individual measures will contribute to the speedy integration of unemployed persons into the labour market, not just integration. In connection with the previous Labour Inspection Act, we will ensure that this integration into the labour market also constitutes decent work for this unemployed person. I suggest you support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u83	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Uroš Pikl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u84	Presidents, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, for the last time today! The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons is at its 45th session. 9. as a parent labour body, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Labour Market Regulation Act submitted by the Government to the National Assembly with a proposal to be dealt with following a reduced procedure. The College of Presidents shall meet at its meeting of 16. 6. The Committee decided that the proposal for the Labour Market Regulation Act should be examined in a simplified manner and was therefore examined by the Committee on the basis of Rule 142 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Representatives of the Government or the competent Ministry of Labour, the Legislative and Legal Service, the State Council and representatives of the Labour Advisory Office participated in the work of the Committee. The Committee also received an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical and technical aspects and made specific comments to Articles 3, 4, 8, 9, 11, 14, 17, 19 and 23, which were also taken into account through the amendments. The Committee also received the opinion of the Commission of the National Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, which supports the proposed solutions to the Act. In the debate itself, it was pointed out that the most important changes to the law relate to the obligation to register a worker in the employment prospectors' register at the time the notice expires, thus seeking to achieve a faster activation of individuals in terms of finding a new job. At the same time, the penalties for non-compliance are tightened. Instead of the current reduction in the right to payment, it is proposed to reduce the dose rate from 80 per cent to 60 per cent of the base for the first three months of inequity, which will be reflected in the reduction in the cash refund itself. The debate also highlighted the position of some fellow Members and Members that sanctions for the delay in the time frame of the job seeker were disproportionate. The condition for the registration of agencies and the withdrawal of the authorisation to carry out the work of the agencies, which according to the discussers is too weak, was also raised. In the opinion of some unemployed people, this law will not give them any new rights, as there is only an increase in the repression of them, and the subsidies for employment of the employed force for the adoption of any employment, even the worst possible. The only positive side of this novel has been warned, but it is the abolition of free traineeships, and therefore, according to the representative of the Left Group, it has been pointed out that they will not support this law. It has also been pointed out that the employer will be obliged, in accordance with recommendations or regulations, to inform the employer of all his obligations and to ensure that the worker does not accidentally commit infringements. It was also pointed out that it is important for people to be activated as soon as possible, so in their view this legal obligation also gives them some additional incentive. It was pointed out that each person receiving a financial refund was also obliged to fulfil his or her obligations. The Committee then voted and adopted the amendments of the coalition groups, but did not accept the amendments of the left-wing Group to the 18th Article and amendments of the SDS Group of Ambassadors to Articles 14 and 15. At the conclusion of the examination of this regulation, the Committee voted in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on all articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the updated proposal for a regulation which you have received, which includes, as has already been said, amendments, has been prepared on the basis of the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure. However, the amended bill is an integral part of the report, which I briefly presented to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u85	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which the Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u86	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Once again a nice greeting to all present! Like the proposal for a law in the previous paragraph, this novelty is also part of a package of legislation that is supposed to provide answers to the current challenges of the labour market. Moreover, this law is also compatible with the social partners. It is true that the package is not yet perfect, but in the Desus Group we believe that it will also be the hardest nut, this is the Labour Relations Act, soon and successfully put under the roof. The main purpose of the new Labour Market Regulation Act is more effective or, if you want, faster activation of unemployed people. In the first place, it can indeed be seen that the conditions relating to the acceptance of unemployment benefits are being tightened and that the obligations of the unemployed or workers who are already in the process of failing the employment relationship are being stepped up. But the arguments that have led the social partners to adopt such provisions of the bill have also convinced our parliamentary group that this is not the case in fact and in its entirety. In the Desus Group, we see or understand the proposed changes as positive because they are aimed at reducing the many pitfalls that unemployment brings. We know that the time spent at the employment agency is stressful and not pleasant for most of those affected by unemployment. Income is low or even no longer. What is most worrying and disturbing is the loss of contact with work and people, which puts the unemployed in the most dangerous situation when they lose confidence and self-esteem, especially if unemployment is long-term. Not only is it harder to get a job for a longer period, but after a long period of absence from work it is harder to return to the working environment and it is harder to relive and adapt to the new working environment. We therefore agree with the proposed introduction of an obligation in the Group of Members to register a worker in the employment prospectors' register at the time of the cancellation period. At present, this is only an option; therefore, some have applied to the institution, others have not. This in itself indicates that the mere possibility of this step has also led to inequalities among people, since someone has been working hard for a new job at the time when he had a job and knew that he would lose it, while some have completely abandoned themselves to fate, hopelessness, and waiting. We also welcome the introduction of incentives to recipients of unemployment benefits who have only a lower or secondary education. The rapid activation of the latter is all the more important because, on the one hand, unemployment is the biggest trap for these groups. On the other hand, we know that demand for labour and employment are again on the rise, including especially for jobs where such education is needed. The third aspect is that this group is often not among active job seekers. The measure to maintain the 20% further payment of the cash refund until the expiry of this right, or at least another 12 months after employment, is, in our opinion, a suitable and positive aim of the State to shorten the period of unemployment, to put more effort into finding employment and to make employers more quickly reach the required workforce. So the effect is multi-layered. In the position of the Desus Group, I spoke about two things, two important solutions, some of which the amendment to the Labour Market Regulation Act has brought up and has already been mentioned today by the Government representative in his presentation of the content of the proposal for a new law. On purpose, I have highlighted these two solutions, because in our view they are the most important in this novel. Nevertheless, in the Desus Group I predict support for all the solutions envisaged in it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u87	The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mrs Marija Bacič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Hello again, everyone in the hall! The proposed amendment to the Labour Market Regulation Act is part of a package of legislation that is intended to provide answers to the current challenges of the labour market. This bill introduces the obligation to register a worker in the employment prospectors' register at the time of the termination period, while tightening the penalty for a worker in case of non-compliance. The right to a cash refund for the first three months of entitlement in the case of infringements is, instead of 80 per cent, only 60 per cent. An incentive is introduced to employ lower-educated recipients of cash compensation in the form of further payment of 20 per cent of the last net amount paid for a maximum of 12 months; in the case of full-time employment, termination of the person's management in the register of unemployed persons is introduced, in cases of criminal reasons only after a new infringement of the rules; termination of the possibility of volunteering for self-employment training in the field of lifelong career orientation and employment intervention; establishment of a legal basis for the implementation of the system of recording data in the field of the management of temporary and occasional work of students and students and the power to maintain records is conferred on the Student Organisation of Slovenia. These solutions in the amendment are proposed and coordinated in social dialogue with the social partners, which is crucial for the Social Democrats. We believe that the solutions are good and that they will contribute to greater and, above all, to the faster employability of the unemployed. In the case of a person who loses his job, it is vital that he find a job and get a job as soon as possible. Many studies show that the pitfalls of unemployment are high. Unemployment has worsened the quality of life. It is particularly unpleasant in young people who just lose knowledge quickly if they do not use it. As a result of the prolonged transition to a period of employment, young people lose their personal and social identity. Unemployment can lead to various health problems, can lead to a fall in self-confidence, a reduction in its material and social self-image. The will to live for the unemployed is declining, and there are situations of insecurity of inner peace, exhaustion, senselessness and fear of the future. The longer the person is unemployed, the more financial problems he has, the social interactions are reduced, the person shuts down and becomes more apathetic. This leads to a vicious circle of poverty, and social activation is therefore crucial here. We believe that the amendment to the Labour Market Regulation Act gives some answers to the above-exposed traps, which many do not even know. We believe that the novelty brings the necessary new levers of response to the situation in the labour market, so we will support the law in our parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u89	We continue with the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic for her.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u90	Dear President, all present! One of the basic human needs is the need for self-employment and self-employment, and it is the duty of the country to create conditions for employers to be able to create new, high-quality jobs and to enjoy dignity on the other hand. Christian Democrats are advocating greater flexibility in the labour market, which will encourage employers to start new employment when they need new labour. With an appropriate tax policy, the State must enable companies to be more competitive and burdened with excessive labour costs while ensuring effective control over respect for labour law and the exercise of workers' rights and severely sanctioning infringements. It should encourage investment in research and development so that companies are competitive in the domestic and global markets. The aim of the proposal is to achieve faster activation of the unemployed or to minimise the time of unemployment of the individual, with some changes to the rules and deadlines. Keeps that longer than the duration of unemployment, harder for an individual to return to his job. The obligation to register a worker in a job seeker’s register in the institution is introduced at the time of the termination period and the penalty when the application deadlines are not met. In addition, incentives are being put in place to recruit lower and middle-educated recipients of monetary compensation. According to the Ministry's representatives, the analysis shows that, for the most part, individuals who have secondary or lower education and who in fact today are in demand in the labour market are largely waiting for the end of their financial compensation, only then are seriously taking an active approach to finding employment. Now, if a person receives unemployment benefits at the time of receiving a job, he will receive some of this cash in addition to his salary. So we have similar goals, and there is a different way to achieve them. We Christian Democrats are working to make Slovenia a place where enough jobs for all citizens, where every decent work is valued and where the worker who performs it is well paid. The closer we get to the goal of full employment, the easier it will be to ensure social security for those who, due to their youth or age, illness or disability, cannot work. All citizens will be able to enjoy greater prosperity if more people who are able to work get a job that will allow them to generate enough income for themselves, for their families and for all those who are entitled to the benefits and services of the social security system. This will be achieved by providing young people with quality education for the professions for which there is a need for employers and if employers are burdened by excessive taxes and taxes. Christian Democrats, too, must be warned that some in this country are not worth doing. The difference in the amount of monetary compensation, potential social transfers and potential payments and, for example, the net minimum wage is significantly too small. For some who need some encouragement, it is therefore worth more to work than to stay at home. The proposal to amend the law also removes the possibility of volunteering. Let us point out here that it is the duty of the country to provide enough paid traineeships for graduates who are educated in our faculties. To this day, unfortunately, it's not. We will not oppose the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u91	The position of the Left Group will be presented by Mr Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u92	Thank you for your word and a nice hello! At the outset, I have to respond to the statement made by the Secretary of State of Pogačar less than half an hour ago concerning this law. He said that this government has tightened the conditions for agency work. That's not true. This mandate has not yet been amended by the Labour Market Regulation Act. What you are about to accept today, I am aiming for a coalition, not to tighten the working conditions for agency work, but to the contrary. This law proposes that foreign agencies will no longer have to open up branches to us as they have had to before, thus reducing their costs and encouraging agency work and the whole system of work is even more imprudent. The Left will therefore not support the proposed law. With the exception of incentives for less skilled workers, the unemployed do not benefit. It mainly contains new sanctions which are completely disproportionate. These sanctions will not increase employment, but will affect the unemployed and their families. If I'm going back to the principle level, I have to say that there is a crucial conceptual difference between us, Levice, and neoliberal parties. In Levi, we are convinced that social policy must ensure the well-being of people, and the neoliberal doctrine that Cerara's government is also carrying out is working on how to force people to accept any kind of work, even though it is the worst paid and the most illegal. Therefore, our governments constantly hold social assistance and compensation for the unemployed not only below the threshold of poverty risk, but even below the minimum threshold of the calculated cost of living. Money social assistance is below 300 euros. If you don't have your own place, you can't live with it physically. The same problem is with unemployment benefits. On average, a worker with secondary education receives €455 in compensation. This is less than the security allowance and 200 euros below the poverty risk threshold. This, of course, has nothing to do with active employment policy, but it has only to do with savings in the unemployed. See, Germany had almost twice as much unemployment as Slovenia in 2015 and allocated three times more GDP to the unemployed. In particular, they had 4.6% unemployment and 1.7% of GDP allocated to the unemployed. We had once more, i.e. 9 per cent unemployment, and for the unemployed we earmarked 0.6 per cent of GDP compared to 1.7 per cent of GDP in Germany. Today's situation is no better, so in Levica we repeat that if the recipe for the development of low taxes, low wages and weak social protection, then we would have an economic miracle in Bulgaria or Latvia, but on the contrary, we only have a social catastrophe and mass emigration. Unfortunately, there will be no opportunity to discuss this important law today. But I have to warn you about that. This law disproportionately exacerbates penalties. After the new job, the unemployed person will have to come to the office and apply as soon as he gets a job failure, not until he loses his job. He'll only have three working days. If the deadline is one day late, he will thus miss 25 percent of the compensation for the next three months. In particular, the unemployed person with secondary education, who now receives an average of €455, will, if he is one day late, agree on 341 euros. It's just the worst case of repression in this law we've ever tried to calm down with the amendments. Unfortunately, there was no understanding on the part of the Government, so we will vote against the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u93	Mr Mirjam Bon Klanjšček will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Labour Market Regulation Act cannot really be contested. In addition to the other solutions it brings, it also allows faster activation of the unemployed, which will be positive in several different areas. But the problem of this novel is not what our Group and the Alliance thinks it brings. The problem, like many times before, is that it is not recorded in marriage. And that's exactly what I want to warn you about. Employers have long pointed out the rigidity of legislation when it comes to the possibility of firing workers. Even though we are just advocates of workers' rights, we believe that the Government here is obliged to listen to employers as well, and many times their demands are justified, their problems are real. There is no way we can agree to the view that all employers are corrupt or exploiting the weaker position of workers. They are also such and must be persecuted and punished. Is it right that when an employer does not trust his employee or when they are incompatible, it is right that such an employee cannot be forgiven? At least not for any other reason than business. We are convinced that the country should play a more active role here in finding a compromise solution between the protection of employees and the needs of employers themselves. Whether this is the creation of some guarantee fund for dismissed workers or something else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u95	The text shall be given by the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Erika Dekleva for her.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The purpose of the amendment to the Labour Market Regulation Act, which we are considering today, is to activate the unemployed. Indeed, Slovenia is facing a shortage of labour despite the increase in employment. To a large extent, demographic changes have an impact, and projections of demographic changes in the future do not predict any improvement in this direction. Increasing the number of non-working older people and disproportionate integration of young people into the labour market has a significant impact on the labour market, economic growth and productivity. Employers do not even get adequate staff at the Employment Institute, the pool of labour-powered workers has been emptied, and the rest are mostly poorly motivated, under-educated and long-term unemployed older workers. The law provides for measures to activate the unemployed more quickly. Even though the bill focuses on the activation of the unemployed, I cannot help but overlook the fact that other things will have to be taken into account in shaping policies in the future on the labour market. The digitisation of the labour market and the achievement of the level of natural unemployment are only two aspects. In order to overcome the problem of labour shortages, it is primarily necessary to ensure that people remain active longer and that young people enter the labour market as quickly as possible, which is not possible if employers do not have adequate conditions. This means that both young and old people need to pay as much attention as possible to lifelong learning, in which they can acquire appropriate competences, knowledge, skills to be active in the labour market for longer periods of time or to become more involved in the labour market. It is one of the laws of the labour law package and also responds to the demographic challenge which has a significant impact on the labour market. Indeed, projections of the population’s movement indicate that the low birth rate will soon lead to labour shortages. The consequences of demographic change in the labour market were also highlighted by Umar in the demographic change document and their economic and social consequences. Since the novelties that we are addressing today are responding to the current, already-exposed challenges that we are facing in the labour market and because the proposal for a law is the fruit of social dialogue and a consensus has been reached with the social partners on changes in the labour market, we will also support the modern Centre's Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u97	Ms Susana Lepi Šimenko will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, chairman. All present, all well-known! The area of labour market regulation is, of course, an area that urgently needs change, but in the novel that is ahead of us today, there are some rather unusual solutions. We agree with the amendment relating to the mandatory application to the employment prospector's register at the time of the notice of termination and, on the other hand, with the sanction if the worker does not do so, in a reduced cash refund from 80 per cent to 60 per cent of the basis and with other solutions such as simplifying the service of the decision on the right to payment and the suspension of the penalty from the unemployment register. We find a somewhat unusual solution to the new incentives only for the employment of the unemployed with uncompleted primary, vocational and secondary education. We are talking about an incentive of 20 per cent of the last net amount paid, which they will receive if they are hired before they are entitled to a cash refund. We agree that a record of the student work should be established, where their acquired knowledge and experience will be introduced, but we cannot agree that this record should be kept by the Student Organisation of Slovenia. The student organisation of Slovenia is declared a private law entity which autonomously lays down rules, including the way the data is processed. It is a database of sensitive personal data of around 100,000 persons, which will be complementary over the years and there is a great potential for abuse of such data in commercial and partial interests. It would be significantly better if this base was managed by the Employment Office, which is the most needed for the employment activation of young people. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we estimate that such record-keeping and data processing would be contrary to the principles on which personal data are protected and made available. That is why we have proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party an amendment to keep student work records within the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Employment, which has not received the support of the coalition. We will not support the labour market regulation law because of its exposure to the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u99	We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. Decision on the draft law will be made on Tuesday, 26th, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. 9. 2017, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. At the end of the day, that is to say the bill on amendments and additions to the law on professional and scientific titles, the summary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. To further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Tomaž God.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u100	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, a nice greeting also on behalf of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport! We have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Professional and Scientific Titles which regulates, we can say, less complex changes and additions, which are more or less based on an analysis of the current functioning of the system or the functioning of the law. I would like to highlight or narrow down only the key changes in a few points. The first amendment refers to the creation of professional and scientific titles in second-degree study programmes, in order to take into account the already established exception to the creation of professional titles in first-degree study programmes and to the second-degree study programmes. Another novelty or other simplification is that the proposal deletes the publication of professional and scientific titles in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia, as this is unnecessary in view of the established system of public records, the so-called EES, and represents additional unnecessary administration. The proposal for a law, subject to the established regulation that the Ministry of Education is even clearer in its power to decide on offences related to the award and use of professional and scientific titles. This is followed by the intention that the Ministry does not only act as a criminal authority, but in particular to prevent the misuse of professional and scientific titles, which can be achieved by calling for proper conduct as preventive measures. The proposal to amend the law on the basis of the principle of legality and legal certainty lays down, or also lays down, criminal provisions. That is, a criminal provision sanctioning an individual in an established law if he uses a professional or scientific name or the title of a professional education that he has not acquired and in this way the infringement is, in fact, divided into two possible sanctions or two possible situations. Firstly, in the same way as before, an individual shall be punished if he uses a professional or scientific address or the title of a professional education which he has not acquired in accordance with the law, proposing an increase of the fine from EUR 40 per offence to EUR 500. In this case, we're talking about an offence where someone introduces himself with a scientific or professional title that he doesn't actually have, so someone who hasn't doctored, let's say, for example, is called a doctor. On the other hand, an individual’s offence is regulated if he uses a professional or scientific name or a professional education that he has not obtained in accordance with the law, but in a foreign country, an accredited institution has obtained the same or higher level of education as is required for the professional or scientific title or the name of the professional education that he is using. This would mean that someone misrepresents his or her foreign education or his or her professional education and, in fact, is actually incorrect in citing his or her education. In this case, we introduce the news that for such an individual, for the first time, a warning has been given that he is actually warned about how and how he should use his scientific or professional title, and only then in the following cases is there a sanction that is significantly lower than the first time someone falsely introduces himself, namely, such a 40-euro fine. We believe that in this way we will somehow establish the duality or difference between misapplication or misapplication, but it does have an education, and among those who clearly misrepresent themselves by means of an education that certainly does not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u101	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the chairman of the Committee, Dr Mirjam Bon Klanjšček.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u102	Thank you very much. At its 33rd regular meeting on 6 September this year, the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth discussed the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Professional and Scientific Addresss submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration. At its 99th regular meeting on 16 June this year, the College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the draft law should be examined in a simplified manner. In the light of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the technical and legislative aspects, the proposed law has been examined and commented on by the Legislative and Legal Service. However, her representative explained that most of the comments had been taken into account in the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups, while others explained in the explanations sent. The Commission of the State Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport, which supported the proposal of the law, also gave its opinion. During the course of business, the amendments were tabled by SMC, Desus and SD. In the introduction, the draft law was presented by the representative of the proposer, Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič. The Committee then adopted, without discussion, amendments to SMC, Desus and SD's parliamentary groups. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee also voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u103	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u104	All in attendance, all in attendance! At the 33rd meeting of the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth, we discussed the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Professional and Scientific Titles. The solution brought by law is the protection of the Slovenian professional or scientific title or the title of professional education. In order to avoid misinterpretations, the said amendment shall clearly specify in which cases the infringements are committed. The Law on Professional and Scientific Titles provides, inter alia, for fines for offences, with a fine of EUR 500, for the individual to be punished by using a professional or scientific address or the title of professional education, even though he has not obtained it at all. For an individual who would have received the same level of education already obtained abroad or at an accredited institution as required for a professional or scientific address or the title of the professional education he is using but has not obtained it in accordance with the proposed law, the novel provides for a minor penalty. Such an individual is to be warned at first and then punished with a fine of €40 when further violations are found. In the New Slovenia Group, we will not oppose the mentioned amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u105	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, for which Dr. Dragan Matić is a member.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u106	Thank you for your word, chairman. All in attendance, all in attendance! The amendment of the Law on Professional and Scientific Titles, which we now have on the parliamentary benches, eliminates certain shortcomings and inconsistencies that have been demonstrated in the implementation of the legislation in force. We like to mention many times that legislation must follow life, utility and predictability. With the novel that we accept today, that is what we are doing. In fact, a key change is that the criminal provisions or corresponding content of the offence are more clearly and predictablely recorded, that the level of sanctions imposed on violators of the provisions of the law, and that the principle of proportionality, as one of the key principles of the rule of law, is being improved. An individual who misapplys with an appropriately acquired professional or scientific address will be warned of his incorrect record or use. Only after a prior warning, which will be given by the competent department, will the individual be able to be punished for the offence committed, taking into account the fact that the offence is serious. A penalty of €40 will follow if an individual misquotes the professional or scientific address or address he has obtained, and does not use it in accordance with the law. However, a person who has not obtained a scientific or professional address is still using it may be fined without prior warning. In these cases, higher fines are also provided for offenders. The Ministry of Education, Science and Sport will also be responsible for overseeing the implementation of the law on the award, creation and use of professional or scientific titles. It is true that the novel represents a response to some past cases, including a public response to them, but it is also true that bureaucratic indiscretions are eliminated where they are found in a timely manner. Also due to the public response and inconsistencies in the legislation cited by the above-mentioned cases, the Government has decided to amend the law in question. The country must be responsive and responsible in relation to its citizens and residents. It must be proactive in addressing the problems and needs of citizens and also respond adequately to them by amending legislation when it is found that this is necessary. This is a case in point, since bureaucratic shortcomings are being addressed, so we will, of course, support the amendment of the Law on Professional and Scientific Addresss in the SMC Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u107	Ms Marinka Levičar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Member, Members and representatives of the ministries, welcome! Inconsistentity in the legislation, let us only recall the case of the incorrect translation of the academic title and, consequently, the punishments that prompted amendments to the Law on Professional and Scientific Titles. The Desus Group supports the proposal for amendments to the law, which, in our opinion, reduces the excessive penalties for misusing the title obtained by a diploma from a higher or higher education college or institution. It also seems to us that the offender should first be alerted to the violation and only then, if he does not remove it, will he be punished by payment of the law-threatening penalty. It also seems to us that it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport to control the implementation of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u109	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. Decision on the draft law will be made on Tuesday, 26th, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. 9, in the framework of the votes. This also interrupts this agenda item. We're moving to nine. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS A DELAYMENT OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENT OF THE TRAINING LAW, AFTER A COMPLETE PROCEDURE The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. To further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Andrea Barle Lakota. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u110	Thank you so much for saying that. I'd like to explain briefly what our novels are bringing. Our novel brings the placement of assistant educators in a way that is actually happening in kindergartens. This is because the complexity of the educational and educational work in kindergartens has become so great that assistants of educators have been given new tasks, including educational and curiculative work, and this has therefore to be regulated by law. Another important news is that we introduce so-called shorter programs for those children who are not included in kindergartens. It is the intention that children will become familiar with the institutional environment in a timely manner before entering school and thus gain a better chance of better integration into school. The third amendment concerns the exercise of reduced payment rights for kindergartens, i.e. when the right is effective. Then, with the provisions, we gave some more autonomy to the municipalities when they included children in kindergarten. These are waiting types, i.e. how long and how many times an individual can decide whether to include a child in kindergarten or not, as well as give legal basis to the congregations for additional discounts granted to parents of children involved in kindergartens. We have also committed more flexibility to the implementation of the public kindergarten network, so that a network of kindergartens and kindergarten programmes can be organised in economic institutions. The Institute of the Ombudsman is also being built up, in particular with the experience we have had, a practice that has taken place in recent years. In the end, we also ensure the transparency of the use of municipal resources in determining additional discounts. Some of the provisions are intended primarily to harmonise the law with the Act on child guidance with special needs. These are the essential novelties of the law, which we are convinced will mean greater quality of work in educational institutions and kindergartens.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u111	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Dr Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth is held at its 33rd regular session 6. This year, he addressed the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Kindergarten submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided at its 102nd regular meeting on 14 July this year that the draft law should be examined in a simplified manner. In the light of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the technical and legislative aspects, the proposed laws have been examined and commented on by the Legislative and Legal Service. However, her representative explained that their comments were largely taken into account in the proposed amendments to the coalition, while the other were also given written explanations by the Ministry. The Commission of the State Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport, which supported the proposal of the law, also gave its opinion. Her representative stressed, inter alia, the importance of maintaining the high standards of Slovenian public kindergartens and at the same time drew attention to the clear regulation of the establishment of private kindergartens under conditions that would not reduce the social inclusion of all children. In the course of the course of business, the amendments were tabled by SMC, Desus and SD and the Levica Group of Members. In the introduction, the draft law was presented by the representative of the proposer, Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič. The debate followed, namely, the increase in the participation of children in kindergartens, the organisation of public kindergartens at the premises of the company, the renaming of the current professional worker as a “assistant assistant” of preschool children in the “trainer assistant” and the financing of shorter programmes by the State budget for children who do not attend primary school during the year prior to their entry into primary school. She also presented her position to the representative of the Municipality of Ljubljana, who explained, inter alia, that they are proposing to supplement the novel because of the fact that the local community is obliged to finance private kindergartens, despite the fact that in public kindergartens where the founder is a local community, the towns are still free. There was further discussion on what happens when the owner of the company in which the kindergarten is organised no longer has an interest in this, as well as the need to favour public kindergartens in front of private ones. After the discussion on the individual articles of the bill, the Committee adopted amendments to the SMC, Desus and SD groups, but did not adopt the amendments of the Levica Group. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee also voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u113	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u114	Dear President, Honourable Secretary of State, colleague and colleague! Parenthood is the most beautiful and also the most demanding profession. We want our parents to have perfect, successful, responsible, independent and healthy children, so we need to train them primarily with internal discipline and values, and sometimes we are running out of time at a fast pace of life. Parents need to be aware that, in the first place, education takes place in a domestic, family environment, continues in kindergarten and then in school. Parents must by no means allow or even allow our children to be raised by institutions. Every time a child grows up is a special chapter, so we must make sure that we provide them with an environment that is best for them. Therefore, in New Slovenia, we keep reminding ourselves of the proper regulation, coordination of family and professional life. The proposed novel makes it possible to increase the proportion of children involved in kindergartens in the year before compulsory entry into primary school by 240 free hours funded from the State budget, which is the first step in the right direction. In New Slovenia, we have recently tabled a proposal to amend the Kindergarten Act so that now that the economic crisis is over, we can reintroduce a free kindergarten for the second and every future child. This measure has already been in force in the past and has been very successful and effective. He has brought a great deal of stress on young families and has helped with family budgets. In a country where we are so short of children, we should unanimously adopt such solutions, but unfortunately our proposal has not been adopted. In addition, the new Kindergarten Act is intended to facilitate the organisation of public education departments in higher education institutions implementing the pre-school curriculum and the public kindergarten unit can also be organised at the premises of an economic society. This innovation brings an improvement in accessibility, i.e. the advantage of including a child in a kindergarten in the premises of the company where the parents are employed. This is certainly a step forward in coordinating family and professional life. The bill also provides the municipalities with a legal basis for further incentives or discounts in the payment of kindergarten. On the basis of the proposal, the municipality has the opportunity via the municipal council to allow discounts to parents who solve the housing problem by building a house or who have a family loan to solve the housing problem. However, the most important change brought about by law is, in our opinion, the renaming of a professional worker, the current assistant educator, as a teacher of preschool children, as an assistant educator. In my position, I'm going to use a woman's form as assistant educator because there's more in our rooms. Let the assistants of the educators not feel deprived, and they too will be treated accordingly. Teachers’ assistants are right-hand teachers of preschool children, so-called other mothers, such as the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth. The Employment Institute’s website describes the work performed by the assistant educator: it assists in the implementation of the educational process and independently carries out individual tasks in agreement with the educator; it helps in the use of didactic material for children’s activities; it helps with the preparation of educational resources, toys and games; and the functional and aesthetic arrangement of the space; it provides adequate time allocation and forms of daily tasks such as nutrition, hygiene, rest and outdoors; it participates in the joint tasks of kindergarten in accordance with the annual work plan; and it cooperates with the educator in the production of the final report on the performance of tasks in the previous year. So, assistants of education deserve more recognition for their work. With our political decisions, we want to contribute to the creation of a society that will be favourable to children, where children will be richer in life and will enable them to develop in an encouraging environment of family and kindergarten. In the New Slovenia Group, we will unanimously support this amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordiš will present the position of the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u116	Thank you for your word, chairman. We have a lot of problems with this novel of the Kindergarten Act in Levica. As the only positive change we see is the renaming of a professional worker as a teacher of preschool children, because this gives us the legal basis for changing the evaluation of this job so far, because it is a condition for paying slightly higher salaries which should be negotiated by the unions. Everybody's gonna have to do their thing. Why? Assistants and assistants of educators do their work for poor wages. They're moving around about 600 euros. They are trained for the hard work of educators and in practice they are also doing this work and, of course, they also deserve an appropriate payment. For some of the other changes introduced by the novel, I have already expressed on the parental committee our concerns, which I will not distribute here today. But I will talk about what the novel does not change, or what still strengthens; it is the privileged position of private kindergartens. What's the problem? According to the law, private schools must be co-financed by the congregations, even though they are still free in public. Private kindergartens thus receive 85 % co-financing, although they are established just like that, on average and without their founders asking anyone without any need in the community. In Ljubljana, for example, the situation is already so drastic that such private kindergartens are more than public ones. And for their co-financing, this year alone, the congregation has already deducted more than €2 million. There is no real reason for this situation, no real argument. It is totally irrational for private kindergartens to be co-financed from the local community budget, but at the same time public kindergartens are not yet fully occupied. The financing of private kindergartens is acceptable if and only if the state cannot provide the necessary capacity and until it is able to provide these necessary capacities. But it's the opposite of what's happening here. Private kindergartens exploit the community’s commitment to co-financing and therefore grow as mushrooms in the rain. I'm going back to the Ljubljana case. In 2012, 11 private kindergartens were eligible for this co-financing in Ljubljana. A year later, in 2013, this number has grown to 17 private kindergartens and so on until today, when these kindergartens are already 26. This is another example of the direct outflow of public finances into private pockets, the privatisation of our kindergarten system. How bad this idea is, I probably do not need to stress it in particular, however; the private system of kindergartens is eroding the solidarity principle on which the social state is built, setting up a two-tier system, not only in bureaucratic, administrative terms, but also in class and social terms, in terms of equal opportunities, because private kindergartens can be afforded by those who will pay or pay for them. In addition, private school workers are short-lived. The union, for example, reported on the committee that workers in private kindergartens were silently banned from the organisation of trade union activities and that union aid was returned on condition of anonymity, and then under the cover of anonymity they could say that there was a breach of labour law, that contracts were chained for a certain period of time, that the regress was not paid and similar infringements of labour law. Instead of strengthening and maintaining existing preventive mechanisms that provide for the abolition of co-financing for violators of labour law, the Ministry has decided to take the opposite action. In fact, the sanctioning mechanism is being abolished with this novelty. According to the new report, violations in the field of labour relations, wages and labour obligations will be fined from thousands to two thousand euros and companies, which are private kindergartens, with weak controls and low penalties, of course, turn infringements into a business model. We know this story from the economy: Marof Trade, IPS and so on. In Levica we advocate all accessible and free preschool education within the public kindergarten system, so we will not support the laws that preserve the grounds for privatisation of public services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr Mirjam Bon Klanjšček will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The area of pre-school education is an important part of the education policy in Slovenia and includes all types of services that provide the protection and education of children before entering compulsory school, regardless of the form, funding, business time and content of programmes. The upbringing of preschool children takes place in the family, in the institution, in the kindergarten and through other factors of the environment in which the child lives. Policies for the upbringing and protection of pre-school children are different from those of countries and are regulated differently accordingly. This is how we know systems where the education and care of preschool children is left exclusively to the private initiative of parents. Since the initiative is exclusively private, the role of the State is also reduced to a minimum in this case, policies are less developed and more focused on individual groups of children – either children from poorer areas or children from immigrant families. On the contrary, countries that have recognised pre-school education as an area of public interest have developed a policy that understands the right to quality pre-school education programmes as a fundamental right. Slovenia undoubtedly belongs to another group of countries, as the quality of Slovenian kindergartens is undoubtedly exceptional. One of the main objectives pursued by the proposed novelty is to ensure even better quality conditions for the implementation of pre-school education and to increase the participation of children in kindergartens, according to the proposal. I also underline the envisaged measure to ensure greater socialisation of children who do not attend primary school in the year before entering primary school, as well as a change in the name of the professional worker so far, the “trainer assistant” in the “training assistant” of preschool children. Only the renaming has unanimously supported the profession, and it is equally important for employees to revalue jobs, as the new name will also give them higher starting wages, which are now, I must stress, shamefully low. In the Parliamentary Group of Non-Related Members, we will support the proposal to amend the Law on Kindergartens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Ms Irena Kotnik will present the position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u120	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Secretary of State with co-workers from the Ministry, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! At a time when we are facing ever-increasing societal challenges, it is important that quality pre-school education enables us to start a good start for all children. The system of pre-school education and care is an extremely important part of education and education in our country, as it constitutes an entry point for all further educational steps by every individual and has significant consequences for society as a whole. Slovenia has one of the best and better systems of preschool education and protection in the world, as others acknowledge, and we can be extremely proud of it. However, it is important that such a system is constantly being upgraded and improved. This is, in fact, followed by the amendment to the Kindergarten Act, which we are adopting today. It also shows the attitude of this government and the National Assembly as legislator to the importance of quality and accessible pre-school education. Let me just point out the most important solutions. Firstly, by renaming and grading the job more appropriately, the assistant educator is improving their material status in view of the complexity of the tasks they perform while working with our young children. The assistants undoubtedly deserve higher salaries, and this change is the first step towards realizing what has also been followed by an agreement on the abolition of wage anomalies between the Government and trade unions since July of this year. The commitment that has been made is clear and cannot and must not be questionable. Another time. Slovenia is in the upper half of the OECD countries following the inclusion of three- and four-year-olds in preschool education. We are also constantly approaching the EU's strategic objective of 95 per cent involvement of children in pre-school care from the age of four to school entry. With a view to maximising the involvement in pre-school education, the novel introduces the financing of shorter programmes from the State budget for children currently outside the system of organised pre-school education. The importance of inclusion of children, in particular before compulsory primary education, is irreplaceable, encourages development for individuals, has a positive impact on social cohesion. International research shows that 15-year-olds who have been involved in preschool care achieve better reading literacy outcomes than peers who have not been included in preschool education and could even be listed. Although some argue otherwise, the measure is important and we support it in the SMC Group. Third time. The novelty provides an opportunity for the organisation and implementation of public kindergarten departments in higher education institutions implementing pre-school education programmes and at the premises of the company, with children of employees taking precedence over entry. In doing so, let us stress that the organisation of such departments will not, of course, be compulsory, but only an opportunity is offered if there is agreement between the congregation and the economic society. In the parliamentary group, we estimate that such an option can benefit children and parents, as it also indirectly addresses the problem of lack of places in kindergartens and facilitates the coordination of work and family life. Lek's spin is already an excellent example of such integration, and we want to take this opportunity elsewhere. Fourth time. It is also important to include measures to eliminate administrative barriers to enrolment of children in kindergartens and the enforcement of reduced parental payments, greater transparency in the functioning of preschool guardians and enhanced local community competences in the development of central waiting lists. Finally, let me point out that the amendment does not favour private kindergartens from the public, as colleagues from the Left say. The adoption of their amendments proposed at the Education Committee would bring more problems than benefits. As regards the suspension of private kindergarten funding due to violations of the rules on the employment and salaries of employees, the representative of the Municipality of Ljubljana explained at the meeting of the Committee why such a proposal was unacceptable. In the SMC Group, we will support the amendment of the Kindergarten Act, as it goes in the right direction, in the direction of even greater quality and accessibility of preschool education in our country.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Ms Marinka Levičar will present the position of the Desus Group. Procedural? Here you go, Mr. Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u122	Thank you, Chairman. Since you didn't warn the previous speakers about that, I'll obviously have to warn her. In particular, the presentation of the views of the groups of Members is intended to present their views on the issue in question and does not negate so much with all others. This is what I think should also be said correctly, and such an arrangement is at work for a reason, because other parliamentary groups cannot defend themselves in this way and cannot argue their views. While we are here, I am not surprised by the fact that, by such a law, the coalition deepens the privatisation of kindergartens, by the following law it deepens the privatisation of primary schools, and it is not the Minister. He doesn't race around the country looking for anything else to privatize, he doesn't exactly have the presidential function he's running for.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u123	Mr. Miha Kordish, you know that's not true. We are these cases, or we have very common cases, where in the positions of the parliamentary groups Members are already dealing with what was on the committees in general, not only in the introductions. The business commission, when we discussed this, also failed to agree to write it down in the Rules of Procedure. It is said that Members have not decided that this regime, although my wish has been for some time if I tell you the truth, but simply; what you said is not true. Mrs. Marinka Levičar, please, on behalf of the Desus Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u124	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! The proposals for solutions in this novel, in our opinion, bring welcome news to parents, children and people working in kindergartens. That is why, on behalf of the Desus Group, I am announcing the proposal for a new Kindergarten Act, a unanimous support. A kindergarten encourages a child in development, especially for socialisation, the broad, stimulating environment of kindergartens designed for this professionally trained educator, is essential for the design and development of the social skills of preschool children. Therefore, the possibility of a free visit to a shorter kindergarten programme for preschool children for up to 240 hours, introduced by this bill, after our assessment of the move which will make it easier for non-school children to go to school, and we therefore welcome it. The fast pace of life is a constant that burdens us and at the same time leads to a greater rationalisation of time. Most of our daily life, however, is subject to work obligations and is aware of this, already, of a number of successful companies that have acquired the mark of a family-friendly company. In the Desus Group, we find that this title can also be helped by the solution contained in the proposal of this law; that a public kindergarten can be established in companies. We already know the example of good practice in Lek, but of course we are afraid that, due to the specific organisation and fragmentation of large companies, the establishment of such kindergartens in Slovenia will not be very massive. Such a kindergarten will have to meet all the conditions and standards prescribed for public kindergartens. The programme will be financed from public funds while the entire investment cost will be incurred on the shoulders of companies. Such a kindergarten in an economic society will not be a closed type, and children of parents who are not employed in this particular company will also be able to participate, but will certainly be given the advantage of working parents in this company. Changes in the procedure for the recognition of a subsidy for reduced payment of kindergartens brought by this law will benefit the municipalities and parents. Shortening the deadline for the inclusion of children in kindergartens from the central list will help ensure that children are given a place early and that they are able to complete their cities more quickly. The right to a reduced payment will be granted from the day of inclusion of the child in kindergarten, provided that the parents exercise the right and obtain the right within 60 days of the entry into kindergarten. The latter is, from a cost perspective, a better arrangement for parents than currently in force, which does not allow parents to reduce their payments back. In addition to the above, there are some other substantive innovations that make sense to us and, as already stated in the introduction, we will support the novel.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u126	Thank you for your word, once again, and a nice greeting to everyone! In the introduction, I should like to emphasise in the consideration of today's draft law on amendments and additions to the Kindergarten Act that preschool education in Slovenia has developed into a highly quality system that can be studied and recognized as an example of good practice in the wider international environment. The reasons for this can be found both in the openness and adaptability of the programme, greater respect for and respect for children and the high degree of autonomy and responsibility of kindergarteners and professional workers in it. It is therefore a concept that could be brought to a greater extent into the field of primary schools, as some critics point out that we are already moving too far away from these principles. Last but not least, this law also confirms the good work of kindergarteners, for today’s change is reintroduced by the somehow deformed form of the so - called small school. In fact, a 240-hour free programme is being introduced for children who were not included in kindergarten in the year before entering school. Of course, we are aware that the prerequisite for the successful functioning of the preschool system is mainly the satisfaction of employees and therefore we also support the provisions of the proposal, which, somewhere in the area of 5 000 500 assistants, also at the normative level, recognise a greater role in the so-called kindergarten day. The change in the title of the profession itself would, of course, be without an increase in wages, which in any event do not go beyond the threshold of poverty, an empty promise. We are so pleased that the first step in improving their material position has also been taken in this direction with the agreement between the Government and the trade unions. In order to avoid any problems with the payment of the budget and wages for September from the Government as signatories to the agreement, of course, we expect municipalities providing wage funds in kindergartens to be allocated an appropriate amount of additional budgetary resources. In the parliamentary group, we have also taken note of the changes that allow for the organisation of public kindergartens at the premises of the company, and in relation to this, we note that in such cases it must be ensured that the highest standards of safety are respected and that the requirements for the equipment and skills of employees are consistently met, in the way that other public kindergartens are concerned. The very debate on the working body revealed another dilemma that is particularly important to us. It is a matter of procedure concerning the establishment and financing of private kindergartens. On the one hand, we listened to warnings from a local community representative that there are increasing numbers of private kindergartens in their congregation and that all these kindergartens are provided with funds of comparable height as well as for their public kindergartens, the founder of which is the congregation itself. In doing so, I would like to stress in particular the fact that preschool education is the original jurisdiction of the municipalities and that each municipality is itself deciding whether to open a private kindergarten and to what extent it will also finance it, but above all it is very important that, at the time of the conclusion of the kindergarten contract, it also enters into the provisions of the contract the solutions which are binding, so that employees will have the same conditions as in public kindergartens – so that wages are the same as in public kindergartens – and if private kindergartens do not comply with it, of course they have the possibility to agree, then, in the contract, to suspend private kindergarten funding if these provisions are not respected. Thus, it is not all about the need for the State to regulate this area, the very great responsibility on this issue lies with the municipalities themselves and can be successfully resolved in the treaty. But the law itself, of course, once again at the conclusion, we will support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u127	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made on Tuesday 26 September in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I'm breaking the 9th point of the agenda. We're moving to 23. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS THE FIRST PROPOSAL FOR AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE TRAINING AND TRAINING LAW The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. With regard to this bill, the group of 19 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. To further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr Andrea Barle Lakota, State Secretary, Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u128	Thank you very much. The proposed novel does not affect the concept of the Vocational and Professional Education Act itself, but we just want to improve the dictions or status of certain issues. Above all, it is improving the effectiveness of education through a more precise definition of the duration of student status. It is the establishment of a central register of teaching cities and the installation of the validation of teaching cities. It is about improving the accessibility of education to foreign citizens, putting in a Slovenian course for pupils whose mother tongue is not Slovenian. It is the placement of an annex to the certificate, which we believe will provide more detailed and uniform and internationally comparable information on the professional qualifications of an individual. It is the placement of the rights and duties of the students into the law, so far they have been placed in the rules, which has been repeatedly pointed out by the Law and Law Service, if, of course, such rights have to be incorporated into the law. Finally, it is also a matter of clarifying the test of knowledge and the talent and responsibilities of schools as part of such tests. Therefore, by proposing amendments to the law, we only want to improve some of the concerns which have so far been demonstrated in the implementation of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u129	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Miha Kordiš will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u130	Thank you for your word, chairman. We are discussing the novel of the Law on Vocational and Professional Education, which comes in tandem with the novel of the Law on High Schools. The declared objective of the two amendments is to combat fictitious enrolment in secondary schools. What's up? Many people are enrolled in a regular or extraordinary programme of education for status purposes, not because of education itself. The purpose of such enrollments is inseparably linked to the work through the travel services provided by the student service, to the student work and in this way we must also treat it as placed in the broader context of the labour market. The temporary and occasional work of students and students, as is properly said to the student work, has long exceeded its framework. In more than one respect, it is no longer student or occasional or temporary. And it works only as a cheap source of the most flexible labour force that capitalists use to exploit and that private agencies are good at mediating, of course, not for small profits. A student's job is a pleasure job. How do governments and ministries deal with this problem? On the wrong end and with the wrong means! Instead of grabbing a segmented and sophisticated labour market, for poor supervision of capitalists and the unregulated field of student work, the Ministry of Sinful Goat has chosen pupils and young reprimands. In a crusade against fictitious entries, the government would radically restrict the availability of education. The measure is reckless, non-systematic and disproportionate. However, it comes from a false analysis of the situation and a lack of understanding of the reasons behind the emergence of fictitious entries. That such a measure will not eliminate the causes of precarnation and fictitious entries, we know. How do we know that? Yes, the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia has given us this warning in an annual report. The labour market is fast-tracked. Covert working relationships, forced espas are on the rise and accordingly the number of detected violations of the labour ban under civil law contracts is raised accordingly in cases where there are elements of the working relationship. In particular, because capitalists simply no longer employ for a certain period of time, let alone for an indefinite period of time. And young people who enter the labour market for the first time looking for their jobs are faced with capital pressure to either open espies or not even get to that modestly paid job. Moreover, they get even explicit instructions for fictitious entry so that they can work through a handbill, although this is a work that contains all the elements of a regular working relationship. Poor supervision, as a result of both the human resources and the financial substantiation of supervisory authorities, only encourages stable capitalists, including the country, to maintain and transform these practices into a business model. At the same time, the Ministry decided to harm education itself. Highly enrolled students will lose all rights arising from the student's status with this change. They're going to run out of student work, no parental insurance, no income benefits and no cheaper tickets. However, the amendment will limit the duration of student status to students who are enrolled on a regular basis. If it is now considered that students can go unfettered among secondary school programmes, this novel states that a student can only repeat a year or switch to another programme for the entire duration of secondary education. Of course, when this option is exhausted or burned, education must continue in exceptional education, paying for it and being without rights arising from the student’s status. The problem of fictitious enrollments could easily be solved by more thoughtful and proportionate measures, for example, this is only one example, with the obligation of schools to list exceptionally enrolled students who do not pass exams. Or with greater control over private schools that are established solely to accept fictitious enrollments and turn them into a business model — to drink cash contributions from fictitious students and their working families. Or any other proportionate measure would make sense, one that does not affect those who have nothing to do with the whole matter is the students. Here it shows that it is particularly important to highlight and draw attention to those students who achieve worse results in a very clear correlation between the poorer social and family conditions. A limited duration of status will mean that for some students there is only one possibility that they do not have a correctional exam and that some of the wrong decisions they make in the ninth grade of primary school – beware of this, in the ninth grade of primary school – may cost them their future. This disproportionate and excessive measure to eliminate fictitious entries is proposed without any analysis indicating the actual scope of these entries. In the absence of such data, it is also impossible to conclude on the actual consequences and effects of this measure. Except, of course, that he will strongly intervene in the rights of students to free and accessible education. However, the only positive side effect of this measure would be that the authorities would be aware of how big the problem is for young people to enter the labour market because real statistics on youth unemployment would finally show up. And the one we have now, the fictional one, is scary enough. Instead of dealing intensively with the real causes of fictitious entries, the Government set on fire its “engine” and engaged in scavenging students’ rights. On the contrary, it should regulate the precarious situation in the labour market faced by young people, increase the control of working relationships and finally regulate student work in a way that serves students and students, not private agencies and capitalists. We can even argue that the uncontrolled boom of student work in Slovenia has triggered the segmentation of the labour market that we are witnessing today. This process needs to be reversed; the student work should be arranged and done for what was initially meant – that is, as the occasional and temporary work of students and students. The problem of fictitious entries will resolve itself when we give others the opportunity to enter the labour market in a fair and dignified manner. Disguising the consequences of poor policies in the labour market and denying them rights is a little unfair. In Levica, therefore, the proposal, which runs counter to the principles of public, accessible and free school education for all, which strongly violates the capacity of the educational system to ensure social mobility and achieve social equality, cannot be supported. But what we would like to see for ourselves is that work ceases to be a commodity for young people to seek employment, but not to sell themselves, often even to prostitute themselves for poor pay on the labour market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Dr László Göncz will present the position of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Good day to you all! In view of the substantially changed social circumstances in recent years, we believe that the drafting of the proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Vocational and Vocational Education has been justified. In our Group of Members, in principle, we agree with the solutions brought by the amendment of the law, because we believe that support for the development of entrepreneurship, innovation and creativity is essential. The way in which apprenticeships are verified and the central register is established certainly requires updates or adjustments. The solutions relating to restrictions on the duration of education are satisfactorily regulated in the draft law. The current practice in this area certainly requires more determined solutions, but of course we need to pay particular attention to students with special needs and to those participants in the education programme who are perspective athletes or talented in other areas. The amendment of the law also transposes certain provisions of the sub-laws to the legal level. These relate to the rights and duties of students regarding the presence of students in education and other forms of education. We believe that changing the concept, that is, this concept or this transmission, is also a message-based nature in addition to substantive innovation, so we do not oppose it. I will mention only one other area, namely the content of the proposed Article 5, which speaks of the fact that the competent and professional council, due to the additional hours of instruction of the Slovenian and the language of the national community in areas where members of the Italian or Hungarian communities live and are defined as national mixed areas, are valued with several credit points, as otherwise specified. In doing so, we propose that the word “may” be omitted in the said word, as it may cause confusion as to the implementation of the said provision. Constitutional provision on the equality of languages with regard to the implementation of that provision. The constitutional provision on the equality of languages in the national mixed area is clear and therefore the amendment of the law must clearly provide that, in the case of educational programmes in the national mixed area, the competent professional council must evaluate this by a number of credit points, as is the case for the one-language area, because these are specific circumstances which require appropriate evaluation. So much so that this is the position of the two national communities. Finally, I should like to commend the bill's proposer, as all the proposals, including the sub-legislative acts, are attached to the bill's amendment, thus allowing for a review of the concrete consequences and the intended effects of the amendment of the law. I hope that in the further process of adopting the law we will also upgrade the law from the point of view of my proposal and, of course, in this first reading, we will support the text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Škodnik will present the position of the SMC Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u134	Dear Prime Minister, distinguished representatives of the Ministry, colleague and fellow Members! The new Law on Vocational and Vocational Education, which is ahead of us today, introduces measures that are not of an informal nature but are still important for the system of vocational and professional education, as we know from the adoption of the White Paper on Education and Education. In fact, the new law responds to the changed social circumstances, to the established practice developed in the course of the implementation of the law, and to the strategic documents of some international institutions that monitor vocational and professional education systems in many countries. This consideration of the law will most likely also be linked to the provision of views on the last year's Law on apprenticeship, which is already being implemented in the pilot project at selected schools and for selected educational programmes or professions. In the school year that began recently, with more tangible solutions, it is likely to be too early to talk, but we welcome the possible exchange of views on this too. Also because this amendment establishes a process for the verification of apprenticeships, including apprenticeships, as well as a central register of apprenticeships, at the legal level. It is important that the innovation also focuses on the development of modern concepts of education and education through sustainable development, entrepreneurship, innovation and creativity. It is also important to establish the basis for the recognition of formal and informal knowledge acquired, for the commitment to lifelong learning must be our common commitment. It is essential that we also limit the duration of regular education in the field of vocational and vocational education, as we have witnessed in the past the onset of fictitious enrolments and the exploitation of the right to regular education, which brings nothing good in the long run. Of course, exceptions should be retained to extend the duration of education where necessary. The amendments that enable foreign students to exercise the right to equal education, the changes that touch on the educational activities of schools and on the rights and duties of students, the preparation of personal educational plans and could also be listed. We stress the need for a specific consideration to be made in Article 8 of the amendment to the Act, which lays down the conditions for inclusion in the professional course. We understand the Ministry's intention to amend this Article, but we must be careful that we do not restrict the career path to individuals if they want it. In the SMC Group, we will support the conclusion that the bill is suitable for further consideration, and we will also listen carefully to colleagues and colleagues from other parliamentary groups in order to reach the widest possible consensus in further consideration on the proposed solutions envisaged in the new Vocational and Vocational Education Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Lisec will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u136	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State with colleague, colleague, colleague, nice greeting! We have before us, as already mentioned, a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Vocational and Vocational Education, which is not in line with the actual situation and proposes the possibility of introducing apprenticeships, which we all know has already been introduced with the adopted Law on apprenticeship in May 2017. This fact is interesting from the point of view that this coalition has already adopted the Law on apprenticeship, and today, if you are reading the draft law before us, it says, quote, “there is a law before us that introduces apprenticeship.” We have met several times with the Vocational and Vocational Education Act in this mandate. In the SDS Group, we have only proposed in this mandate, and once in the previous mandate, we have proposed a bill that would adequately address the issue of apprenticeship and would answer certain other current questions that concern young people and their parents who are addressing vocational and vocational education issues. Because of the attitude of this government, this minister, who is full of the promise of systemic solutions instead of regulating the apprenticeship system in this system law, has received the Law on apprenticeship, today we have some paradox. In the post-festum system law, we are solving or correcting matters that are already partially in force under the Law on apprenticeship, because, as has already been said, it is not a system law. It is even more problematic that this law is not 100% aligned with the Law on apprenticeship, which introduced apprenticeships, since, as I will say below, certain phrases are designed differently than in the Law on apprenticeship. In short, the law prescribes many good solutions, but they are copies of the traps of our 2016 proposal for a law that we have submitted in this Systemic Law on Vocational and Professional Education. Thus, before the adoption of the Law on apprenticeship in the SDS Group, we have also warned that certain matters should also be regulated in the Act on Vocational and Professional Education. Also in order to correct the confusion and loose conduct in the Law on apprenticeship, today this amendment to the Act on Complements of the Law on Vocational and Professional Education is before us. The present law establishes the possibility of the introduction of apprenticeship, which, as it is said, is a paradox, since this is already regulated by a special law and the law is more than likely to introduce a different apprenticeship. But we will talk more about this at a meeting of the parent working body, where we will warn you that even copy paste variants obviously certain officials at the ministries are not able to arrange them from the Law on apprenticeship and copy them into the Law on Vocational and Vocational Education. Even more problematic or more obvious is the fact that, after we have spoken both on the Education Committee and when we have also addressed ourselves to the Ministry of the Economy, that there is a need to have some practical form of apprenticeship, the provisions in this law before us introduce a different form of apprenticeship. And this is more of a school form of apprenticeship, you might say. Thus, the law also fills the void in the Law on apprenticeship, for example, in the already adopted Law on apprenticeships, indicates who conducts the examination of apprenticeships and what it contains. In this law, which is before us, we are talking about the register of apprenticeships and the central register of apprenticeships, which sets out the teaching places in more detail. In short, uncoordinated matters. We are very afraid in the SDS Group, not only that there will be disharmony, but even that there will be duplication of very similar solutions, which will eventually, if we draw the line, be our own purpose. Of course, it is necessary to ask once again why marriages were not introduced and prepared at the same time and were also harmonised among themselves. And once again, probably not for the last time; we still do not know why two different laws need to be made. As the law has said, it brings quite a few changes that we proposed in the SDS Group in 2015 when we presented systemic solutions in the Systemic Law on Vocational and Professional Education. But obviously there was no either obedience or desire, or perhaps there was not enough hope for all those solutions that are here to be finalized with the solutions that we proposed in the SDS Group. That is why we fear that, or perhaps because the Ministry has not had enough courage or has not worked well enough with other stakeholders, especially teachers, certain issues will still be open after the adoption of this law. Obviously, we should remove certain points by law, key issues in the system, which are the rights and duties of students and the educational activities of schools, because schools have significant problems with the issue of justified absences. The proposal also failed to take into account the need for students to be given opportunities for developmental diversity. Therefore, parallel education reduces only to artistic education, explaining that other modularity is difficult to achieve and that students are too burdensome. Here we are asked whether the art and dance classes are real in the music and dance direction of those where this modularity or parallel education is allowed, why only these programs, on the other hand, are we talking about artistic high schools, which are probably part of the subject of each other's law, is called the Law on High Schools, and on the third, if we reverse the logic a little bit, or maybe you think that artistic high schools are so easy and dance directions that students can decide to be parallel exclusively in this segment. According to our behavior, in the SDS Group, artistic high school is a musical and dance course for a very demanding educational system. We therefore wonder whether these high schools are really the only ones to receive this parallel education. From this city the question for the applicants: Why only these artistic high schools? In our view, this claim that students would be overburdened and, therefore, parallel education is possible only on the music and dance course programme. In our view, we should be more open in order for the system to work better. The organisation is much more possible and capable, as stated in this law, but it is true that much effort must be made to enable students to attend other modules at other schools, such as learning another foreign language at a neighbouring school. These problems, which in practice are not, but will be prevented by the law, are yet another thing. In our view, to end the problem of secondary education is a huge opportunity and it is completely pointless to focus on just one programme where parallel education is possible. For, last of all, whether a student is able to be educated in parallel at one art school or elsewhere, his career, his professional development, and so forth depends. And even the excuse that he's too busy, he can't stand it. The student simply decides to increase the number of hours, and this should be provided for in the law. In short, before concluding, unfortunately we find that a small step is taken, it is made too late, it is not made at the same time as the Law on apprenticeship and does not bring all those crucial solutions that we have proposed in the SDS in 2015. We believe that that marriage was much more consistent and also more substantively rich. We have already prepared certain amendments in the Group of Members. We look forward to the debate in the following discussions. It is likely that the Legislative and Legal Service will also provide certain preconditions and delays to improve the law, which still has some open issues. In our view, there are two key issues: parallel education and the issue or subject concerning the limitation of the duration of education, where we agree with the dictatorship that students must also be seriously prepared for the next stages of life, but be very sensitive about these issues, because we are talking about young people aged between 14 and 18 years, in short, at the beginning of a serious life. We also welcome the fact that, as an annex to this law, there are already sub-legislative acts. But you know what it's like to be married. If you have an unfinished marriage, then you have a lot more problems in implementing sublegal acts that usually get another connotation or content of their own, and, you know, the devil is always in detail — if the meaning is not right, then his bypasses may sound empty. And once again, we are talking about a very sensitive population, we are talking about young people who are being educated in vocational and vocational education, who are likely to continue to meet with the Labour Relations Act and we need to allow them with such legislation, which will be incomplete, not to prevent them from moving on with their lives. For if a student is threatened to go through four years of vocational and professional education, believe me, he will find it even harder to enter the labour market, where, at least according to previous forecasts, he will have 40 years to demonstrate what he has learned. And you know what John learns, so it is only right that John learns as much as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Ms Marinka Levičar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u138	Thank you very much, Chairman. Your Honor! In opening, I should point out that we in the Desus Group wondered why the proposal for a general discussion on this proposal did not require a discussion at the same time on the proposal for a new Law on High Schools. Both proposals are of similar concern and regulate if not the same substantive solution. It is true, however, that with one general debate on the same subject, we would not waste twice the time. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on Vocational and Professional Education, which is now in almost three hours' debate, does not, in fact, bring substantive novelties. The new law only improves the clarity of legal provisions and their consistency with other strategic documents, established practice and sub-legislative acts. It also takes into account the new circumstances and the harmonisation with other laws, which have a direct or indirect impact on vocational and vocational education. It is the Children's Guidance Act with special needs and the recently adopted Law on apprenticeship. In keeping with our position, I give our visions of this novel at just a few points, namely, in the next, to equalise the right to secondary vocational and professional education for foreigners who pay taxes and contributions to our citizens in our country, so that they want to improve their access to education, we understand that we must not avoid this, of course, because the migration process is a perfectly normal phenomenon. With regard to the provision of a course in Slovenian for pupils whose mother tongue is not Slovenian or who have not completed primary education in Slovenia, in order to enable more successful education, we would only give a warning to those present from the Ministry, if we are aware, that admission to secondary education, especially to some foreign nationals from Kosovo and Albania, is only a leapboard for obtaining residence and work status in Europe. The latter, as soon as the rights are acquired, move forward to the west and north of Europe. Of course, they have no interest in finishing school, so it is appropriate to consider how this can be avoided, why public funds are so inadvertently spent. With regard to the new conditions for enrolment of students with special needs, it is important that they maintain the current priority when entering. We also think that they need to reach an appropriate number of entry points. In our Group of Members, we agree that, while any shortage of health in nature must not be an obstacle to entry, we also agree that the criterion for achieving the minimum number of points from the lower limit, which is designed as an entry threshold, is fully meaningful. In our parliamentary group, we understand this as a guardian for young people, as many times it happens that during the course of schooling it shows that, despite a special individualised programme, they are unable to meet the relevant standards of knowledge. On the limitation of the duration of student status, which will reduce the possibility of fictitious enrollment and resolve this issue in the draft law with regard to the repetition of the year and the subscription to other schools and the possibility of conducting a vocational course, a little more than one word below. Indeed, the issue of fictitious entries is of particular concern. We know that admission to a higher education institution is either a condition for a status that brings benefits, such as health insurance, student vouchers, work through a student service, and, finally, a family pension after a deceased parent. We also know that this does not benefit only young people who take advantage of the possibility of entry and subsequent status only for specific reasons. The reasons behind this are very different. The most receptive and worrying one is that they take advantage of their status just to be able to work because they do not get regular employment. We read and hear, we even know who the potential employer forced into this form of work, because, under the terms "can't," that means in legal and real language, he doesn't want to work, even though his profile is absolutely necessary. It's sad, but it's real. There's no offense to young people who are impersonally enrolled in schools. In the Desus Group, we believe that young people are trying to get a job, that they want to become independent and create their own family in the future. According to our assessment, it is not justifiable for us to understand employers who resort to excuses that they cannot work for financial reasons or for the uncertainty of their business. We are in our client and will also be alerting us in the future to the traps and weaknesses of excessive student work. Therefore, we now welcome the amendment of this law to restrict itself if it does not completely prevent the playing of the basic purpose of student work, which is certainly not in the place of regular and safe working relationships. In this mandate, the Higher Education Act has already been amended, which has also affected the duration of student status, and in our opinion it is right that the State has finally recognised fictitious entry as a problem. At the same time, in our parliamentary group, while preventing the abuse of student and student status as far as possible to gain benefits, we also advocate that education is accessible to everyone. We believe that it is possible to find a solution that will not restrict access to education and will, at the same time, allow appropriate criteria, conditions or, if you wish, some protective mechanisms in the educational process to ensure that entry into any educational programme will not allow students' status to be played for all other foreign interests. Members and Members of Desus agree that the law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u140	Thanks again for saying that. And say hello to everyone again! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Vocational and Vocational Education is, somehow, a continuation of the debate that we have just carried out in large part and content in the National Assembly, when we talked about the Law on apprenticeship, which introduced a new way of education in the educational system, which will be implemented in practice only in the coming months. And the law, which is also supported by the European Union's funds, is highly expected to contribute to reducing the obvious gap between education of job seekers and labour market needs. Somehow upgrading all these efforts, we estimate, is today's Vocational and Vocational Education Act, which, in particular, reinforces the importance of entrepreneurship, creativity and innovation as tasks of secondary and vocational education. Through the definition of the tasks of the Chamber, it also contains extensions that enable dual education, a proposal for a law is of greater importance for secondary, vocational and vocational education in other areas. Among other areas, particular emphasis would be placed on those who improve access to education. Such a proposal allows for the participation of foreign citizens who pay taxes and contributions to secondary education. From the point of view of successful education, it is also important to provide a Slovenian course for pupils whose language is not native to Slovenia. We are also pleased that the evaluation and recognition of the various skills and skills acquired at the legal level beyond the formal education process will be regulated. We also agree with those who recognize the opportunity in this regard to increase the potential for mobility and to promote lifelong learning. Therefore, accessibility to education and its quality at all levels and in all age periods of an individual is a key prerequisite for everyone to make full use of their potential. This is why we point to Article 8 of the bill restricting the right to receive an education under the vocational course only to those who have previously graduated from the 4th year of high school. We believe that the possible implementation of the provision would put those who have completed the final year of secondary or vocational education and who already have the option of joining the vocational course after the regulation. We would point out, however, that the provision will also apply to all who wish to make a change in their career path and will not be able to do so unless they have completed their final year of high school. Therefore, in this first reading, we are giving the Social Democrats the initiative to delete this restriction at the second reading, if not earlier in the law, at least at the meeting of the home labour body, and to maintain the current regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u142	Your Honor! Like students, according to a new proposal from the Ministry of Education, which we are considering today, students will be able to take advantage of only one repetition or one copy during the course of education. The law also provides for a few exceptions, namely a student with special needs, a student who is being co-educated, a prospective and top-notch athlete, a student due to parenthood, illness or exceptional family or social circumstances, exceptionally prolonged by two school years. With this amendment and the amendment of the law, it is therefore the end of imaginary or so-called fictitious entries. The reasons for the visual registrations are work through a student's passport, insurance by parents, discounts on income and a cheaper ticket. The Ministry has been promising the regulation of such a problem for some time now, and today's treatment of the law is the first step in this direction. A young person with a diploma and without a job can apply for a job and seek a job, and another option is a virtual admission of one of the schools implementing the adult education programme. At this school he pays a subscription of between 150 and 350 euros, and he acquires the status of a student with whom he can work smoothly through a student’s passport by the end of the school year. To date, this has also masked the unemployment of young diplomats, since they have not been registered at the employment agency. The law provides for some other adjustments, especially through the Law on apprenticeship, which we adopted in the National Assembly this year. It equates the rights to secondary education for foreigners who are taxable persons or taxable persons to their parents and who are educated under the same conditions as nationals of the Republic of Slovenia or nationals of the Member States of the European Union. It also regulates the verification of apprenticeships which are now transferred from the law to the law by means of institutions and the procedure for the verification of teaching places, the content of the register of apprenticeships and the establishment of a single register of apprenticeships at the state level. In the New Slovenia Group we will support the amendment of the law at first reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u143	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec has the word. He's not here. Mrs. Iva Dimic, here we go again.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Yes, we will take one step further in order, however, for our students to come or later students to some such employment. I cannot go beyond what I have already said in my position that many times, even with fictitious entries, statistics have been resolved, that even in the European Union we have a very low rate of youth unemployment. You know, that was a phenomenon. When we met at certain seminars, as well as last week in Rogaška Slatina, we had one such seminar within the European Union and within the EPP also an area for the association of workers, it was highlighted how Slovenia led, however, a bright point on what Member States should do for such low youth unemployment. But in fact, with some fictitious entries, we allowed this unemployment to not be registered. Otherwise, I am sure that there was a great deal among young people, so perhaps Slovenia is a little behind in the activation of young people for the first job. We only accepted this two years ago, while the representative of Lithuania, who was at the seminar, was a 27-year-old young boy who has been doing this for several years. It is said that on the one hand, we wanted to help, and we pulled ourselves a little by hand with the possibility of fictitious entries, and on the other hand, things were actually, perhaps in some way unfair, unfair to teachers, to teachers who taught for the elderly at this school. Many times, we also received in writing at the time 2012, 2013 that teachers simply felt powerless. They had a fictitious enrolment of students or students for virtually the whole class, and two or three came to the lectures. Maybe even some kind of object. I believe that, as a teacher, I would certainly feel uncomfortable about this and yet I would say that the state and government should do something in this area to make the work fair, even through fictitious entries, even through student travel, that there must be some honesty in this area in the country. This law will, of course, allow this to happen. I believe that for a lot of people it's a shock, just like it was a shock, that even in college you can pause or repeat, and here I believe it's a shock. But if we all work this way, I'm sure we'll have good students along with the education system. The system, however, I think it is comparable to the system in the European Union and that we do not have any other practice elsewhere and that this will make it more normal and normal Slovenia. From this title, of course, I will also support this amendment of the law in my first reading. True, however, what seems to me most sad in some way is that students or students may be forced to work in some way. It seems to me that the state needs to ensure that they have the means to study regularly. This is the task of the state and us, without being forced to work because of some social status, and then sometimes they run out, we know how, two, three points to progress into what year. I think we're on the right track. And I hope for good results, especially for successful young people, educated and, of course, satisfied, that they will still get good jobs that will be well paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mrs Vesna Vervega has the floor to prepare Mrs Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, everyone else present, nice greeting! This is how it would start, the fact is that since May 2017 we have a law on apprenticeship. The fact is, in the field of secondary education, we have two other laws regulating education and education in this segment, namely the Law on High Schools and the Law on Vocational and Vocational Education. And after the adoption of the Law on apprenticeship, we received in the National Assembly both other laws and their amendments. These amendments to both laws were also necessary due to the adoption of the Law on apprenticeship, but of course both proposed changes, which are somewhat broader in nature, as we have already heard today, which respond to various social changes. This is, more importantly, informal education, migration policy, the inclusion of these foreign children, then new educational content, the possibility of parallel education, the rights and duties of students and so on. Of course, as I have heard now in my views, this measure has caused the most controversy to limit the duration of education, which is also linked to amendments to the Law on High Schools. I just want to say my point of view, which I kind of take from experience and from current events. What positive effects does this restriction have, and what must we pay attention to? It is, and I agree with the fact that some argue that the growing scope of these fictitious enrolments is also in secondary schools not only in higher education institutions and that the reasons for this are different. And measures to limit these must be fairly broad, covering other areas not only education and education. So, how do you reduce these fictitious entries? I think that in the educational system, fictitious entries should be properly evaluated and appropriate measures taken. I agree with what is written in the bill that our education and education system is very open and allows for transition at both horizontal and vertical levels. I personally very much agree with this. This must be maintained, but at a certain point we must also ask ourselves about the responsibility of each individual, whether he is a student or a student. How many chances does he have? I've heard some claim before that in the ninth grade, he has to decide one direction, one program, and then he doesn't have a chance anymore. That's not true under this law, he still has one option. If there are exceptions to whether it is a child with special needs or a good athlete, then it has even more options — two years. So we have to somehow weigh on one side the responsibility and then the possibility that somehow we don't lock it in some system and say, you decided at fifteen, and you can't change your decision anymore. So that this measure or this solution in the law seems very acceptable. Then the next thing you could mention as a starting point is, of course, on the working body, we will discuss this, these are vocational courses and question 8 of Article 8, which has been particularly exposed. Students who have opted for a high school program have completed this program when they graduate. In the event that the student completes the fourth year positively and does not graduate, he does not actually have a completed secondary education. These students, I met myself through my work, there weren't many of them, but they just didn't have the opportunity to finish at this secondary level of my education. This enabled them to take a vocational course, which was set up or organised for this purpose before 2006. Is it right to maintain the professional course as it was before 2006? Should we give other students the opportunity that this law, now in force, enabled them to continue? I think, of course, we're going to talk about this, that it's a matter of some decision, of harmonisation, maybe of arguments for, of course, against what it means. It is also right to hear from the Ministry how many such students there are, what this means for the whole system, or in fact to whom we prevent the completion of this secondary education in such a way. These are only a short starting point for the treatment of the parent working body, but I believe that this law brings very good changes in several areas of education and education and not only those where it is necessary. That is why, of course, we will support him in this first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u147	Thank you very much. We've got some log-outs. Mr. Jean Mahnič has the floor. Prepare Mr Ivan Škodnik and Mr Jožef Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u148	Thank you for your word, Mr. Hainz. Dear Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! I will also support this law in the first reading, and I certainly expect to continue the full debate on the amendments to be tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party. But I do have one question for you, Madam Secretary of State, given the words we have heard, and given what the law says: do we now have apprenticeship or do we not have it? This is the main issue, given that we adopted the Law on apprenticeship in May, today we are re-adopting a new law, or are amending an existing one, then we do not have the law on high school, and I think that a more serious approach would make it more elegant for us to even have an integrated debate, which is that all the laws relating to this area could be obtained in a package on a table. If there was any serious change to know that I am not at all mentioning that we are getting laws on the table in the last year before the parliamentary elections, I really do not know whether it took three years of coordination and all to put together some of these articles or to correct existing ones. It would definitely be possible to arrange some areas for this law, which we are dealing with today, to give a new subsection or new chapters and the matter will be elegantly resolved, not to discuss the same matter three times in this House and, of course, to adopt some of the things that will be defined in two or three laws, an additional law, and thus to create additional rules that we know are already too much in Slovenia. If I am precise, we have more than 20,000 legal and legal acts, which is why we have adopted in the SDS at the congress and in the resolution that for every new regulation that we will adopt, two of us will end when we are in the government. So that's one of the questions. Of course, I agree with everyone, even in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have repeatedly proposed amendments in this mandate, we have proposed the introduction of apprenticeships, because the numbers that are today and present reality in the labour market are worrying and show exactly the opposite of what Minister Anja Kopač Dark is selling to us here in Parliament and the Social Democrats, how they successfully lead the employment policy, how the number of unemployed decreases and so on. And I will not go into the record of how unemployment is managed, but surely the question that makes sense when we say that unemployment is falling, where then employment is rising, or when we listen to how much unemployment has been reduced, and it is approaching those years 2007, 2008 is reasonable to ask what is the difference between 2007 and 2008, the end of Janša's first government, when the lowest unemployment in Slovenia's history, and the one that is to be approached today, or is far from that figure of $60,000. If we look at December 2008 and January 2017, legal persons employed: December 2008 718 thousand, January 2017 687 thousand. Now, of course, public sector employees: December 2008 155 thousand, January 2017 173 thousand; private sector employees: December 2008 562 thousand, January 514 thousand; private employees: December 2008 72 thousand, January 2017 48 thousand; private employees themselves, especies or, above all, those on-call jobs: December 2008 56 thousand 800, January 2017 69 thousand 500. These are real figures, such as the employment policy led by the Social Democrats and the Minister for Labour, the Family, Mrs Anja Kopač Dark. Yes, lowering unemployment, but ladies and gentlemen, what we have to ask ourselves is, where does this employment increase? And we saw it in the public sector. I ask you, Madam Secretary of State, how much this law, or how much apprenticeship will have to do with the public sector, the answer is nothing, the answer is nothing. And the other thing is, we see what employment is like in the private sector. It stagnates, falls, and falls employment for those who have their own businesses, in espies, and increases those who open their espionage for as long as they receive those subsidies and certain awards given by the Ministry of Labour, so that they can then say that unemployment is declining. In short, the employment policy run by the SD means only one, more public sector employees and more those who open espies for as long as they receive covered allowances. However, employment in the private sector and, of course, in the private sector is declining. My question, Madam Secretary of State, is now: Can we expect this proposal of amendments you have made to work that we will not witness the rise of employees only in the public sector, but in private and private sectors that will continue to fall? How much have you coordinated with the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and the equal opportunities of the Social Democrats in this process? Those are the real questions. With the exception of those who sell some flossules and prefer to introduce some Venezuelan models when they say that apprenticeship is exploitation, now I don't know what exploitation can be like if you train a young person to get as close as possible to the work process that will wait for him after working in the real sector, but these are ideological debates that some cannot, when they speak, know with what words, against craftsmen, when they say that employers and craftsmen and all, in short, those who create added value, are forced into overturn and so on. The other part, I can say, is a normal part of this Parliament, which understands how things work, I think that these people should be encouraged to give those young people who want their trades, who want their businesses, that they should be told that the state will come to their counters here, with reliefs, with such assistance and other assistance, rather than being pushed by bayonets into the abysses, as we are listening to from the left side, the left side, not the whole left side, because there is also about a normal part of the left in this Parliament, which supports these matters and who knows how it works, and in particular what added value is the dual school system, the apprenticeship system, so that we can then get quality jobs for those who create some added value in society. In short, I would like you to answer these questions, and what changes we can then look forward to in the second reading, when amendments will be tabled, which will somehow try to go in this direction, as colleagues Lisec mentioned earlier, which is why I did not repeat in the position of the Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Škodnik has the floor to prepare Mr Tomaž Lisec and Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u150	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and fellow Members! Today, when we are considering the Law on Vocational and Vocational Education, I have actually listened very carefully at the outset when representatives of the parliamentary groups presented their views. I certainly cannot agree with the position of the Left that this law does not actually bring this, but something else. This law does not interfere with the concept of vocational education, but only wants to improve it to a certain extent, certain parts of it, in order to make it more effective and, of course, that vocational education will be better. This is actually the purpose of this law. Of course, it also covers the accessibility of education to foreign citizens, which I think is right, because we talk about this a lot, but now they have no equal opportunities, even though they pay us taxes and all the other contributions. Today there was a lot of speech and the law itself states that the law is related to the adoption of last year's law on apprenticeship. There's a lot of talk now about apprenticeship, that it's wrong to work, but I need to stop here. Much has been done, but it is true that the law has been passed a little late, that the problems with certain teaching places have been a problem, that at this work, that this has been taken up by chambers, both crafts and economics, and I think that in the following year and then these matters will be more avoided, that young people will decide on this in a larger number and we will reach that workforce as well as colleagues on the left say that it is lacking in the economy. I would also say that our ministry and our apprenticeship party are very supportive, as well as all the things related to economic legislation. This novel also establishes a procedure for the validation of teaching cities, as I said before, including apprenticeships. We do know, however, that we had a dual form before apprenticeship, and the students have already been partially trained in an economy outside the school workshop. However, this will be further defined and accepted in the Central Register of Learning Cities. I mentioned earlier the Chamber of Commerce and Economics, which are strongly involved here. Many may wonder why it is so difficult, but why can’t some verify a learning city? The minimum conditions are therefore laid down for the establishment of such a learning place. The first is a safe workplace, which must be suitable, equipment and also conditions for the mentor, where we have often stopped. In fact, there is a need for some basic education or work experience, but everything else is actually going to the employers, so that the state does not complicate it that those who want and who want to educate apprentices cannot verify the job. Finally, the Chambers shall issue a decision stating that these employers fulfil these conditions for education. I think these things are running, and there's not gonna be any reservations here. Of course, I would like to point out here that at present only four professions in precisely defined schools are being trained in apprenticeships, but that there will probably be more in the next year. A lot of interest, as I've heard, is to introduce the profession of wallpaper as soon as possible. Just in Slovenj Gradc, Koroškem, a new production is opening to replace the wallpaper production of New equipment, which has been known in the Slovenian space in the past. So these jobs will, also, provide scholarships and I think there will be five learning places. It is also worth considering in this direction to support the economy on this side as well. With regard to fictitious entries, I would mention that I myself have been monitoring because I have been working in education for quite some time, of course this has appeared more in recent years, that there has been a deficiency in the existing law or, as we say, a domestic loophole in the law, that students could be enrolled in secondary school programmes and so on. In fact, everything else in this law, both those who repeat and then educate or change the program, remains the same. In all these changes, to say that work is to the detriment of the students, there is nowhere to be detected and certainly will not be. It is only in a good education system and that the country will, in fact, allocate funds more rationally, if we say so. As for the professional course, I think we'll talk about this more on the board. I expect that there will be a lot of comments about these things, and then there will be a lot of time on the Education Committee, so that we can see these things, so that when we finally adopt this law, it will live to the right extent. However, in this part, I support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor. Prepare Mr Janko Weber and Mr Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u152	Yes, thank you again, Madam Vice President! Perhaps even briefly, given the discussions of the predecessors, that we will know in the competent parental body all the open questions that have been raised today, both in the views of individual parliamentary groups and in the debates of Members, which I greatly appreciate, because, above all, the two predecessors of the largest coalition party come from practical work, that is to say, we know the system much more than we do, which we have only heard in implementation, that in this law, after we have all prepared amendments together, as we have already said, in the SDS Group, we will probably have some amendments on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, that are needed in such a law as to be a system law in the field of professional and professional education, we will not go to that old one, in this mandate at all, and this is what comes from the coalition, which is all-powerful and what comes from the failure is from the side. I am sure, also in view of the knowledge of people working in the SDS's educational professional council, that these are people who do not act solely on the political concept of action, but, like many in this National Assembly, are familiar with the practice of professional and professional education. And that's why I've been calling from this town that when you see the amendments that will be written by the PS SDS proponent, it's not about some fun fun, but that it's worth reading really thoroughly and hopefully, I hope so, most of them also read. As far as this apprenticeship system goes, I'm not coming back, we've told it all. Above all, we hope that, although we believe that a special law on apprenticeship was not necessary for the first time, secondly, is not optimal. We hope for a third, which is that it will start to be implemented and, above all, reward. Once again, I would focus on the two issues that I have already discussed in the position of the Group of Members, which is that we really need to pay attention to the issue of limiting the duration of education, as has already been said, in the SDS Group we agree that those fictitious entries that have pursued all other objectives than the objective of quality education should be limited as much as possible. On the other hand, it is of course the fact that we only need to see that there are different situations, unfortunately, in recent times mainly social components that prevent young and young students and their families from implementing the secondary level of education in a qualitative manner. Also from this city, once again, the appeal that we all really together before the meeting of the parent working body is to consider whether it is exclusively a programme of artistic high school, music and dance direction, the one who is the only one and the only one who will be given the right to parallel education. Once again, I hope that this has not come from the opinion of anyone that this programme is so easy that only parallel education can be carried out on this programme. And the third thing, which may or may not be a bit out of the context of this law, is the problem of student homes that touch on students who are educated in vocational and professional education. Here the Secretary of State has a concrete example from the congregation from which I come, from Sevnica, when we somehow want young people who are educated in vocational and professional education, when we want to give them an incentive to provide them with a roof on their head, whether this roof is called either a student or a Youth hostel, however, if we cannot give them one from Koroška to Sevnica, if we cannot give him a roof under his head, he will not learn.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Jurša has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u154	Vice President, thank you for your word. I say hello to all my colleagues! I don't want to discuss this issue across and across, but I want to focus on a problem that I think has already been exposed to. I would like to add something to this, because I think that this issue is quite a problem and it is being addressed in an appropriate way. I'm assessing that the Ministry is slowly slowly making a good deal of law. It also wishes to coordinate them in an appropriate and appropriate manner and to take into account the comments made in the parliamentary groups. If I said I was going to talk about one segment, it's a fictitious entry or a restriction on the permanent status of a student. This is a very interesting topic that we have been talking about for a very long time. It is, as I have already mentioned, long-standing, very large and very hot. As we are all aware, the condition for admission to a higher education or a higher education institution is a condition. More or less young people take advantage of this condition. However, I must say that this status also brings some benefits. And of course, these benefits also make it possible for young people to sign in, but it is also good to say, which is why young people want to take advantage of these benefits. The cause and consequence are here. In this case, health insurance is of course very important in many cases, and it is also important that young people receive student vouchers, that they have the right transport and that they can work through student service. And there's, in my opinion, the key and problem number one if I can call it that. I know that these benefits by making young people work are not only young people, if we can even say that this is a benefit, but also employers, here I mean, in quotations, student service and those companies or institutions that employ these young people. All good and right, that would be a small scale, but this is an ever-increasing scale, because at some point when you don't need them anymore, you can literally send them on the road at any time. If we were to offer other opportunities for young people, we would, of course, like to take advantage of these other opportunities. You know what worries me the most? That among these companies, which employ our young people in this way, there are also many companies in state ownership. And these are companies that are terribly well-standing, which each year increase the production volume, which increases the profits each year, but the employees have a lot of students. These are not students who would work in these companies for one or a maximum of two years. In some well-known companies where the country owns more than 25%, young people work after five years. I don't think it's bad for young people, they're working mainly to create some social status, to actually get to providing this, of course, they want to create a family, they want to become independent, they want to get a job on a regular basis, so that they can also get a solution to the housing problem. We all know that a young man can never have enough money to suddenly buy his apartment. If he gets a regular job, of course, he gets the opportunity to rent a loan at the same time, to secure an adequate apartment, so that his family can be formed, and that the family can live in this apartment. I think this is now a key issue that our community must resolve. When we resolve this, that we will have as few unemployed as possible in employment institutions and that students will actually only study, then we will achieve two very important goals. In fact, we will make it possible for the young generation to have a significantly better life than it had during the economic crisis and in the period from 2008 to one year ago.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u155	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which she is given the floor by the representative of the Government, Mrs Andreja Barle Lakota. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u156	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, I would like to thank you for all the comments and, above all, for the debate. Education is too important to ask who said something. It is primarily about developing a system together that will, of course, enable our young people to have a future. Therefore, the debate in which you spoke about discussing secondary education three times should not, in fact, be an obstacle. Why does he come to her three times? Why the Law of Accomplishment? In fact, it must be realized that before we could create a system of apprenticeships – you know very well, you participated in discussions on how much difficulties there were with the introduction of apprenticeships again – before this system was designed, it was not possible to correct the Law on Vocational and Vocational Education and the Law on High Schools. Believe me, we have already carried out activities and procedures at the Ministry to bring everything together into a single secondary school law, and this has simply not been possible until the procedures before us have been carried out. Do we have the apprenticeship or don't we have it? I assure you, we have apprenticeship. I wish that you too would like to discuss how all the procedures are going, to really introduce and have apprenticeship. So whenever I'm ready to tell you all the details about how apprenticeship is being introduced. Some of the doubters in this room, as you know, I am not only talking about Parliament, but there was so much distrust in the Slovenian space that it was already difficult to overcome mistrust in fact. However, gradually and slowly, together with the chambers and with the schools, I think we are on the right track. Actually, I know we're on our way. How do I know that? The Slovaks, who were helped by even foreign chambers, began with twenty, and more Slovaks, began with twenty apprentices. There are 53 of them with us, knowing you well that there were so many concerns about apprenticeship that we could only be happy that we managed to have so many apprentices. All the procedures we carry out, with all our conscience and responsibility, lead to my conviction that apprenticeship will come to life on a greater scale in the next school year. I'd like to take a look at the fictitious entries. The main concern of all of you was for so-called fictitious entries. Believe that this was our main concern in the preparation of the marriage. Why is he actually going? We are considering how to focus education and the objectives that we need to pursue in education while at the same time addressing social issues within the education system. That's why he's actually going. We are certainly not responsible, we are certainly not indifferent to this subject, but we need to know that our primary objective is quality, quality education. What do all fictitious bring? You said it yourself. On the one hand, they are solving the problem of these students, and on the other hand, it is necessary to realize that such status also allows for full abuse. I hope that, in parallel to social policy, we can also close these issues well. But at the end of the day, let me remind you that it is precisely because of the concern that we have had when we were discussing fictitious entries that this article sets out about, once again, you can repeat, you can turn the program into a lower programme and you can get two more years on the basis of the specific circumstances that the school is discussing, let's say the socio-economic problem that an individual is facing. So if you read the article correctly, it's actually quite a few years that allow you to complete your student status. So what I would like to say to you once again is that we are not indifferent to the issue of not just solving education-related issues, but that, at the end of the day, we will have to consider both aspects at the end of the decision on what the law will look like. Let me once again thank you for all the comments and suggestions and ensure that we will examine everything for the sake of the students thoroughly.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u157	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the General Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I guess not. That is why I am also concluding the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Tuesday 26 in accordance with the meeting's timetable. 9, in the framework of the votes. This also interrupts this agenda item. We're moving to 29. On the day-to-day basis, it's a counter-intelligence report on a parliamentary investigation into the Farrokh case. The interim report was submitted to the meeting by the Commission of Inquiry on the identification of abuses in the Slovenian banking system and the identification of the causes and responsibilities for the second resolution of the banking system in Slovenia alone. The interim report is public and will be considered by the assembly at a public meeting. The components of the interim report are also an additional interim report, which is marked by the degree of tax secrecy and the degree of bank secrecy under Article 125 of the Banking Act, and another supplementary interim report, which is in accordance with the Law on Secret Data with internal, confidential and secret degrees and the degree of tax secrecy and the degree of bank secrecy under Article 125 of the Banking Act. In view of the above, the assembly, pursuant to Article 101(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, will consider those additional interim reports at a meeting closed to the public, following the meeting of the Assembly tomorrow, 22. 9:00 p.m., 10:00 p.m. All the debaters are so requested that you do not provide information from the supplementary interim report and other additional interim reports which are not available to the public in the public debate. We are moving on to a debate on the interim report, the key findings and the draft decision to be taken in public. For further explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the applicant, the President of the Commission of Inquiry, Dr Anjet Logar. Dr. Logar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u158	I hope time doesn't run out because you gave me the picrus. Dear Members, respectable government, distinguished viewers! Money laundering is a popular name for the process in which financial transactions are made to conceal the real source of funds. The Anti-Money Laundering Office has published key features of such a crime on its website, the placement of funds, the concealment of the origin of money, integration. The commission of inquiry dealt with the Farrokh case in Nova Ljubljanska Banka. In the case of Farrokh, exactly all three categories described are completed by the pussy. In accordance with the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism, we therefore have reasonable suspicions of money laundering and terrorist financing on board or had it in the NLB, the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering, the Bank of Slovenia and the holders of political functions between 2009 and 2010, although they argue otherwise today. Let me point out, we're talking about the suspicion of money laundering. Proveting a crime has a higher standard of evidence and is a matter of law enforcement, not of our investigators or investigators. Dear one, who else knows the case that weighs one billion euros, has been going on for two years, has been introduced to about 100 people and has not come to the public. I don't think you know of any additional cases. In a thorough examination of the documents obtained and seized, we can find that they were responsible for NLB, at the Anti-Money Laundering Office, in Banka Slovenije and in politics I do not hear anything, I do not see anything, I do not say anything. Why? I don't know. However, Nova Ljubljanska banka had an interesting slogan at the time: I know why. Let's get back to business. The media has already written about the fact that the New Ljubljana Bank has allowed a British Iranian citizen for two years to transfer funds from Iran to EU accounts, Canada, Russia, the United States of America and elsewhere. Within two years, one billion euro will arrive at the New Ljubljana Bank, and this money will be transferred to some 30,000 accounts or recipients. In addition, Iran was under special restrictive measures of the international community during that period, and the Iranian bank, through which most of the funds came, was even on the list of companies not to operate in the EU area since July 2010, except in the apparently largest NLB State Bank. The report before you consists of three separate but interconnected parts. An open part where information that has already been published is a closed part where we describe what is happening within the New Ljubljana Bank and the regulator's conduct and represent banking secrecy, and the secret part where intelligence is misled. The essential findings at the end of the open part are detailed in the two closed parts of the report and have concrete cases to follow. In the public debate, I'm going to allow myself a little more creativity. I will present business practice in NLB regarding the Farrokh case in hypothetical cases, which may not even be hypothetical. There was already a lot of talk in the public about the unusual purposes of remittances implemented by Nova Ljubljanska Banka, such as the purpose of the remittance: the purchase of fitness equipment, frozen chickens, living expenses, the purchase of a house. By the way, how much did your good uncles from Iran charge an e-banking bill of 150 thousand euros to buy a house? I don't think so. The recipients of remittances are also interesting. On the basis of the list of the lucky farrokhzadahs, it is clear today that Ana Karenina is still alive, even though after Tolstoy’s novel in the 1970 ’ s she threw herself under a train. You may find this odd, even suspicious, to be responsible at the New Ljubljana Bank. Or the next piece of information. The youngest will be most pleased with this information. There's a Superman. He lives in Germany and lives off the sale of clues. However, it is financed by no one other than Farrokh or by a foreign bank because of suspicion it prevented the continuation of transactions in its accounts. Now I don't know what more I resent the State's New Ljubljana Bank, that it didn't even seem suspicious to those responsible in NLB, or that they were empowered in NLB and committed to knowing where Superman lived at the beginning of 2010, but our youngest left behind in ignorance. And we're responsible. So far, no one's figured it out. Regulation of the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism. With one sentence: The administration of the Office in the Farrokh case was scandalous, unworthy institutions which bear such a name, irresponsibly, even in cities with no expertise, lameness, past the principles of public servants. But the current director of the office, Mr. Andrej Plaussteiner, still has a comfortable job at the office. Only in Slovenia. That is why we have also decided unanimously on the Commission of Inquiry, in a particular case, the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering has not carried out its tasks, has acted superficially, unprofessionally, has failed to take into account warnings coming from abroad, while at the same time carrying out its task as a supervisory authority. Such conduct is subject to objective and subjective responsibility by the Director at the time. Regulation of regulators. Interestingly, it is a billion-dollar business, and you will find few mentions of business in Banka Slovenije documents. Maybe I'm hearing a little less, a little less, I'm not saying anything. Although the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism was adopted in 2007, the regulator did not systematically verify this area until August 2010 in business banks. By the end of 2010, however, the Bank of Slovenia had written an order on the Farrokh case, and in April 2012 had initiated a criminal proceeding against those responsible in the NLB, it had stopped all of this in June 2012. Withdraw all criminal claims and close the order. A beautiful world where you don't have to explore suspicions at the biggest state bank, and that's why no one breathes as a collar, even though you're a regulator and you're a caller and you're paid for it. The question that is in place is this: would it be possible for a regulator to blow the collar if he continued the criminal procedure and the investigation of the case? Also due to the lack of regulatory activity on the Board of Inquiry, we agreed unanimously that Banka Slovenije's regulator for the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing had not systematically supervised, allowed the largest state bank to have a non-active system for money laundering prevention, thereby leaving Banka Slovenije to play its regulatory role and created a systemic risk in the Slovenian banking market. The management of the New Ljubljana Bank. In the Slovenian banks, traditionally the largest payment traffic is operated by the largest companies. Would we therefore be able to determine which company had the largest or the largest payment transaction through the New Ljubljana Bank, as much as 5% of the total payment turnover carried out by this bank? Telekom, Krka, maybe Gorenje? Telekom would probably be a safe bet given that we're on the phone with his phones and that he's a big company. Wrong! The largest payment turnover in NLB was created in 2010 by an undertaking from the tax oasis. You won't believe it. He hears the name of Farrokh. If I tell you that this company's initial capital was exactly two dollars, you have to ask me the following questions. How is it possible that a tax oasis company with two dollars of fixed capital through the largest state bank will spend one billion euros in the banking system, and that does not seem suspicious to anyone in the NLB? And then I say to you, "I don't know." But I know it's about time the law enforcement authorities found the answer. We have also decided unanimously on the Commission of Inquiry that, during this period, there was a virtually ineffective system of prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, for which the administrations of the day bear objective and subjective responsibility, and that the bank's management was thoroughly aware of the company's operations and that, despite the warnings of the internal structures, this business could only continue because of the support of the administration. And political responsibility. The business cooperation of the State NLB and Farrokh and the international risks involved were informed in detail by the President of the Republic of Danilo Türk, Prime Minister of Government Borut Pahor, Finance Minister Franci Križanič, Justice Minister Aleš Zalar, Interior Minister Katarina Kresal. You think someone did something? No, none of them. They did not notify the KPK, to which they swore so much at the time, not the prosecution, but they should for hygiene reasons. Why didn't they warn the prosecution? I don't know again. But I do know that no one asks them about the reasons even today. I should have. That is why, in the investigative commission, we wrote in key findings: "The entire political summit of the day has been thoroughly informed of the suspicions that accompany the operation of Commissioner Farrokhzadeh with the State NLB, but has not acted. In doing so he bears subjective and objective responsibility because he has abandoned his duty.« Has anyone answered the above-mentioned question to this day? No, no, no. But some were rewarded. When KPK was thoroughly informed of the Farrokh case, Rok Praprotnik also sat in its leadership. Although KPK was involved in the process of determining the alleged corrupt behaviour of managers in NLB, the Farrokh case was not mentioned in the later report on the basis of this investigation, but the position of senior management in the NLB hierarchy was given directly to KPK Ruk Praprotnik. He has become the chairman of the Centre for Business Compliance, to which he is directly subordinate, you will not believe, the authority to prevent money laundering. So when he arrived at NLB, did the Praprotenik open an investigation? The answer is no. Come in. The head of the NLB branch, Ljubljana, Center, where the business was owned by Iraj Farrokhzadeh, was Tanja Ahlin. She was well aware of the case as she participated in crisis meetings on the subject of Farrokh and was also the recipient of the internal NLB audit on the subject. In the meantime, it has advanced to the post of Director responsible for the NLB business network and, according to some information, is the right-hand date for the current NLB Board of Directors, Blaž Brodnjak. According to media disclosures, has at least a new NLB money laundering officer, to whom, we will recall, Chief Praprotnik, started to examine the matter? The Bank's Business Coherence Centre, which we have recapitalised twice in 20 years, should probably say something about this. It's not. He sent this e-mail to his subordinates, saying, among other things: "I believe that on the basis of the newspaper articles we cannot open a harmful event if there are no other material facts, knowing that the material facts have the very nature of Nova Ljubljanska Banka itself. No formal proceedings have been opened in relation to this case, so on the basis of 8 years old cases we do not expect any penalties, as all cases are closed.” Yeah, hold on. All proceedings were completed until the investigation committee shook the case. And now the police and the D.A. have opened an investigation that isn't out of date and won't be for a while. But he's in a hurry for another reason. Under the internal rules in NLB, they delete all documentation after 10 years. At the end of 2018, they will start, believe me, very conscientiously deleting all documentation from each of the 30,000 remittances, electronic messages, conclusions and other important documents that enable the recovery of the business relationship between NLB and Iraj Farrokhzadeh. And if the law enforcement authorities don't move forward, this documentation will be lost forever. While I still have a lot to say, since they have given me only 15 minutes of time, I will conclude this part and only suggest to Members that you support the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u159	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text shall be given by the Group of Non-Aligned Members, for which Dr. Bojan Dobovšek has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u160	All those who accompany this meeting are respected! Why this meeting is so important for the future of Slovenia. These are financial flows that need to be monitored, which need to remain in Slovenia, from which the tax is collected and from which we will have money for hospitals, for education and everything we have at this meeting, which is a problem. I'm talking about the financial crime that brought us into the financial crisis that we've filled up again, the bank hole, the taxpayers. And it was because of the bank hole that the parliamentary commission of inquiry was created to determine why this bank hole had occurred. Part, one piece of mosaic of this bank hole is the documents we're dealing with today. Dr. Logar mentioned the danger of the paperwork disappearing. That was the plan to erase all documentation. We know that some documentation in the famous transfer to e-commerce has been destroyed, intentionally, unintentionally, but it seems that everything could be destroyed as well. The damage was done to people and damage to the country as well. When some people say it's a shame when we reveal it. I mean, the other side already knows that's what's been going on with us. How do you fix it? To find out, investigate, and put in place mechanisms to ensure that this will no longer occur. What am I talking about? The elite criminality of the highest levels in society, the relationship of the political economy and financial institutions. This is a fraction of those who deal with this kind of crime and shed a bad light on all three sectors. Why is the image of us Members so bad? Because of those couples who blacked out this profession. Of course, the media helped. Why is this crime so successful? Because these people have used the help of so - called white - collar criminals, financial experts who have helped them to do these things. It is the elements of money laundering, concealing the origin of property, then money mysteriously disappears and turns into unsuspecting values, returns as a clean way to buy companies that are now very cheap in Slovenia. However, we have gone even further in Slovenia. I'm talking about the whitewashing case. In addition to washing, let's add a stain remover. Who are you? These are the lawyers who will let us know that what we've done is not criminal at all. These are the ones who pressured the law that it was such that what was happening would not be punished. A typical example of our history is the abolition of SDK, which has allowed for the privatisation that has taken place. Those involved had the assistance of a state called the security network in which they were caught. And more than that, those who were involved were given a golden parachute. This means that they have received a similar, better, or equal service, but provided that they respect the law of silence, of course. And that's our problem. Those on the committee of inquiry don't know anything, they don't remember anything, or lawyers advise them to be quiet. Material evidence is therefore important. And that's why there was such a resistance that these material evidences would come to Parliament. And the Commission's success is that the material evidence came into the file. And part of it has been reviewed, of course there's a lot of it, there's only a few people on the committee, and on the other hand, if we look at how many people are in the police, the prosecution, in all financial institutions, but we have discovered it, and hopefully there will be more. The goal is to track the financial flows. Here there are two approaches, a criminal law approach based on the prosecution proving a crime and a civil approach to tracking money flows, where there are also elements to the reverse burden of proof, and this must be applied. GRECO already reminds us that we are under-using the institutes of joint and special investigation teams which the prosecution could use, and we can also draw money from the European Union. It's a paper trail. The first was denied in the New Ljubljana Bank. Why? Because internal controls didn't work or someone was quiet. It is now necessary to see who and what information has been provided, when the information came to the Anti-Money Laundering Office and where they forwarded it. Which one of these guys at the government, the ministries and the rest got the information? When and what did he do with it? What has the Commission done to prevent corruption? There's no sign of him. Is it normal for such things to be communicated on the phone? The written trail in the state administration is crucial. And here, interestingly, in a few cases, it's gone. So, it's not clear what's in writing. If the system doesn't work, then the fourth branch of power has to work. These are the media. The media must investigate this kind of crime. Panamanian documents are a fine example, only a fraction of what is revealed about financial crime. But it is interesting when one says that the system in Slovenia does not work – the system in Slovenia works. If you go to the bank for credit, they will know exactly what the insurance is and when it is necessary to notify the Anti-Money Laundering Office and who must respond. In these key cases, however, the system fails intentionally. It is now necessary to determine why he has failed, and to trigger all kinds of responsibility. For criminally we see that there is still time, the authorities, at the initiative of the Commission, moved forward, not before, waited for it to pass. Indemnity liability. Who's got to trigger it? State. The state must initiate compensation responsibility, but, interestingly, the state has put those people in these responsible places. Moreover, they are now in the most responsible places in the supervisory and other institutions. And of course, the positional responsibility, the political responsibility of those who were involved at the time. Just as we have accepted that we will have a license for bankers, a license for politicians. If you've been involved in this kind of business, then it's only right that you don't run for office. The parties themselves should, without the adoption of legislation, put in place such mechanisms as to ensure that such persons do not run alone or are not proposed for these functions. I think that this debate is necessary and that the media must also play their part through investigative journalism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u161	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Center Party, for her mag. Bojan Krajnc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u162	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The Commission of Inquiry on the detection of abuses in the Slovenian banking system and the determination of the causes and responsibilities for the second resolution of the banking system in Slovenia alone within its mandate also investigates the New Ljubljana Bank and has obtained a number of documentation more or less for this purpose since its inception. The investigative committee’s experts, who reviewed and analysed this documentation, encountered a number of suspicious transactions. We heard a little earlier in the opening statement: 800 million euros, 9 thousand 400 different accounts, 20 thousand transactions and all of these transactions connect one name – Farrokh. The Commission of Inquiry therefore decided, in its alternative work, to give more concrete attention to this matter and, in its work relating to information which it was justified to assume that the intelligence and security services also had them, it also requested the assistance of the KNOVS. She obtained additional documentation in this particular case, interviewed Witnesses Bož Jašovic, Janka Medjo and Andrej Plaussteiner and prepared the present interim report, the first part of which we are considering in the open work today. From all of this, the documentation, the hearings of the witnesses and the rest follow the key findings that we will adopt next week, and we can divide them according to the stakeholders involved. First, in 2009 and 2010, Nova Ljubljanska Banka carried out foreign payments for its Commissioner, Irai Farrokhzadeh. According to the money laundering typologies also described in the recital, concealing the origin of funds and internal and external indicators, in this case there was a reasonable suspicion of money laundering and financing or financing of terrorism. During the period 2007-2011, the system of prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing was virtually not functioning in the New Ljubljana Bank, for which the administrations of that time have a legitimate and objective responsibility. During this period, the management structures of Nova Ljubljanska Banka were warned by both internal audit and operational partners, so money laundering could and should be made aware. The new Bank of Ljubljana did not report to the Anti-Money Laundering Office, despite the fulfilment of the indicators that indicated the suspicion of money laundering and the financing of tourism. The management was also informed in detail about the operation of Farrokh limited through Nova Ljubljanska Banka. The Commission of Inquiry therefore rightly assumes that the company business could only continue due to the support of the Nova Ljubljanska Banka administration. Another shareholder, Banka Slovenije, as a national banking regulator for the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, has not systematically monitored. It allowed Nova Ljubljanska Banka to have in practice an ineffective system of money laundering prevention. The Bank of Slovenia has thus abandoned its regulatory role and has created a systemic risk on the Slovenian banking market. The third shareholder, the Anti-Money Laundering Office, did not, in a specific case, carry out the Prevention of Money and Financing of Terrorism Act. He acted superficially, unprofessionally, did not take into account warnings coming from abroad, while performing his role as a supervisory institution very passively, almost uninterested. Such conduct is subject to objective and subjective responsibility by the Director at the time. The current political summits may even have been, or have been, informed of the suspicions surrounding the operation of Commissioner Farrokh with the New Ljubljana Bank. It was monitored and investigated by SOVA, the police, Banka Slovenije and the Anti-Money Office, but it continued its business smoothly. Therefore, the political summit is, in any other way, politically responsible, for abandoning its duty. The main findings also stem from the proposed decision in the three points found in the open part of the interim report, namely, that the General Police Administration, the Anti-Money Laundering Office, the Bank of Slovenia and the Anti-Corruption Commission carry out internal controls in the light of the correct application of regional, material and procedural law and internal procedures in this matter, with an emphasis on the responsibilities of the holders of powers in the departments and inform the National Assembly that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as the Assembly of the Slovenian State Holding Committee, shall order the preparation of a report on this matter and shall inform the National Assembly and that the Commission of Inquiry shall forward the present interim report to the National Investigation Office and the Special Prosecutor's Office as an application for the indication of the suspicions of criminal services. The alleged crime of money laundering has spread over the past period in which the Modern Centre's Parties have not yet been established. That is why we have also proposed, and colleague Möderndorfer is also leading an investigative committee in this regard to identify specific political responsibilities and other details. However, in the Modern Centre Party, we will support the mid-term report, i.e. the key findings and conclusions.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u163	Dr Ange Logar will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u164	Thank you. I will continue with the introduction because, at the proposal of the President of the National Assembly, it was not possible for me to present the work of the Commission's investigation report at the introduction of 30 minutes, so I will present part of this introduction in the SDS Group's position. To begin with, it is a shocking realization that the business we witnessed at the biggest state bank in the Farrokh case can take place for two years, but hardly anyone responsible. In fact, it is also the best indicator of the blood count and the state of the spirit in the country. For irregularities, there's a bigger circle of people, everyone stays quiet when the story gets too hot, and it's about fast closing and no one's answering. This has been the case in this case and, unfortunately, for the time being, it has also been the pursuit of banking crime. This is also why the Slovenian Democratic Party proposed in 2015 the establishment of a special investigation commission dealing with banking situations. In order to justify the offence of money laundering, a crime must be committed in advance under the law. If I say so at home, if you cash your company's money by accident to thousands of bank account holders, you've done a lot of stupid things, but you haven't been laundering money. If, for example, you issue an environmental permit in exchange for a suitcase of money, then you go to the bank, rent a loan for a month, and pay the loan with the money from this suitcase, you're already in the money launderer company. In one of the previous discussions, when discussing corruption and banking crime in relation to the Farrokh case, counterpart Ferlug said that it was from the point of view of the NLB for a profitable business relationship that did not need to be problematic. On one occasion, he was also a criminalist himself, and former colleagues of crime told him that everything was okay with the matter. You know, I'm worried about a criminal thinking like that. And you'll see why. Take a hypothetical case that may or may not be hypothetical in this case. You know, at the end of me, I don't want to be prosecuted for the possible betrayal of business secrets, but the main targets don't, or the proceedings against them stop, as has been the case so far. As I have been informed, Television Slovenia cannot tolerate what is on the premises, perhaps it would be interesting to understand the matter that I am presenting in this report. Let's say that man 1, let's call him Josein from the Iranian embassy in state A, does 501 raise cash from a nearby ATM for 990 euros. Why 990 euros? Because the bank owner of this ATM has internal controls by setting up or making calls at raises or remittances over a thousand euros. These 500 000 euros are handed over to your wife Fatemeh – that there will be no conspiracy theory, the names are collected randomly from the list of the most common Iranian names, you can find them on Google – which is then translated into three deposits, say, at Farrokh's NLB account. Two transactions succeed and a third bank not an NLB, a foreign bank stops because of suspicion of fraud. As a result, Farrokh simply redirects the funds received through the NLB account. Maybe someone to buy a house, someone else to buy a frozen chicken, again for a third life's cost. For all the unfaithful Tomaze and perhaps Markote question: Do you allow the possibility of talking about a previous crime? Because, if so, you also allow the possibility of talking in a particular case about the suspicion of a crime of money laundering. Or the following example, it has already been mentioned in the public that remittances often had an unusual purpose, such as the payment of living expenses. Which one of you has a benefactor from Iran, Dubai, Argentina, anywhere to pay his living expenses? In the past, the Udva or the State Security Service used to pay their agents. For those people, this may have meant some kind of universal basic income, so they are being sued so much after that time. But I don't personally know anyone today who would live with such luxury. Well, in 2009 and 2010, they lived quite a few lives at the expense of Farrokh. Or another more likely explanation that the funds were received at their expense for some more intelligence-intensive purposes. But this is also the task of law enforcement. Let's go back to the hypothetical case, let's say that 22-year-old Farhat from, let's say, country B, through Farrokh's NLB account gets a total of €1 million in life-related expenses in a year. It raises individual remittances in cash on a regular basis. Since banks in this country B are significantly more committed, I do not know, to transparent business and the Money Laundering Prevention Act, they regularly warn their money laundering office and then stop the following transactions because they close the account to the gentleman, so the gentleman is going to open the account to another bank and so on until they finally stop doing business with it, perhaps the bank in this country is running out. But look, you know what's scary about this? Once the money is raised from this bank in cash, it is put in a suitcase, and, as we know, the traceability of the money disappears. It is even more frightening, or scary, if this Farhat is not a lonely case and this is not just happening in country B. What if it is happening in the whole world that Farrokh was dealing with? Some 2 thousand individuals who receive such a cost of living may spend some 10, perhaps even 100, million, euros in cash through their payload. And as you know, in 2009 and 2010, the European Union had open borders, perhaps some sort of suitcase, even back to Slovenia. There is another specificity to note in this regard, although I have already warned. While foreign banks, after two or three remittances, find suspiciousness and are forced to find another bank and proceed with such a procedure, the State NLB has no difficulty in carrying out thousands of remittances from the Iranian bank under restrictive measures, which are otherwise bypassed by tax-Oasis collection companies. In the documentary evidence report, we also argue that the Anti-Money Laundering Office was already very early aware of suspicious transactions in NLB. But he acted contrary to the legal powers of the Office and even to the policies and rules that he himself adopted and sent to banks, how they should act in the event of money laundering prevention. For a long time, the Bureau has failed to address the demand of foreign offices in the Farrokh case. Instead of asking those responsible for the NLB for details, he refused by reason of the arguments expressed by the sister organisations abroad to further explain his suspicions. Imagine that a foreign financial office in Country C, as chairman of the Money Laundering Office, is afraid that, for example, X is involved in Iran's nuclear or proliferation programme and then after three weeks, you will get their answer by requesting, if you would explain a little more precisely what you mean. And further, what would you think if, after several times of correspondence with this head of State C office, you had the answer to contact someone else with your suspicions about proliferation, i.e. by building activities with international sanctions on the prohibited Iranian weapons programme, because they are not responsible for the field of terrorism? Or should I step up to you if the same chairman of this office were to defend his indiscretion, for example, to write this sentence or in Slovenian, the Office of Money Laundering only see when the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering in Foreign Letters identifies itself as the Office of Money Laundering, and you would certainly think what the State of Banana Republic is! [[…]] While the Office's letters regularly failed, both in letters to foreign sister offices and to its own institutions in the country responsible for the prosecution of crime, while the Office allowed Farrokh to operate smoothly in NLB, although it was precisely for this business relationship between NLB and Farrokh that it opened the file of "suspecting transaction" and that it was in the specific case of the most serious violations of the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism, for which it was at risk up to EUR 120 000, the Office did nothing at all. At the hearing, his director even freely admitted that he didn't know why he didn't do anything. If you ask me, the former chairman of the Anti-Money Laundering Office should be subject to a life-long ban on public administration employment. One more word, two on the conduct of the Police and the National Investigation Office. Article 148 of the Criminal Procedure Act then in paragraph 10 states: “Police shall send a report to the State Prosecutor even if, on the basis of the notifications collected, there is no basis for criminal prosecution.” If I translate this into an understandable language, if there are suspicions of a criminal service, the police will in one way or another draw up a criminal complaint and send it to the prosecution, but if the police cannot confirm these suspicions after a thorough examination of the case, they must also inform the prosecution with a special report, for one reason: it is the guardian against the police's will, in order for that reason or any case to be thrown under the carpet. For the prosecution can go beyond that, despite the police's findings that there is nothing wrong, only initiate the investigation, but first it must be informed and informed of the matter. And in the case of Farrokh, we probably don't need to specifically guess that we know that she was dealt with by the police, and at a certain stage, she even introduced some special measures, but this inflammation dried up in 2011. [[…]] Question: Did the police, in accordance with the Criminal Procedure Act, prepare a report for the prosecution, as was the case with the law? Let's see what Secretary of State of Chiefs replied about this question, how they closed the case at the police and whether they informed the prosecution. I quote: “In view of your request, it has so far been found that the police have resolved the matter 6. 1. 2012, therefore, just before the end of the Pahor government, “when it was moved from the collection of pending cases to the current collection.” Although I am not able to place this information, it is more important to continue, I quote: “A special document in this regard has not been produced and should be for the State Prosecutor’s Office.” In doing so, the police violated their basic procedural law. Ignorance, ignorance, slander? I don't know. The fact is that she did not inform the prosecution, which should, in terms of determining responsibility for banking crime, be a frightening finding. What if it was not a lonely case, but a repeated practice, of course, in ours? If the infringements of the criminal procedure were unequivocally violated in such a large case as the Farrokh case, the question is rightly raised as to how many such cases would have been encountered if all the banking criminal proceedings initiated in that country had been examined in detail at some stage. And given that this is such a significant breach of procedures that seriously builds confidence in the legitimate conduct of law enforcement authorities, the Slovenian Democratic Party supports the expectations of the investigative commission to carry out internal control in the police, the relevant case and the appropriate sanctioning of those responsible. Let us stop for a moment at the dictates used by the specialised State Prosecutor's Office in response to the request of the commission of inquiry for the transmission of documents in the Farrokh case, which or should be located on the Prosecutor's Office. The Head of the Public Prosecutor's Office, Harij Furlan, replied that the Special Prosecutor's Office did not receive any documents or announced by the police, nor by, I quote directly, “other state authorities, supervisory institutions or banks”. The fact that the Special Prosecutor's Office explicitly lists other stakeholders, that is, not only the police responsible for doing so under the CAP, suggests that in such an exposed case the prosecution would expect, and according to the Slovenian Democratic Party, it would be necessary, at least, to inform the Bank of Slovenia, the KPK, the President of the Republic, the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering, the President of the Government and the informed ministers of the Pahor government, and even the New Ljubljana Bank of the greatest romances. Let's help a little bit more with the response of the prosecution signed by Harry Furlan. Taisti Harij Furlan has been since 1. Seven. 2010 at the head of the National Investigation Office, the same National Investigation Office, which should deal with the Farrokh case until at least 6. 1. 2012 when it was closed by moving it from a collection of pending cases to a current collection. Let's do a little Google, level six. 1. In 2012, Justice Minister Zalar announced to the public that he would propose Harry Furlan as Head of the Special Prosecutor's Office. Therefore, if the prosecution of the Farrokh case has not been officially informed, however, we must allow the possibility that it was its director, but the Commission's report on the supervision of the security and intelligence services we are dealing with tomorrow will discuss this in more detail. It is also incomprehensible that the Bank of Slovenia has not decided to apply to the prosecution, given the findings it has made in the orders of Nova Ljubljanski Banka. Especially since Stanka Zadravec Caprirolo was then head of banking supervision. So Stanka Zadravec Carprirolo, who was the first NLB supervisor in the second half of 2009, is today the president of the Association of Banks of Slovenia. There is no known reason in the Slovenian Democratic Party why it has not decided to apply to the prosecution, for example, the KPK or more specifically, its current President Goran Klemenčič, the current Justice Minister, and Darko Stare, the former Head of the Control and Investigation Service at the KPK and today's Klemenčič State Secretary. Both were informed of the case in detail by the whistleblower. And let me just remind you that in the past, in the KPK, the D.A. has reported substantial minor misdemeanours, for example, for five payment classes, a higher number of one employee in the Cabinet of Justice Minister Sturm. It is also relevant to conclude on this site to recall the legal battle of the Commission of Inquiry vs Desa Cener at the start of the commission of inquiry. As Klemenčič and Stare took the position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia before the Constitutional Court on the side of the District Court of Cener, the investigating commission has no right to seize the credit cards of the New Ljubljana Bank. If they were then instilled in their dictions, we would not be discussing this report today, but it is not, and that is why we are talking about this subject today. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we agree with the findings of the Commission of Inquiry that the time for waiting and the silent contemplation has passed and we also support the conclusions and the key findings proposed by the Commission of Inquiry. The content I have presented is a minimal summary of the reports to which Members have access, and if this report is confirmed, the law enforcement authorities will also have access. Let me once again, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party, express my misunderstanding of the decision of the President of the National Assembly, Mr Brglez, who, with a proposal for a shorter period of introduction to the investigative commission, ignored the desire of the investigative commission for an integrated presentation, so this report was presented in more detail at the time of the Slovenian Democratic Party. We will unanimously confirm the report in the Slovenian Democratic Party. However, we expect the law enforcement authorities to investigate the case in detail and accurately and with all due diligence, not as in the first trial in 2011.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u165	Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u166	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to all on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. I think that we all have before us information that has echoed in the public that the parliamentary investigative commission has discovered a greater case of potential money laundering and financing of terrorism in Slovenia through the largest bank in the country, the New Ljubljana Bank. In cooperation with the Iranian Bank and several companies through the New Ljubljana Bank, Iranian citizens are expected to carry out suspicious transactions. According to the first findings, this work continued for quite some time without any of the competent authorities taking action. Thus, it has been a long time, almost two years since the total amount of disputed remittances reached almost a billion euros, until measures are taken and those transactions are prevented. A more extensive and important part of the Commission's findings has a code of secrecy, but already publicly available data raise serious concerns. With information that they allowed suspicious transactions at the largest state bank, that they had not officially notified them to the competent authorities, that the bank of the suspect would even exempt the payments of the commissions in question, thereby further facilitating the operation of both the Anti-Money Laundering Office and the Bank of Slovenia, with this and similar information, of course, we can only ask ourselves how this is possible. This is certainly an indication that Slovenia, despite its small and minor exposure, is not immune to the abuse of systems carried out by the capital of suspicious origin and with illegal objectives. Such discoveries also point again to the fact that Slovenian market regulators are not sufficiently conscientious in their work and that they are not really aware of the tasks and powers they have, are under-acting on their own initiative and rely on other institutions, perhaps even those from abroad. And it really gives us the impression that what you can't do in other countries is done in Slovenia without any problems, and that, in fact, this rule is sooner than later, that rules must be adhered to and that such action must be counter-prevented and restricted. In particular, this time the facts show that the Slovenian competent authorities have only acted on initiatives from abroad, the Bank of Slovenia only after the Iranian bank has been classified as a blacklist, and the Anti-Money Laundering Office only after the related institutions of France have pointed out this. The findings of the commission of inquiry also place a heavy burden on the responsible New Ljubljana Banks at the time, since in years before the events the system of prevention of abuse was not even established. At the same time, today's findings show that there were already more than enough signs and suspicions that gave the competent authorities sufficient grounds to act quickly and effectively under the rules in force at that time. Therefore, it can be agreed that the system of control and prevention of money laundering and the financing of illegal activities has been fully discontinued. While the precise definition of specific offences cannot yet be given at this time, it can be argued that there has been at least a waiver of the duty. The specific circumstances and persons needed to be clarified. Further procedures will certainly follow this consideration, as today's proposals for decisions proposed by the Commission of Inquiry thus make recommendations to the competent authorities to carry out a thorough investigation into the correct application of the law and the responsibility of authorised persons. They also refer to the requirement to draw up a list of persons who participated in or enabled suspicious business in the New Ljubljana Bank. Finally, they require that the Commission's findings be forwarded to the National Investigation Office and the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office as criminal disclosures. We will also support such conclusions in the Group of Social Democrats, because we believe that these worrying findings need to be investigated quickly and effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u167	The word is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, for which it is mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u168	Good afternoon, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. In the case of Iranian money laundering, it's a big story. It has been proven that Iran's intelligence service has financed its intelligence network around the world through the New Ljubljana Bank. However, it is all the more presumptuous that this happened during the time of sanctions or the embargo against Iran. It must be a key question that we must ask ourselves in this House, how all this is possible. And the answer is in hand that all of this would not be possible if Iranian agents and the Iranian agency did not have Slovenian helpers. The Iranians had their assistants at the New Ljubljana Bank. How do we know that? The employees of the Nova Ljubljanska Bank, who carried out these payments, kept clear of their superiors' unusual business, of the odd times when they had to carry out such transactions. But the responsible and superiors in the NLB are nothing. Even more, an even inflow commission was lifted for this business. And something amazing, e-commerce was approved through the Proklik, even with the elimination of the limit, the ceiling, as far as the Proklika can go. So express your help to the Iranians. Of course, it should be made clear that some conscientious employees at lower levels within NLB wanted to stop this madness. Thus, we can learn from the messages that several calls were made by these officials to the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering, but the response from the Office was always: “Follow closely”. When we examined these things in detail, we found that there are no records of these phone conversations at the Anti-Money Laundering Office, that there are no records of these conversations. Even more! The office played an extremely unusual role, even as an assistant to these Iranian businesses. In response to requests from foreign partner services of other offices to prevent money laundering across Europe, our office has responded very bureaucraticly and has sent them on their way to complement their roles. And what seems amazing, but this actually happened when they did come to other partner offices informing about this Iranian business, they let three zeros go, and so we came instead of 700 million in the report to 700 thousand euros. Which, of course, is a completely different dimension. Most likely, we all imagine that if our money laundering office in Germany, Austria, Britain and elsewhere had announced that 700 million euros were involved in the game, these offices would probably have acted completely differently than if they had received a notice that it was worth EUR 700 000. Certain honest NLB officials also wanted to stop the matter through the KPK if it did not go through the Anti-Money Laundering Office. Thus, he worked on the NLB employee at the KPK – the Anti-Corruption Commission – and transmitted data which confirmed these suspicious transactions. A KPK employee handed this information to a certain police officer, and this one to his police chiefs, but the bosses didn't react properly. Even more, it was said that there were no real signs of money laundering. It is clear that Slovenia, or if you want its NLB State Bank, has made it possible to finance Iran's intelligence service from the end of 2008 until the end of 2010. This is a fact and it is fair to say that this business has stopped only on the basis of pressure from abroad. If foreign intelligence services, foreign money-prevention agencies would not put a great deal of pressure on Slovenian institutions, this business would likely continue to run deep through 2010. And on the basis of all these pressures, of course, the Bank of Slovenia, at the end of the year, stopped this business and stopped these merry-go-rounds. Sometimes when we listen to all this, and when people have melted down, maybe after all these affairs and mega-Romanian affairs, we've melted down, but everything we're saying is the truth, and it's amazing how all the control mechanisms have failed. First of all, he cancelled internal supervision at Nova Ljubljanska Banka, the employees warned, the superiors did not react. He then completely cancelled the Money Laundering Office, acted bureaucraticly, issued incorrect notices. In part, although the greatest part of this story has been played by SOVA, it has also made a number of mistakes, including the lack of communication of partner services. And a special story is the police. According to the data we received, the police, in November 2010, found that there were no suitable signs of money laundering. In November 2010, this police officer discovered that there were no signs of money laundering, was suspended in 2013 because of corruption and died in strange circumstances three months later. Without witnesses, he fell off the ladder as if someone were trying to cover up certain things. Business, Iranian-Slovenian, is clear that they have run parallel structures in this country. It should be added that the Slovenian political summit was formal, I do not speak informally, it can be that someone was previously informally informed, but the Slovenian political summit was formally informed by the reports on this business only on 24 November 2010. And a month later, these deals stopped. My key question is probably that this should be of interest, at least it should be of interest to future investigators, our institutions that have to deal with this business: Who made this business possible for Iranian intelligence? I would say that from Slovenia someone, but who has connections with Iranian intelligence, and b, who has the power to block control mechanisms in this country. I don't think there are many groups in Slovenia that are capable of anything like this. Both the Commission, the Banking Hole Commission and the Security and Intelligence Services Supervisory Commission have collected a large amount of evidence, testimony, statements and other documentation in recent months that could be a good start for law enforcement. Soon, however, it will be demonstrated whether the will to prosecute such crime exists in Slovenia at all. We can be sure that there will probably be a lot of speculation that this is hard to prove, this money laundering, that it represents a high burden of proof for the police and more. However, if we start on the easy side, it would be easier to prove at least the following that internal controls were disabled in the NLB, that the NLB was financially damaged by the fact that it gave up the inflow commission, that a specific amount was incurred by Nova Ljubljanska Banka, and a third thing that could also be proved that sanctions or embargo against Iran were violated. I am sure that we can find and perhaps punish the operators of this particular business for a start. To bring the organizers to justice, however, we have a great test ahead of us. However, if we can bring the organiser of this business before the time of justice, then we have taken the para-state structures around the corners. The NSI Group will certainly support the conclusion of this Commission and the recommendations made by these Commissions.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u169	We have completed the presentation of the views of the Group. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the interim report, on the essential findings and on the proposal for a decision submitted by the Commission of Inquiry. Mr Darko Maležič, Director of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the Prevention of Money Laundering, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Commission of Inquiry on the detection of abuses in the Slovenian banking system and the identification of the causes and responsibilities for the second resolution of the banking system in Slovenia alone has undoubtedly made great efforts to pursue the objectives for which it was established. The interim report shows the large volume of documentation obtained and reviewed, the large number of hearings conducted and the effort made in the preparation of the interim report. The interim report examines the conduct of all stakeholders in the so-called Farrokh case and also evaluates their handling of the cities in a valuable way. It is my intention in particular to clarify the role of the Office and what restrictive measures mean in general, but I do not intend to dispute with the Commission's findings. The Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the Prevention of Money Laundering is the body of the Ministry of Finance. It is a central body for the prevention and detection of money laundering in the Republic of Slovenia, as you can see for yourself, but its powers stem from the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism. In its work, it must respect and respect all international standards adopted and followed by all related offices around the world. It is true, however, that other countries may also have different legislation governing this area. It is worth noting that the Office's powers relate only to preventing money laundering and financing of terrorism, but not to detecting and investigating crimes. The Office therefore does not have investigative powers, i.e. powers reserved for the police. Nor does it hold the generally accepted opinion that the Office monitors and supervises all transactions in the country. This office doesn't have the authority to do it today. The money laundering system itself in the Republic of Slovenia is based on the consistent implementation of the requirements imposed by law on the debtors, including the communication of suspicious transactions to the Office. If a suspicious transaction is not reported to the Office, the Office may not know and act accordingly. In this particular case, the Office acted in accordance with the powers conferred on it by the then Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and on the Financing of Terrorism. It should be noted that at that time the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism did not contain provisions on restrictive measures. Only data relating to the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing were collected and transmitted at that time. With regard to the statements made by previous speakers or your fellow Members, I will now take advantage, not rejecting an application from abroad, but recalling the limitations of official powers that were in the law at the time. Therefore, the Foreign Office has only warned that the Office can begin its activities when there is suspicion of money laundering or financing of terrorism, rather than suspicion of infringements of restrictive measures. That's when they decided to do what they did. As Mr Tonin said, the office acted bureaucraticly by consistently sticking to the letters of the law. The concept of restrictive measures should also be noted. Restrictive measures or sanctions, as they are called, are measures by which the international community wants certain countries or other entities that threaten international peace and security to change their behaviour without the use of force in such a way that this will no longer endanger international peace and security. According to the Charter of the United Nations, the Security Council of the United Nations is one that, by means of resolutions, adopts such measures and is binding on all UN Member States. On the other hand, the European Union is independently taking restrictive measures, including with some of its foreign and security policy objectives. Only the area of restrictive measures in Slovenia is systematically regulated by the Restrictive Measures Act and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is designated as the competent authority in the field of restrictive measures. I do not place responsibility for the conduct of the office at the time to other ministries or other state authorities, but I explain how the system is regulated in Slovenia. Restrictive measures vary, but most often they cover the arms and other related equipment export embargo, the prohibition of imports and exports of certain goods and technology, the prohibition of entry, transit and so on. The Office was not designated in any of the Slovenian implementing regulations on the implementation of the EU Council Regulations as a competent authority for the implementation of regulations or as an inspection body, nor did it have inspection powers during that period. I say "in that period" because this has changed significantly in recent years because it has been found that, given the changing situation in the world, it is no longer going forward. Pursuant to Council Regulation 423/2007, which has been repeatedly mentioned in the materials, it has been prohibited from nationals of the Republic of Slovenia or from the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, or using vessels flying the flag of the Republic of Slovenia and so on, for use in Iran and for its benefit, to sell, supply, transfer or export arms and other military equipment of all types, including weapons and ammunition, military vehicles and equipment, paramilitary equipment, spare parts and so on. Council Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006 of 18 December 2006 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the processing of personal data and on the processing of personal data and on the processing of personal data and on the processing of personal data and on the processing of personal data and on the processing of personal data and on the processing of personal data and on the processing of personal data, 1110/2008, which amended Regulation 423/2008, introduced additional obligations for credit and financial institutions in order to prevent the proliferation of nuclear activities or the development of nuclear weapon launch systems. The financial institutions had to closely monitor transactions in accounts in the context of customer due diligence, request that all data relating to both the issuer and the recipient be completed on payment orders and reject the transaction if these data were not provided and keep all records for 5 years. If credit or financial institutions suspect that the funds are related to the proliferation of nuclear weapons, they should inform the competent authority, which was the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in this case. All these measures had to be implemented only for business with credit and financial institutions established in Iran and their branches. As can be seen from what I have said so far, the Office acted in accordance with existing rules during that period, which I agree were not good enough. We believe that the conclusions on which the proposed conclusions are based may not be entirely accurate for cities, so as the current Director of the Anti-Money Laundering Office, I do not fully agree with them, because the whole matter should actually be thoroughly enlightened and presented, even though you have done a great deal of work. If I stop just when I notice about the zeros, this has been mentioned several times. I went to check the file myself. In fact, there are no such zeros, these requests, but there is no indication that the annex to all letters was the documentation containing the correct data. So, every country that received a request from the Anti-Money Laundering Office at the time received an annex on remittances. Also in the notification to the police, in which this inaccuracy was also recorded, was accompanied by documentation containing all transactions, with all amounts, with all the volume of traffic. So I'm surprised, too, that I'm speaking as the current director, that there were so many typographical errors, but we can say that luckily the documentation that was attached was complete. What happened to her then, I don't know. With regard to allegations of calls to an office which are not recorded, as you can see, as I have determined how it was done at the time, given how it is currently being done, if someone calls on the office, we are talking about the financial institutions' representatives, and express any doubts about any business of any party, he is always asked to monitor and report an official suspicious transaction if the indicators are met. Why it wasn't done then, I don't know. I would also like the crime detection and prosecution authorities to do their work quickly and effectively and to come to the appropriate conclusions in order to find out how the system functioned at the time, to determine if the system's modifications to date have been good enough and appropriate and that we can then continue to work normally, to establish an effective system in this country, which I think we all want, both Members of Parliament, us, so-called bureaucrats, as well as citizens who expect quality and effective work on our part. I could say that if I paraphrase Tupac, the organ leaders in the compound will come and we'll go. The wars that are being fought by the institutions, which we are currently in, remain. Therefore, the system must be well established enough to fight these wars well and to win in the end. With regard to the second decision, where the National Assembly proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to order a detailed report in the Farrokh case, indicating all individuals from the NLB and so on, the position of the Ministry of Finance is that this detailed report, which the Government is expected to obtain from SDH, would be confidential under the Banking Act, which the Government cannot obtain from SDH, nor could SDH obtain from the New Ljubljana Bank. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia cannot implement the proposed decision of the Commission of Inquiry. The possibility of obtaining confidential information from NLB is in line with the latest amendment to the Banking Act by the National Assembly Commission of Inquiry, which examines the resolution of the banking system. But like I said, I don't want to mess with anyone, I'm just explaining our views. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u171	The text shall be by the representative of the applicant, President of the Commission of Inquiry, Dr. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u172	Thank you, President. The key question now is whether Mr Male has acted as chairman of the Anti-Money Laundering Office or as representative of the Ministry of Finance. In fact, he's confused both powers. In the first part, he spoke as a representative of the Anti-Money Laundering Office. I'm concerned that the head of this office is telling me after this story that the office acted as it had to. I'm sorry. Then we didn't do anything. Previously, you said, "The Office acted in accordance with existing regulations." Here's the 2007 law. You didn't take any of the articles into account. Article 57: “The Office may suspend the transaction by written order for up to 72 hours if it considers that there are reasonable grounds for suspicion of money laundering.” The Office found reasonable grounds for suspecting money laundering, opened up a suspicious transaction, and launched another 15 and 10 thousand transactions without any particular transaction being reviewed. Next, article 91: “Penal policy in the event of the most serious infringements.” I can list seven of the most serious violations that NLB has committed in these cases, which means that it could have ordered them seven times and, on a case-by-case basis, €120,000, and the office was looking away. Where did the Office take action here, according to the existing one? Is that how you do it? This is a real question for all of us. Are our banks doing the same as they did before because the chairman of this office is satisfied with previous policies? This is under A and B: Did Mr. Plaussteiner give you a speech for today's presentation? I hope that's not true. And now, as a representative of the Ministry of Finance, you are commenting on what you can and whether you agree with the decision of the National Assembly or not, look, no, I'm sorry. I expect at least the secretary of state, at least given that it is a bank that we citizens have saved twice to present this position of the Ministry of Finance, not a body in its composition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u173	He spoke again, but now is not the problem if you read 235. The Article, in this case, is also a representative of the Ministry of Finance, because in this way he is authorised, because otherwise he would not be able to participate at this time. I'm just procedurally explaining that everything is procedurally clean. We also used strict reading of this article, not anything else, to protect the interests of the National Assembly. Once again, the Director of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia has the floor to prevent money laundering, Mr Darko Maležič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Like I said, we're always talking about some historic event and the law that was in force at the time. I was trying to explain what the law was like back then. [[adverts from benches]] I don't mean to be argumentative. I just want to explain. The supervision of the prevention of money laundering in the Republic of Slovenia was and is also regulated by a dual-level, i.e. financial institutions and other debtors have each of their primary supervisors because the office did not have inspection powers at the time. That was a big flaw. One is an inspection, the other is a felony. He didn't have inspection powers at the time, so the Bureau couldn't go into the field and examine anything. With the new law this has changed, we have been given inspection powers, now we are inspectors and my colleagues are already implementing, they have begun to conduct some inspection in the field as well. In view of the fact that I insisted on amending the law and that I had been successful in doing so, it is likely that I was not satisfied with the situation as it had been before. The operation of the Office is changing and will continue to change. I don't have any other comments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u175	The text is again given by the representative of the proposer, President of the Commission of Inquiry, Dr. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u176	And that's an excuse on very small legs. Yes, the Money Laundering Bureau couldn't get into the bank, but then explain this to me next. Marca is informed by a foreign office that something is seriously wrong in the New Ljubljana Bank. What would a chairman of an office like that do? He immediately sent Banka Slovenije to conduct an inspection at this bank. Do you know when the Bureau suggested that? October. However, from March to October it is not the fault of the law, Mr Male, but the fault of the competent office, or of the one who dealt with it, can also be the golden work of the former director or perhaps the image of that office. Excuse me, but you will correct the image of this office in a way that you will admit that something has gone very wrong in the work of the Office and give assurances here to Members and to citizens and citizens that it is no longer possible to do business like this.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u177	Mr Darko Stare, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u178	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament! First of all, congratulations on the work done so far. The purpose of this investigation team is, as my colleague the predecessor has already said, to say. I just hope and wish that together we will achieve this objective and that the purpose of actually finding out and clarifying what was going on, what responsibilities were involved, political, criminal, labour law, professional and so on. However, I am afraid that this objective will not be achieved in a way that, with the ironic ridicule of the director of the office, who comments on what he wants to say, to comment on your implementation, will be achieved. And I also wish that in five years' time, when perhaps, I hope not, there will be no result as you expect it to be and that you refer it to all those who were then in those responsible positions, they have not achieved that your successors will not do the same to you and will tell you things that you can't actually be responsible for. That is why I would like to make a contribution in order to explain, in meat, some things that I believe can contribute to what is the aim and purpose of these parliamentary investigations and your efforts so far. I think it is very responsible and right that all those who speak out in public and talk about the alleged responsibility of any of us, former officials, former officials, political officials, and so on, we have before us that we need to know and be honest with them and to ourselves, that every time we ask ourselves what one of these individual either criminals or officials at the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering at the KPK, in the government, in the ministries has had what he knew and how he found out. What we know today, thanks to you, is a quantity and quality of data. You can be sure that I am in this deep, from the perspective of the KPK, because I speak from my own experience that these quantities and the quality of the data, I think, no one has had what you have collected so far. It is said that the assessment of this conduct at the time could not be the same as it could be yours, and it can also be significantly more justified. That seems very responsible to me. It does not seem correct to me, either, in terms of the purpose of these investigations, that when you feel that someone has not done his homework thoroughly, professionally enough, efficiently enough, you should say it by name and surname and add something else, which has nothing to do with the actual situation. However, when something has been done as was expected or is by professional standards, it is spoken without names. That's why I'd like to say the following. Since this respected National Assembly and you, as an investigative commission, will use the parable, this is not a primary school, you are essentially a university, as regards the determination of political responsibility and any changes to legislation based on your findings. That's why it worries me when I hear on the phone when you tell me that you don't know that you've done a thorough and good job to a large extent, that you don't know in which cases the discovery authorities are suing the prosecution, and when you're going to court, and when you're going to the police. This would be expected by such an eminent commission with its experts and knowledge of the rules in force, then and now, to know. You know that suspicion is that the grounds for suspicion of official persecutive action build up to a reasonable suspicion, which is an assumption that a criminal procedure can be initiated, which can only be instituted by the prosecutor. To come from suspicion to reasonable, the police and other detection authorities play an important role, in which case also those you listed. And the charges, the official criminal charges, the ones handed down by the state authorities to the prosecution, are when they find reasonable suspicion, especially the police. Otherwise, if you have collected and seen that, according to this report, you are all contracts and cooperation agreements with the State Prosecutor's Office, they bring out official criminal charges when they collect at least reasonable grounds or reasonable suspicions, otherwise, the primary addressee is the police, who, under the Criminal Procedure Act, has the duty to immediately inform the public prosecutor of the offence, when they have made an announcement or complaint of the offence, who may then take the whole direction. So when someone sent something, they didn't send it, it's a very simple question, the answer is like in the third grade, one plus one, so it's two, and it's not a dilemma for someone who's at the university, because on this assumption, of course, it creates a doubt, why he didn't send it. If I were to reflect on such a methodology, I would also, because of the objectivity and integrity of your knowledge, not want you to answer me, but in the form of a question: Why didn't you mention in this report or today's implementation the documents that I personally sent to you at your request to all the authorities? Very specific information, substantially more than I have personally received, has been spoken of by a KPK official. Personally, I was the employee from the KPK, to whom a known applicant — known, not anonymous — brought a document from the Bank of Slovenia containing completely different information than you are now fully showing. But in March 2012, the Ministry of Justice during your government, Mr Pličanič, was Minister, received very specific information on suspected fraud, fraud, money laundering in this case from an eminent competent foreign judicial authority. And no one knows anything about it. And now if I wasn't going to say mean, but I would say, wait, how is it that Mr President of the Government, if his eminent minister knew that, and it was half a year, until mid-2012, in the Ministry of Justice, which is a very important department, he didn't ask anyone, he didn't say anything, and nobody knows anything about it. And if I continue, how come you don't mention it? Do you have any reason? I believe that there is no great conspiracy, but when we got it, the first thing we did at the KPK, when the Minister or the Ministry of Justice receives such a document from a foreign authority, the first thing we have to do is to inform the competent prosecutor in the Republic of Slovenia. Whenever such requests are made by foreign qualified authorities, you will obtain such specific information on specific crimes as it is in this case not to be mistaken, it is the duty of everyone under Article 145 of the CAP, then and now to inform the competent prosecutor of the fact that the offence has been committed in Slovenia, or if the Slovenian citizen is a injured person or if the suspect is a potential Slovenian citizen or is the entity where this is to happen, established in Slovenia. None of this happened. And now I could ask you a rhetorical question: Why not, and why don't you mention it, even though you have it all because we sent it to you immediately? We reacted immediately to the system because it's a function. Because when we go, others come, but the system has to work because it works to protect the public interest. As soon as the Ministry Department receives this, a copy of the documents is immediately communicated to the competent State Prosecutor's Office. I will not let go at all because I want to be constructive, and in your insinuation of Mr Klemenčič, and of Staret, how they influenced your opinion that you did not get the documents. I didn't even understand because I didn't know what it was. I just want to say this, that I propose and please, this matter is really important for the public interest of the Republic of Slovenia and in the final stage for all of us who live here. It is necessary to take a thorough and professional approach to the matter in such a way that it is very clear what time window someone has had at their disposal; and by professional standards, it should be evaluated accordingly, or whether that expectation is justified. And why isn't it? Either he didn't know whether he was sloppy or there was something else. This seems constructive to me; not now so casually explaining how someone has done nothing. We've all done too little together and not enough. And I wish that in five years' time, you who have worked hard, too, someone would not say, "What is the result of this now?" I would like to stress this in particular because otherwise the matter is unconstructive. That's my opinion. And it would be a pity for your efforts, your results, your knowledge. And now that there is also a new parliamentary commission that does not unite and do one synergy, professionally, well-founded. I am confident that you can reach sufficiently well-founded conclusions as well as regarding responsibility, whatever, political with your powers and other forms of responsibility of all stakeholders. Mr Dobovšek here was an interesting, criminological explanation of whitewashing and so on. But you know what's most important about crime, where crime happens and stuff like that. Where assessed by those who benefit from this, there is a low risk of detection and a low risk of persecution. Does anyone wonder, at the time that this was happening, when we or you found out, we found out when the case was already closed in 2011; you did, when it was already concluded — but when it was done, it was done because someone could have estimated that the risk was low. But none of these stakeholders have seen how much trust either in you or in anyone else to reveal it in a way that could trigger an investigation. Obviously, everything was very fragmented, everyone knew something, and nobody knew everything, because the investigations may not have been conducted personally enough. I would therefore like to point out that we should be really careful about this common public interest and make sure that we are as objectively and comprehensively as possible for each body as we can see what anyone has ever had, how he has dealt with it, and how he has done so. And this case of yours you dropped. I was impressed by what your government had; you don't even mention it or say it. I won't repeat myself. I don't want to assume anything. This indicates that the system was not efficient enough, one way or another, and needs to be repaired. Is it a systemic measure? Yesterday, you passed a law that will also allow these criminal responsibilities and allow systemic measures to be taken, if any, to be carried out more effectively and more quickly. For other forms of responsibility you have established yourself and I want you to do your job successfully; but in a correct, fair and comprehensive way. That even what you say to the public or represent, you say comprehensively and objectively. And also with a sense of respect, dignity for all people, because we're talking about assumptions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u179	The text shall be by the representative of the applicant, President of the Commission of Inquiry, Dr. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u180	If I sum up the conclusion that Mr Logar will be silent, he will do his job properly. As regards the insinuation concerning the position of Mr Klemenčič and you, the dispute – investigative commission vs Desha Cener. You were on the Committee on Justice where you argued that the Commission of Inquiry did not have the right to credit maps of the New Ljubljana Bank. You were the one. Fortunately, the Committee on Justice of the National Assembly decided differently, as the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly wrote; and with this position we then went to the Constitutional Court. It's not an insinuation, but it's a de facto fact. You said before that we should always label with the name of someone who didn't do well or did something wrong. You're with the Justice Department. How does a court do that? Is he condemning or prangering those who do good; or does he condemn those who commit a crime? Probably the ones who do something wrong. Therefore, it is logical that the commission of inquiry investigates irregularities in the banking system to list those who have committed irregularities, not those who have done well. Those who have done well should be rewarded in the smart structure of this organization. Unfortunately, those who did bad work were rewarded and are still after companies owned by the State. Next, we insinuate or we talk about why they didn't report to the D.A. and so on. I repeat, the KPK has applied to the prosecution for five payment classes for a higher salary of an employee at the justice ministry; not a billion-dollar deal via the New Ljubljana Bank. Now, tell me, isn't that weird, or is that amazing?Oh, my God! I don't know, maybe you were the head of that KPK service back then when she reported those five payment classes. I don't know. I'm not insinuating it. I'm insinuating it as an option. As for your last rhetorical question, I'd be happy to answer. For the material you have sent us, we are very grateful to you, it is an integral part of the secret report and is accessible in the archive or in the quiet room under the degree of secrecy marked “confidential”. That's why I didn't mention him here. Maybe, Mr. Stare, there was a picture of a PowerPoint presentation from that case, if you connect a little bit. And one of the conclusions comes from that material that you forwarded to the commission of inquiry; and I hope that it will help law enforcement authorities to prove a pre-criminal crime nicely, so that they can prove a well-founded crime of money laundering.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u181	Mr Darko Stare, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u182	Thank you. A short answer, why you might think it's paradoxical. You mentioned the case of some five pay graders. It probably went well, I don't know, to abuse the position of one of the presidents, to allow something unlawful to benefit someone; and at the expense of the taxpayers. The Commission has always made a criminal complaint at the time of its reasonable suspicion; and has not burdened the police and other authorities if it has been able to accompany and prove the claim with documents and documents. In these personnel matters, decisions, this is a small joke, and it was probably the reason. But as for these documents, none of them are secret – what you have mentioned and what we have sent you. Then you set up a secret. Confidentiality is the only thing that applies to all personal data under the SDR, but that is not confidentiality under the SRS. It's purely informative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u183	The text is again given by the representative of the proposer, President of the Commission of Inquiry, Dr. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u184	Thank you. As for the case where the suspicion of a criminal complaint was based, the case fell; I do not know how much this suspicion was then justified. However, as far as those documents are concerned, they are marked “intrene” and are also marked in the report i as internal as is required by law. Even if I disclose internal data in the public works and cannot include them in the report, which according to ZBan-1 or ZBan-2 is bank secrecy, business secrecy, I can only place them in a secret report and is marked with an “internal” level. In the third report, I repeat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u185	The word has magic. Matthew Tonin. Get ready, mags. Alenka Bratusek and Mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u186	Good day again. You know that by nature I am not a conspiracy theorist to see in every thing that is happening in Slovenia a conspiracy; but in the case of Iranian business at the New Ljubljana Bank it is difficult to agree that it is just coincidences. I understand that a coincidence occurs once, maybe twice; but that there are a whole series of coincidences, at least I personally don't believe it. I claim what I said in my view that it had to be an organizer for all this story, a man who had good relations with Iranian intelligence; a man who brought these people to Ljubljana, that these people in Ljubljana opened an account with the NLB; and who made sure that the supervisory mechanisms were covered up or that they did not work properly. That's just my grade. If it were coincidences that such a sequence of coincidences would be, for example, that the heads of NLB would silence their subordinates, even though the subordinates had warned that unusual things were unusual, the intention was that payments should be made at specified times. Okay, here's where I'd say it's a coincidence. Perhaps your superiors at the New Ljubljana Bank want as many transactions as possible through the New Ljubljana Bank and that they earn from it. But that's not one thing. The next thing is that the Anti-Money Laundering Office is confused by three zeros, which the current chairman also admitted, which I think is correct, is that he was not defending it indefinitely, but he said. However, the annexes were the right ones as I understood them. But because he's the chairman himself now, and he probably knows that this kind of office, as you imagine, is getting a few inquiries, a few letters. For consideration, the key is that main letter and you will most likely agree with me here, if in the main letter things are not in the sky absorbing, if they are not very expressive, then they probably do not deepen very intensely into some details. My point was to add those three needed zeros to make it clear that it was millions, but not hundreds of thousands of euros, the alarms in some other services would ring quite a bell. Let's say it's a story that happened in the police department, but it's definitely a movie story. I think the police should be absolutely interested after this wage to check what happened on this case. Following the hearings we had, it was clear that a police officer, who was somehow responsible for economic crime within the police, had already found no signs of money laundering in November 2010. What's interesting about this whole thing is that his colleagues from another department for the prevention of terrorism, I think, somehow, that's what they call it, the investigations continued. And then in early 2011 we received some information from partner services. And I say that the Hollywood story is in the sense that then the same policeman, who finds out that it's not money laundering, is suspended because of corruption; three months, four months after that he falls off the lottery and dies; and there are no witnesses. Besides, now I can theoretically build conspiracy theories here, but it seems to me to be indictive, an indication of cleaning evidence that should at least be of interest to the police to investigate these matters in a little more detail. If we can't talk about the fact that it's some kind of crime to cover things up, we could at least talk about an indica. I can't talk about the activity of the Owl in the open today, but we're going to discuss it in closed session tomorrow. But now that I am putting the whole context and turning the story back into the past, I can see why there was such a resistance to the privatisation of the New Ljubljana Bank; because I am sure that something similar could not happen in private banks. This is also evidenced by a number of cases where a number of private banks have simply rejected such transactions by NLB. This only explains to me the fact that some NLB also represents a handy tool for such transactions. Another matter that I have not handled so well before; I strongly doubt that the intermediaries or organizers of this work in Slovenia did not deserve it. Those who have brought and in Slovenia have made this whole story possible, over €700 million, I doubt that they have lost their pay. I would also say that this is a rather unpleasant story for Slovenia, even in terms of our foreign policy implications. Perhaps these matters should be discussed rather in closed session and it is better that I conclude here. It is, however, the fact that this work in the NLB helped the intelligence service of a country that is not famous for its respect for human rights. And that's an interesting thing.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u187	The word has magic. Alenka Bratusek. Get ready, mags. Marko Pogačnik and Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u188	Nice greetings, respectable colleagues and colleagues! This is being heard today as a well-written criminal. We are talking about a billion euros that rolled through our banking system, today in 2017, and no one knew or did anything until this year. I don't know, it seems practically impossible to me. One billion euros in the years when we were looking for euros in the budget, the euro said that pensions did not go down, that social transfers remained the way they were, and that they reduced the salaries of public servants. Everywhere it had to be cut, and there it was with a billion euros, which is more than 10% of the state budget, without doing business, apparently from the report they even knew; they did nothing. By the way, the President, the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering belongs to the Ministry of Finance and not the Ministry of Labour, as indicated on the screen, that those accompanying the meeting know that he is still where he was. And the response of the Director of the Anti-Money Laundering Office, the answer that everything was okay, that there was nothing wrong, that means that something similar can happen today and that in seven years, some others will find out that we have done nothing. Well, to be fair, I don't understand that such things can happen. The report clearly proposes conclusions, clearly recorded the names of the political function holders who knew about this; it is said that we also have political responsibility in some way. Although I know that this was already a controversy, I would still ask – two colleagues are here, including Jani, who will be working on another commission of inquiry – what else will this commission be able to find out. I don't know. I understood the representatives of the parliamentary groups that we would support this report, so it is clearly written down, how and what to hand over to the authorities, those who need it, persecution and the matter should be completed for the National Assembly. Okay, we can keep moving. I am more concerned that, obviously from 2009, 2010 to today, there is not one step of improvement so that such things do not happen. Here I would remind myself of another thing that I've connected to myself since this affair came on the day. Remember the subordinated bonds in the bank recovery. The big story - it had to be, it didn't have to be. Small deleted shareholders are very loud. Only two bonds were issued abroad, in Luxembourg, at a time when what was happening. Coincidence? In Luxembourg, by chance, no one knows who bought these bonds. We still don't have the names and surnames of the people who, I don't know, put the money there. It's supposed to be a lot of Slovenians. Could this be a related story? The money from this laundry ended up in bonds in Luxembourg? Our banks betrayed them. These are things that I really think deserve answers; but answers. What we're doing today is making people run away even more. We put a whole bunch of problems on the table, a whole bunch of open questions. There are no answers worth 1 billion. I think our citizens and citizens deserve answers as soon as possible. Not only is it responsible, but it is also necessary to take responsibility in our country for its indecisiveness. We have a billion reasons for this today.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u189	The word has magic. Marco Pogačnik. Prepare Mr Jani Möderndorfer and Mrs Eva Irgl.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u190	Dear President, colleagues, colleagues, distinguished Secretaries of State! When you read this report, when you listen to today's debate, I am sure that the only thing is that Slovenia needs radical changes. And the first opportunity for radical change will be at the referendum this Sunday, and the second option for radical change will be the first round of the October 22nd presidential elections. Mr. President, you're the one with the head. I don't know if it's because of my debate or anything else; but we're talking here today about an investigative commission report, about the suspicion of money laundering, about one billion dollars, which represents more than 10% of the inflows to the Slovenian budget. I cannot imagine any other European Union country addressing such a report of the suspicion of money laundering by the state bank, the largest system bank for more than 10% of the budget inflows; and that no minister would be present in Parliament. Not a single minister and Parliament is considering a report on the suspicion of money laundering for more than one billion euros. Neither the President of the Government nor the President of the State nor the responsible institutions, regulators. Today, I would least expect representatives of Banka Slovenije, representatives of the police, representatives of the Slovenian State Holding Company, who is responsible for the management of the New Ljubljana Bank, to be present. Not one. It is even more of a shock to me personally that the two parliamentary parties did not even have a position on the suspicion of money laundering for one billion euros in our largest system bank, the NLB State Bank. I am convinced that these two parliamentary parties would have a position if we discussed the resolution on the impact of solar energy on the propagation of insects in South Africa. One billion and two parties had no position. Second, let us say that if the Commission of Inquiry were not to be drawn up and look at certain documents, we would probably not be familiar with this finding at all. For what was found by the Commission of Inquiry has been happening since the end of 2008 and about there until 2012. And I really want to know who we can say we can answer. If the Commission of Inquiry had not been set up to obtain these documents, this matter would probably have passed in Slovenia. And according to these key findings, even the highest summit of the state, the President of the State, the President of the Government, the Minister, has been informed. They got the report, but it didn't happen, at least after this report we have so far, nothing. The Commission of Inquiry is also expected to identify political responsibility. I am interested, for example, when this political summit was informed by certain authorities about what this political summit has done. What was the reaction of the then president of the country, what was the reaction of the then Prime Minister of the Republic, today's President of the Republic, what was the reaction of the current interior minister and everyone else? This document was not made by one political party. This document is the work of an investigative commission composed of members of all parliamentary parties. And in my opinion, this document was adopted unanimously, so it has a personal weight greater than that of a member group. Here we can read that these findings are also made on the basis of documentary documents. Here we can ask ourselves what else happened. We know, for example, that the New Ljubljana Bank has already been rehabilitated twice at the expense of taxpayer money. The last recovery was three years ago. About 5 billion taxpayers' money has been allocated to the entire banking system, and no one has taken any responsibility for this 5 billion to date. No one was relieved, no one gave up. What we can read here, not a single explanation of the names and surnames that the commission has given them has yet responded. I'm sure one day you'll have to put those answers on the table. Answers will have to be given to the table, those in here, which are at least personally burdened with considerable weight, and made on the basis of documentary documents. Who can guarantee that there were no more similar transactions in our banks? Is this really the only job? Because some say that the biggest business is not discovered at all. Here we are talking about one billion, more than 10% of the inflows of the Slovenian budget for one year. We'd like to get those answers. I am shocked by the Director of the Anti-Money Laundering Office when he encourages Members and Members that a specific decision is not appropriate in here, so as not to be supported, as if the Government is not competent to make such demands as the Assembly. The government owns 100 % of the New Ljubljana Bank. 100 percent owner. I'm sure what should be, is that the government would call an immediate assembly, a supervisory council, the bank's administration. Anything can be done. So far, nothing has happened, but the Slovenian public has been informed about this issue for about three to four months, at least publicly. However, these documents have been appearing in Parliament for some time now. Today, Parliament is considering this report, in public, we are talking about this in front of the cameras. There are no ministers in the National Assembly, no President of the Government, no President of the State, no representatives of the New Ljubljana Bank, no representatives of SDH, no representatives of the Bank of Slovenia. As I said in the introduction, Slovenia needs major changes. The first opportunity is Sunday, and the next is October 22nd, when the presidential elections are held.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u191	Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor. Get ready for Mrs. Eva Irgle and Mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u192	Good afternoon. It is not the final report before us, but the partial report, which says that the debate that is taking place today may not be final in any way, as I would say. And that is why it would be at least incorrect to make some assessments and statements today as to what the Commission has actually found out; because the Commission itself finds that it has a huge stranger. I myself have personally read all the partial reports in detail, namely those as tax confidentiality, and those which are closed, as spoke of by my colleague Logar. I must say that I have a feeling today that the Commission is continuing its work with this debate. I have to say, in particular, that I've been paying attention to the document that I'm about, and even though I've read all three reports, I don't know anything. But I know about some footnote I read about, and this document is only mentioned as a number, and the document is not available, so we can't know what it says in this document. However, the Commission of Inquiry or Mr Logar may know. Therefore, today, to speak before the Slovenian public that we all have the opportunity to look into this document, is not true. Let me start by saying what was my primary purpose. This is that the Commission, which was also set up by the majority of this National Assembly, which I am in charge of, will continue its work, especially in the part where the Commission, due to its responsibilities not as full as that of our Commission of Inquiry, will be able to continue and may reach out to other unknowns. I must say that it is extremely unusual, because today we are essentially discussing a document that was not only dealt with by this investigative commission, but also dealt with by the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services, briefly, on a working basis, if that is what I call it. In a way, it is very difficult to say, today I will only talk about this work, as part of the investigative commission's report speaks of, and tomorrow at a closed session we will talk separately about what else the monitoring commission has identified and done. The fact is, if we are to defend the legality of the National Assembly and run the Commission of Inquiry, we must first be aware that we must work very legally ourselves, including as regards the investigation procedure carried out by the Commission. Unfortunately, I still say and, on the other hand, I am pleased and pleased that we have set up this committee, because this Commission now has the powers to finally – and which is not clear from this report – bring about a hearing of certain witnesses that the previous Commission has not even been able to hear. Two things are important to me. One is political responsibility, not criminal activity and a forensic investigation carried out by an investigative commission. But it is true that not only this investigative committee, but all the investigative commissions in the history of the National Assembly, to this day, are very much engrossed and begin to investigate and investigate, of course, because of the easier understanding and detection of political responsibility; and finally, we are entangled in finding everything else, only political responsibilities. The Commission's intention is to discover political responsibility. And the other purpose and purpose of the Commission is; what I had hoped to hear from the Slovenian public today, but I have not heard from it yet, perhaps indirectly, perhaps later the Director will speak out loud what I think I should say to the Slovenian public, which is whether today there are all appropriate guards in the Republic of Slovenia so that such a case can no longer happen; at least not in the way that it happened in this case. And that was what I was missing today, Mr Director, when you spoke and you said that you would not dispute, even though you are a little; but in fact you did not give a clear answer, very clear. Today, the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering has all the necessary powers and grounds in the legislation to act. If these powers were vested in the then office as it has today, it would probably have acted differently and it would have stopped much earlier. That's what I thought I'd hear from you today. But you have a few more minutes, and you still have time to say it, if that's the case. The second thing that seems important to me is that we need to be aware of ourselves, I will mention on purpose, political responsibility begins first at the highest summit. The highest and most informed man in the country is usually the Prime Minister of the Government. What exactly does the President of the government do when this National Assembly confirms his government? We had all the practice, we could see that some were still at night, at half past twelve at night, calling a letter or a government meeting. And what did they do first? First they replaced the Chief of Intelligence and Security, appointed him and appointed the Chief of Staff. What does that tell you? That he wants to have someone in this place who trusts him and that he will have access to information and that he will be informed of all things in time. All the Heads of Government, and then after the hierarchy of the President of the State, certain ministers from their fields of competence and powers are also partly informed. But most of all, the President of the Government. Why am I bringing this up? Because it seems important to me that we know when someone has been informed and when someone has acted. The report shows more or less when the whole thing started and when the account closed. I do not believe that, with such a large amount and with such a story happening in the New Ljubljana Bank, the President of the Government who is leaving would not have informed the next President of the Government, depending on when someone has been informed. I don't know who the informant is, so today I can't talk about this guilt, and I wouldn't afford it because it would be unfair. But I will gladly go so far, along with my members within the Commission, that I will also come to this information, because I think it is right and it is right for the Slovenian public to know this. The second thing that still seems important to me is to know that our commission had a very bad start-up journey, because not all of the parties have appointed their members. The unrelated and SDS have decided not to propose any member to this committee, and have made it clear how serious they think this commission will do. Here's an answer to my colleague, Alenka Bratusek, who asked if this committee would have anything to do if we knew everything today. colleague Alenka, as you yourself have found out, we don't know everything yet. Which is why it seems important to me in particular, because the first thing I wanted and also announced when I set up the Commission is that I asked the Commission of Inquiry and also the committee for the supervision of the intelligence services for material. Do you know what kind of answer I got? So they can't pass it on to me and let me turn to those institutions that own this material. There's gonna be a paradox. I've done this before. In the National Assembly, we will have duplicates of double materials in the basement; one by the Logar Commission; and one by my commission. While all Members are committed to protecting the data by law. Everything we should do should be done only in order to be as competent as it is to inform those from whom they have received the material, to ask if they can provide this material; and to have the same signatures of the confidentiality that the authors of these materials require. They didn't do it. I got a very short answer that they don't have to give it to me. Of course, I asked at least that material that we would not go, because we are so struggling against official barriers and complications, because we simply cannot talk with each other, and we are doing so ourselves within the National Assembly to provide me with at least the material that the authors are themselves. [[…]] Everything they've been producing in their time to the investigative commission. I hope I get it. I haven't got an answer yet. I believe I'll get it because they don't have any left. But what matters to me is that it's some kind of mistrust. I think that all of this Chamber, I am talking about Members and Members in particular, should believe that most have chosen and set certain tasks in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the Law to bring them to an end. And the purpose of this commission, and therefore I call on the unrelated and SDS, because at any time they always have the opportunity to join the committee with their membership, not only to help but also to supervise, is all the more important how this work is done. At the same time, they have made it clear to all citizens and citizens that we are all very serious about this. A very thin line is between political games and the honest work when we talk about investigative commissions. I've been given a lot of impressions that we've set up an investigative committee just so that we can politically dictate either the SD or the SDS or I don't know who. Today I can assure you here that is not my purpose. If you find out this purpose, I will resign as a member of the National Assembly, because I am not going to do so because it is not worth my name or my honor. However, something else is important that it is a pity that you have spent so much time in this work that you also actively cooperate and not only for the documentation submitted. This is where I expected your input deposit, and that's not why. There's still time. Maybe something will change. The problem is, I've heard several times, some between lines, and at the beginning, it's very big that money laundering has caused a bank hole. Well, every serious economist knows this isn't working. The full statements and comments were made at the beginning, but it is true that it will be very clear what was going on at the time, which is also further reinforced in the Logar Commission's report. This is what was the role of all stakeholders – either within the bank or within the regulator, either within the Office, including the NPU, the judiciary, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, all those who had leverage to make the matter more than clear, stop in time or at least warn it. And the fact is, this is the only thing I can claim today that, when I read this report prepared by the Logar Commission, not one, but a large number of people, including with political responsibility, turned their backs. The Indians, why they did this, what their purpose was, didn't reach the Logar Commission. I hope at least we come. However, if we find political responsibility as well as all the necessary elements to correct that part of the legislation that could further protect as guardians that such cases would no longer occur, this would allow us to sleep more easily and more peacefully. If there's anything else that's important to say, no, so far enough because I'm cutting off time for the closed part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u193	Replica, mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u194	Very short. It is because of the small number of our members that we have decided that we cannot participate in the quality of all the investigative commissions that you have set up in this mandate. It is, and I still personally think that the Commission, which has already been set up, could do its work in this area to the end. And as I know, our commissions can only identify the political responsibility of the holders of political functions. What the NPUs were doing wrong, what was going on at Banka Slovenije and so on, I don't know if there's going to be much help here. I want as much work as possible for this committee, and I hope that the result will be something different from the conclusion we have today on the table. Five names are included in this Decision. In fact, it is known that these five politicians knew what was going on and did not act. Well, if we're still looking for reasons, okay, look for other reasons why; but I don't think it matters, it doesn't matter. The important thing is that they knew and did not act. That's all. Unfortunately, seven years after the act, we deal with it. I'm more concerned or I want something like this to happen right now, but from what I'm saying, I don't think we can say that; and that's sad. We are dealing with the past; but today it is possible, I don't know, we don't know, something similar or the same. And that's the worst thing I've ever done.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u195	The text shall be by the representative of the applicant, President of the Commission of Inquiry, Dr. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u196	I hope that the implementation of Mrs Bratušek cannot be understood in this direction, that we should not deal with the past. I hope it wasn't her turn in that direction. I agree with Mr Möderndorfer when he said about the implementation of Mr Male. I was also shocked by the way the director of the Anti-Money Laundering Office presented the previous work of the Office. So apparently the office is operating the same way today. If I turn to Mr Möderndorfer and his statements. He made a little mistake. He talked about our taking a partial report today and therefore partial findings. I have to correct it, we accept the interim report and we accept the final conclusions of the interim report. And these findings are what the Commission of Inquiry came to on the basis of concrete facts and documents. With regard to that footnote, which colleague Möderndorfer saw only as a footnote; if you continued reading that text, you could see that this text was from documents that came from the Ministry of Justice. The footnote merely stated which document was specifically involved, which is an integral part of the report and indicated at the beginning of the open part report. This debate takes place when the Investigative Commission on Banking is not responsible for the issue of money laundering prevention. I have two District Court judgments here in Ljubljana. Let's get this thing straight. Mr Möderndorfer has repeatedly stated that we are not responsible for this and that they are therefore setting up a new investigative commission. Here we have an order from Judge Topolšek concerning NLB documents, preventing money laundering. I quote: “The request contains all the necessary ingredients and is also duly reasoned. In a specific case, the subject is sufficiently specified to allow the court to assess legality. The requested measure, namely to seize documentation relating to the suspicion of money laundering, is appropriate, necessary and unavoidable in relation to all of the above. Then I have the argument of Judge Karmen Erčulj, who decided a little later and who also made a decision on the basis of the complaint of the New Ljubljana Bank, which, you will not believe, in fact, used almost literally the argument of colleague Möderndorfer, here in the debate in the National Assembly, if we are not competent and that is why a new investigative commission is being set up. It took longer, but Judge Karmen Erčulj also decided to seize the documentation. I will now read to you what she decided in another longer explanation: “The Court considers all the proposed documentation concerning the subject matter, purpose and scope of the parliamentary inquiry. It is true that its purpose is primarily, but not exclusively, linked to the identification of bad loans and bank guarantees, but also to the examination of the documentation relating to suspicious transactions will serve its purpose. The investigation is aimed at irregularities in the banking system. However, that bank is the authority with which such documentation is made available.” Please, let us conclude this debate on whether this Commission of Inquiry is competent or not. It has been, is and will also be responsible for preventing money laundering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u197	Replica, Mr. Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u198	My colleague Logar and I have talked about this many times, including on television. Moreover, he said, if anyone is competent, it is the court that is competent to say what the commission of inquiry can and will not do. Comrade Logar, you've forgotten one thing. This holds all that you have read, and I will never deny it; but this has been given to you by the court for one reason only, it has access to the data also because of the regulator, because they did not want to give it to you at first. And, of course, you reasoned, and that's what the NLB was pronouncing. The interpretation you are interpreting today – and therefore I am proving that this is not the case – is that you had narrow conditions. I'll give you an example of why you can't call the former KPK representatives, but they had to be called by the supervisory board, so that she didn't even have those powers. I spoke about this earlier when I spoke about the laws that we must first carry out in the National Assembly to conduct the legal procedure. And you ran into a problem. What did you run into? When you wrote the report or when you found out, ups, you found that you could not access one of the data; you therefore informed the Commission about the supervision of the intelligence and security services. After the commission started its work and she found that she had gone too far again; and she made you another bigger goathouse, which is that she accepted the authority to authorize you in the document to continue your work. Excuse me if you show me an article in the Rules of Procedure and a legal basis that the Intelligence Supervisory Commission authorizes the Banking Hole Commission to do these things on a working basis; sorry, that's not it. You know what we should do — and you are not, and you have missed the opportunity in your conviction that the court’s decision gives you full authority. We should come to the National Assembly and request the National Assembly to extend the work of the Commission of Inquiry. We'd get him right away. Because you haven't responded in two months, I said, "That's enough." That is why we have proposed an investigative commission. Far from telling you anything. Not at all. I'm happy and pleased that you've come with these documents and with a serious job. This is also evident from the report itself. Now, as far as I'm concerned, I'm gonna get this over with. He wanted to teach me a little bit about what the mid-term report is and what it is in part. I used the title as you use it yourself, a partial report of the interim report, first, second, third; not to owe. However, we all know that there is an interim final report. But if you ask me what I have proposed in the pre-trial legal procedure, which, among other things, in Slovenia, you have carefully taken care of and completed the democratic party; this is to break with these interim reports, because it is a simple game. The best would be only a final and final report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u199	The text shall be by the representative of the applicant, President of the Commission of Inquiry, Dr. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u200	This debate is already a bit bizarre. We didn't write a partial report, I'll show you again. It says here – an additional report. At least the address should be read correctly. You were already wrong about the footnote, now you have an additional and then another additional interim; and not a partial report. I'm sorry, but in the National Assembly we can't listen to the interpretation of what two different judges have found twice as far as the mandate of this commission of inquiry is concerned. We can certainly invite everyone here present or anyone else. If they don't respond, we'll force them into the court. If this happens, I am counting on it not to make people so judgmental that they will not go into such futile judicial battles, perhaps they could say that there is a basis why we have given to KNOVS that they will hear about intelligence. We gave this only for one reason, not because of some conspiracy theory that Mr Möderndorfer explained, because we would not know that we have no authority to do so; but because it is a body that specializes in this area. Who's to deal with it? Those who specialize in this area; and then use these findings usefully in the work of the Commission of Inquiry. But if you intend to run your commission of inquiry differently, it is your design, your mandate and so on. But this commission of inquiry has done its job; it has adopted an interim report; it has heard everyone it wants; it has received all the documents it has requested regarding the prevention of money; and it has made an interim report with its conclusions. But it's your decision whether to support them or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u201	Replica, Mr. Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u202	Thank you very much, President. The Court does not provide for the mandate of the Commission of Inquiry. Never, never; but only the National Assembly. The Court has ruled whether you have the right to access the data. This has been decided not to mention that the courts decide on the mandate of the commission of inquiry and therefore teach us all here to teach false beliefs. And you know that very well, by the way. But it sounds better when we say that the court ordered that the commission have this and this mandate. As far as conspiracy theories are concerned, I am no master of conspiracy theories. There's a master sitting next to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u203	Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor. Get ready, mags. Andrej Shircelj and Mag. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u204	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The commission of inquiry to identify abuses in the banking system, you'll probably agree with me, has done an extraordinary job so far. Excellent work. Why? Since the work carried out by the Commission of Inquiry so far should be carried out by law enforcement authorities and law enforcement authorities; however, they have not done so. So far, we have had an interim report on the Factor Bank and Probank on this investigative committee. There's been a lot of fraud going on inside the banking system. Now we have the same special report on the Farrokh issue. In 2009 and 2010, payments were carried out in the New Ljubljana Bank, which corresponds to the definition of money laundering and terrorist financing. And what's most shocking to me, and what the proposaler or the chairman of the commission of inquiry pointed out in the first place, is that a large number of people and a large number of authorities in this country knew about it. But it never came out of the public eye, that's really interesting, because sometimes things like this come into the public eye, which really should have stayed where they should have been because of their integrity. And secondly, none of these authorities have informed the prosecution. And I know, Mr Secretary of State Mr. Stare, you have a hard job today and you are here today because there is no minister here, even though the Minister should be here; I will also tell you why. This is a matter which, in my opinion, is the biggest affair in a single country in Slovenia; and this case will certainly be recorded in history as an example in which it has failed virtually everything. Earlier, Mr Male, as Director of the Anti-Money Laundering Office, had said a number of things; he was reading what was out of the law and so on. Mr. Male, you can read whatever you want. Unfortunately, the facts are different and it is right that the citizens and citizens accompanying us today also know this. The Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering received, if I may say so, two French and Hungarian offices dealing with the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism. After the first E.R., nothing happened. Mr. Plaussteiner, who was the boss at the time, did nothing. After the second E.R., something small moved, but do you know, only when? After four months, after the second E.R. I mean, if this is not an unscrupulous performance of its work, also irresponsible of the state, it is ultimately an office that represents the state in public and thereby gives it a reputation. Mr. Male, I would deal with this, and also with how you will protect the good name of this office, and you are unable to do so. You're still protecting him! You're protecting him instead of admitting that this place was really wrong and wrong. So after the second ER, Mr. Plaussteiner wakes up and sends this to the police. The police are investigating this or are investigating it at the beginning, as far as is known from the files of the commission of inquiry, and then suddenly after one year, it is drying up; and on 1 and 6 January 2012 the police issue is closed. And here I am interested – too bad that there is no Minister of the Interior – who had this interest to conclude such a case prematurely; without any notice to the prosecution or the public. Even the political summit of that time, while this was happening with the Anti-Money Laundering Office, was informed of this, and it was informed in detail, not just so, in detail, and was informed several times. It was notified for the first time in November 2010, by Sova. The Commission clearly notes in this report that they have waived their obligation to act, which is why they are politically responsible in the Farrokh case. But the key to this is that the case didn't come to the prosecution. Mr Secretary of State, you can answer me why the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. You were then Vice President Klemenčič. Why the Anti-Money Laundering Office? Why did the police, other state authorities, supervisory institutions, banks, the political summit at the time, i.e. everyone who was aware of these crimes, not respond to one single mandate of the State Prosecutor's Office, even though they should be legally required? I hope that you are aware, at least primarily for the police, of section 148 of the Criminal Procedure Act, which clearly states that after the police have collected certain notifications – and apparently collected them, because at least one year has done something on this case, it is said that some of the findings must have been, even if it were not a crime – to inform the prosecution; the police have not done so. And that's what my colleague Logar was talking about earlier. Personally, as a citizen of this country, as a Member of the National Assembly, who also represents citizens and citizens in this Parliament, I demand answers on what has been done by the decision-making structures in the New Ljubljana Bank. What was the political summit doing back then? I personally think, and the Commission also insists that this was an incredible drive between the policy and the bank, because given that all the supervisory authorities have cancelled, I can't imagine it any different. And that's why the case didn't come out. Why, though, we may see in future, even after some financial upheaval. In this case, once again, the supervisory mechanisms, which have the task of overseeing, have completely cancelled. What are they monitoring? To monitor and detect possible anomalies, errors, untransparent and suspicious business practices. He therefore cancelled his supervision at the New Ljubljana Bank. The Bank of Slovenia, which is the highest regulator in our country, has not done its job. Banka Slovenije is also a supervisor for the transparency of business. It has not done its work more than clearly, which is also evidenced by the documentation and conclusion of the Commission of Inquiry, has not systematically monitored the prevention of money laundering and thus the possible financing of terrorism. As has already been said, the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering has also completely cancelled. At that time, he was the head of this office, Mr. Plaussteiner. Here, let me mention that I know Mr Plaussteiner from another matter and I do not think he has cut himself any better in that case. I know him from the Patria investigative commission when I interviewed him myself as president of this investigative commission; not to mention that the gentleman was running from head to toe, but I understand that, stress, that's the situation. But the gentleman also had a virtually selective memory in the closed part of the session, he was losing it at times, or he was referring to the commitment to silence in closed work, over and over again. And today, on this commission of inquiry on the abuse of the banking system, Mr Plaussteiner simply said that he did not know why they did not keep these things informed. Does that seem responsible to you, Mr. Male? I ask you this as a member of the National Assembly representing people who ask me how this is possible. I'd like you to give me a specific answer. In my opinion and also in the view of the Commission of Inquiry, Mr Plaussteiner is subjectively and objectively responsible for this situation. He did not act transparently, did not act in accordance with OECD rules, did not act responsibly and professionally, nor did he act in the interests of the State. It is obvious, however, that I will not say too much, act in the interest of the political summit, perhaps. That's why it didn't go any further. He didn't heed the warnings coming from abroad. Don't you think that's an alarming sign? That's what someone should be responsible for. Nor has the Commission done its job to prevent corruption. Mr Klemenčič is now a minister, I should never have become a minister, but the Minister and I have already renegotiated so many times that I will not open it here. However, Mr Justice Minister, the then President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, himself said that he was informed by whistleblower that suspicious transactions were taking place, that it might be a suspicion of money laundering and thereby financing terrorism. And what did Mr. Klemenčič say to that? That it's not his jurisdiction. So the Minister, then the President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, who, with the support of the media, of course, built on the fight against corruption, on justice, on transparent functioning, on the basis of the rule of law and human rights, suddenly trampled everything and simply said that it did not belong to his department. Mr State Secretary, it is interesting, however, that something else always belongs to his department – when it is necessary to deal with the Slovenian Democratic Party and when it is necessary to deal with Mr Janez Janša. Then it all kind of belongs to his department. Of course, he judges because he was awarded a ministerial position by overthrowing the government of John Janša. And one last thing, and that's the last point I'm going to say, has failed in this case. In this case, media or research journalists have also canceled. Researchers have failed to do their work and are not doing it today. It's almost unreported today. We're talking about the majority media. And I see that as a serious problem. I would like to know what will be the renewal of this debate today in the media. I'm really curious. If there's anything, 'cause there's too much heat in here. And here, I'm sorry, there was obviously a bar between the bank, the political summit, the various state authorities and the media. And in this case, this girdle was perfect. I will support all three conclusions proposed by the Commission of Inquiry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u205	The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj. Get ready, mags. Dusan Verbich and Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u206	Thank you very much, President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! I will essentially start with one detail, which has already been mentioned here, but was not widely explained in today's debate. This is a detail of the fact that the management of the New Ljubljana Bank has forgiven this company Farrokh of the entry fee. Although there was some kind of exit commission, the last time I was told that the commission for a telephone bill was 2 euros; there was no commission here. In short, this state bank was essentially doing this for an Iranian company, working for the Iranians in a kind of solidarity to some extent. Even the social issue could be said in this case. Yes, if there really was no commission, if there was no payment for this service. However, if payment was made for this service, then all of these bodies, as we have already discussed, should pay attention to this. My predecessors have found that the organs did not act as they should. Opposite thesis, perhaps they acted as someone had arranged them and as someone had directed them. I'm not saying that the whole body, but certain people, so that they didn't work. But let the money that one bank allows itself to carry out a payment transaction with a company that receives money from a country that is subject to an embargo for the manufacture of a nuclear bomb and a nuclear weapon, I'm sorry. According to some data in the newspapers I read, this transaction costs 30-50% or 10%. 300 to 500 million. Where's that money, if that's true? Where's the money, and then who's running this country?Oh, my God! For then there is a parallel structure in this country, which actually leads it; unless this was done for a humanitarian reason for the Iranians who were under the embargo. And here, excuse me, we can discuss this report, in my personal opinion this is a matter. The answers to these questions should be added. For there is a policy manifesting itself, and there are those who own or run the country. This money is probably still in circulation today, or some services are still being paid today in this country, colleague Bratušek mentioned two funds in Luxembourg for subordinate bonds and so on, it is said of 300 million. I'm not pretending that this transaction was made for free. And if it wasn't made for free, then someone got paid; and then with that payment today, they can run the country and they've already run the country. I don't know what parallel structure. I think that with this money I could buy some elections in a country, or at least have a significant impact on any elections in that country, or have a significant impact on certain transactions. I think that further reports, as well as the work of the new Commission in this regard, are likely to need to be added in this direction. I don't believe in coincidence in this case, I really don't. And probably the government representatives can also have data for this kind of criminal transaction, what it costs for a country, for a bank that is in the European system. This is true, this is probably the price in the case of such transactions. And I think that's what this is all about. And that also comes from, and in fact, what is the policy in this country, if that is true and if that money is also used for political purposes, lobbyist purposes in this country. I think there's still a lot of work to be done here.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u207	The word has magic. Dušan Verbich. Prepare Mr. Janko Weber and Mr. Marko Ferruga.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u208	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Nice greeting, Secretary of State, Director, Members and Members of Parliament! I must admit that when I listened attentively to the debate so far, if I very gravely define it, the debate went on the one hand by my colleagues and colleagues, who, in some direction after the so-called political rhetoric, is going in a direction that is very vague, especially in the desire to distance the point so that we can talk in concrete terms about responsibility; I am talking about political responsibility. On the other hand, the debate is about somehow giving an indication that the current parliamentary investigative commission is – indisputable and finding – that the indisputable institutions of the country are far from doing the tasks and powers for which they were established. Political responsibility, the purpose of the Commission of Inquiry is to identify political responsibility. I ask whether it has been in these 26 years that we can talk about the political responsibility of a person. If I am even more specific, can we talk about the criminal, material, liability of the holders of public authority. I think this is utopia right now. I hope that this kind of debate will help to make this happen in due course. Before I go to the debate on the agenda, I must touch on the debate of the Honourable Director of the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering. I must admit, you may be a little disappointed, I am really disappointed at your reasoning or explanation of your colleague's past actions, because the 2001-2007 law on money laundering prevention, and I must admit that in the past I myself have been somewhat involved in these processes. During those periods when this was also happening, we had intensive training by the Office, which was a binding training for bank employees. And so strictly, so consistently, it was expected and demanded that bank officials and bank management be carried out consistently all procedural and material procedures of the law. For this reason, I am surprised by the comment that goes into counsel — yes, it is. I just can't agree with that. On the basis of these statements, however, I conclude that there was clearly some unwritten rule at that time that consistent compliance with the measures concerning non-compliance with the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering was applicable to privately owned banks. For if the case of Farrokh has now been identified and the case has been established, here I immediately wonder how many of these farroque cases are for a smaller amount that has not been found at all; and probably never will be. But the fact is, even as a supervisor, the real regulator Banka Slovenije did not carry out its activities as it should; this means that it was owned by banks, and in general the New Ljubljana Bank, a different approach, otherwise behaved and was obviously allowed to do so. That is why I am joining myself; in recent times the public statement by Boštjana M. Zupančič on the so-called concept of a deep state has also been made. There's no other way to think about it. One rule applies, if I speak of the past, to the banks with the responsible owner, these are private-owned banks; and banks with the owner of the state-owned bank. So much for that. About the report itself. I must admit that I expected the findings of the Commission of Inquiry to confirm my thesis a few times before the good two years ago, which I pointed out several times in this National Assembly and in the Home Committees; in those days, some Members and Members of Parliament looked at me a little strangely when my thesis was clear. The responsibility for irregularities, and in general this billions of bank holes, is undeniable on the part of the members of the Boards of Supervisory Boards and the regulator of the Bank of Slovenia. And this conclusion of this report also proves this thesis. And I must admit that I am joining all Members and Members who are a little concerned about how many of these matters are still in these state-owned systems, which are simply not open-ended, or even going through some procedures, if I may say, to clean some documents. As far as the report itself is concerned, in the first place, all praise is given to the commission. It is certainly necessary to commend the President in particular, for the work of such a product is on the shoulders of the one who leads. That's why I think it's right to say it in public. However, I do have a question about this report. And I would ask the President, if possible, to answer me in particular if I am at point 2.4, where all the circumstances or materials that are the basis for identifying a five billion-dollar bank hole are very precise as well. But you know, I miss one thing, if I'm specific, three. In point 10, you wrote very nicely to determine also the reasons for the forced liquidation of Probank and Factor Bank and the sense and cost-effectiveness of the measure of forcible liquidation, which is for this, I will not repeat who has taken this decision. Very nice. But here I miss the reason it happened. The reasons why these banks, when I'm talking about the Bank, are even being maintained? Because if the decision by the state was not supported by private banks, if I said so through the finger, a billion things of tax money wouldn't work, even today as a result of the activity of Probank and Factor Bank, which we know are now at DUTB. That is why I have this question why this is not included. The next issue, I also have a question why it is not mentioned here, I think it is right to highlight the findings of these experts, forensics at the largest bank, the New Ljubljana Bank, which we knew under the so-called Kosovo Commission. Because I am very interested in whether that — if we know that Kosovo and also foreign forensics, which also cost over a million euros — was the purpose of cleaning up or really their contribution to clarifying the reasons and stabilising the business itself. And another thing that is in the banking system, at least in private ownership, is very clear; but I think that in state-owned banks it is very blurring and hiding is one category of write-offs. Because it's very interesting when you somehow get some kind of information like this, it's kind of horrifying to know how many of these write-offs are in a bank or in state-owned banks, because in private property, the responsible owner still cares about profits. That's why the bank was set up. So much, if possible, in principle any answer. As for the following, where the so-called interrogation procedure is extremely well recorded and so on. I must admit that it is unreasonable or embarrassing for me to have leading persons in banks owned by the State to declare to the President of the Administration that the heads of the legal service did not forgive because they did not have a basis. With such a great loss; I will not say how many of these claims have been transferred to the DUTB or written off! Again, it's very simple in a private bank. The responsible owner, if the President of the administration or the bank officer does not work in accordance with internal rules or with a strategy, is not a matter of days and a working court. Things stop very quickly. There are a lot of things here that just prove that the most likely regulator, and what I mentioned in the introduction in this case, the special authority, is called the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering, which is under the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance, were simply criteria – one is for state banks and one is for private. I will not go into writing at all then, which very nicely shows the processes related to the process of preventing money laundering; and I will just use the term scandalous. Those of us who get to know at least a little about such things are not allowed to do so in the past. I conclude that I am certainly fully in favour of such conclusions and proposals, and I hope that as often as possible we will have this kind of debate in the hope that responsibilities will really start to apply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Here you go, proposer of Dr. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u210	A brief explanation. The matter concerning the Factor Bank and Probank is included in the interim report we adopted in November. There is one section devoted to this issue. However, as regards the effectiveness or inefficiency of the Kosovo NLB inspection and the write-off claims, the final report of the Commission of Inquiry will be made by the Commission of Inquiry.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber has the floor to prepare Mr Marko Ferluga and Mr Jan Mahnic. Here you go, Mr. Webber.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u212	Thank you for your word. Perhaps first in the light of some debates or a specific debate of the Magi. Tonina, if Nova Ljubljanska Banka were privately owned, this would not have happened, however, it must be said that during that period, from 2007 to 2011, the representative of the Belgian NCB was responsible for risk management. So this bank entered to manage the shares in Nova Ljubljanska Bank, at least to one extent, in a way that is normally managed in a private bank. But it is obvious that Mr Deroose did not do his job at the time, but it is true that the composition itself was also responsible for the risk in the New Ljubljana Bank, which is interesting, because also after Mr Deroos, for example, Boža Jašovic was responsible for the risk, then again the representative of the Bank and then Marjan Kramar, and Mr Marko Voljč before Mr Deroos. We can always see that none of these persons have done their job successfully either as a representative of the private owner or as a representative of the state in this business. The important thing is that someone does not do his job to replace someone who does not do his job; not to sell the institution where someone has done his job badly. And something similar can be said, for example, if the government is doing its job poorly, it is not necessary to sell the country; it is necessary to replace those who mismanage it. And something similar applies to banks, and something similar has also been true of our construction. Instead of replacing those who tried to exercise personal interests and letting others run businesses in order to maintain high knowledge in Slovenian construction, these companies were more likely to be destroyed. In short, the chances of preventing money laundering are, above all, that each one will carry out his or her task. However, as this task has been done, it is very clear from this report. In fact, we cannot say that we can trust these institutions that are responsible for money laundering in Slovenia. I can also say from private experience that the new law on the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism, which we have adopted in this mandate, has released two highly eminent, important institutions in Slovenia, i.e. the so-called bad bank and the Slovenian State Holding. They shall only carry out the tasks of reselling the assets they manage. Many times we try not to abuse reselling in these procedures in order to make it cheap to repossess those who have made a huge debt. But when I looked at this law that was submitted, both institutions were not included in this law as obliged to report also on the risk of money laundering and terrorist financing. Nor did the Anti-Money Laundering Office show any great interest, which I think it should have warned and demanded that these two institutions be involved in this by themselves in its basic function. I am not going to say that we may have a systemic problem in this money laundering; but it shows that we have actually been under-effective and that even some great interest has not been shown. The sale of Gorenjska banka, Savea, insurance companies when you monitor who wants to become and with what capital the owner does not feel that processes are going on intensively, to eliminate those who may still have capital of suspicious origin. This is my assessment and I hope to make it based on all the information I am monitoring, including through the media and other available procedures. In all of these matters, which have been detected within the work of the Commission of Inquiry, it is imperative to adopt guidelines, conclusions proposed to be taken from the summit, if I may say so, to send a clear message to the management of the country that such practices in Slovenia should be concluded and that this chapter should be organised at a significantly higher level; and to build trust within the country itself and also in cooperation with other institutions of other countries dealing with this issue. Not that we will react until someone from the outside alerts us to the problem of money laundering. I hope that from today's debate and the conclusions that I think will be adopted, one concrete move will be made to address money laundering in Slovenia at the highest possible level and to turn a new leaf within the administration of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Ferluga has the floor; Mr Jean Mahnic and Mr Jožef Horvat are to be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Ferruga.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u214	Thank you for your word. Greetings to the Secretary of State and the Director of the Agency! First of all, I would give Mr Logar's commission a compliment, although I received negative commendation from Angiet, but okay, we also accept it. I think that in this debate it is necessary to find out what the 2009 laws were like and what they are now. I think we've taken some steps. This was also said by the Director of the Money Laundering Agency in the sense that they had become an inspection body. So far, this has not been the case, so some steps have been taken. We can debate how proactive all these bodies were in those days, how legally possible it was to take steps forward so that no crime in the direction of money laundering could take place. It is also true for Mrs Bratuškova to say the same thing, and she had the opportunity and the power to make a difference or to make a proposal. Once again, it must be said that the current Director was still aware of the situation. Of course, he must accept what was done with his predecessor, but it is a single agency and it cannot be different. It is essential, however, that he trusts the institutions back. We will only do so by getting the Commission to reach out on one side to certain political proposals, including some professional proposals to do so. On the other hand, I expect the ministries and the Agency to make concrete proposals on their own, such as becoming operational and efficient employees of the Agency. I would certainly not want or wish to see that our country Slovenia is as one of the main money launderers for Iran's illegal nuclear programme or anything else; we are said to be among the supporters of terrorism. I think that this is very negative and the impact on the entire international community is not negligible. I think that we all know that all such matters and discussions are very well accompanied not only by the embassy, but also by other services that are competent and report on them. I wouldn't want this to become just political accounting with anyone else on the one hand; on the other hand, to become a schizophrenic, self-destructive situation, to always appear in some negative light; but I think we have countless good things. What is bad, however, clearly needs to be corrected. We, as legislators, will also take all appropriate measures in this direction, so that we can somehow get closer to any criminal offence being punished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Mr. Jean Mahnič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u216	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Messengers and Members, first look at this irony. We know what plans or, rather, plans the government has regarding the implementation of the arbitration agreement. And when you want to ask this government what the plans are or what the government will do in the event of a conflict, they will immediately accuse you of croaking with weapons and so on. But if your activity, or better said inactivity, allows you to wash billions of dollars to buy and manufacture a nuclear bomb that can prove to be a threat to world peace, then what? President of the State, head of any research centre at the Faculty of Economics, minister, secretary of state, head of Terme Catež or Marine Portorož and so on. But you see this irony, this duality, how do you deal with certain subjects in this country? Mr Dobovšek said well, but what about the fourth branch of power. The media? Please! How much did the media even report on this matter? How much have the media reported on this? Nothing. Why? How much of the money from these commissions has ended up on account of the media reporting, better said, not reporting it? And you don't even have to detect hot water. There is no need to detect warm water because it is known who was in a position and where responsibility was. And so did you, Mr Stare, it was interesting to see your facial mimic as you were changing colors when Angie was reporting. Do you know what was said in the closed session? I'm not gonna tell you who said it, not when not how. If you would send a different KPK forward than you did when you said, "We've covered up the whistle. Not if someone sends in a name and last name, this man is not whistle-blower if he actually exists. When you covered up where it came from and who sent it, they didn't take it seriously and the procedure didn't start. The same Mr. Klemenčich. That's what you two were saying in the open when they were before the Intelligence and Security Services Supervisory Commission. But for each of these only by name – Pahor, Križanič, Stare, Klemenčič, Plaussteiner, Zalar, Klesar, Selan. These are people who were then in positions that could have been prevented; who could have prevented us from talking about the need for a year and more, that there had been any action at all. But it's not interesting that just before Owl was informed of what was going on, that the director of the Owl would be replaced, and that Sebastian Selan would come for the director of the Owl. After he has done his work in Owl, he is the director of Terme Catež, a company owned by Bojan Petan, a prominent member of Forum 21 and a close ally of Milan Kučan. Isn't that interesting? That Mr Klemenčič and Mr Stare are today the first two persons of the justice ministry to be able to deal with this; they are not. Isn't it interesting that on the basis of some anonymity, some writing, the police come to individual addresses at six in the morning? Here, when documents go public when public meetings are held, did the police knock anywhere? Is it possible she went to NLB? Did she go to the former directors? Has she gone to see Mr. Plaussteiner, Mr. Chief? What kind of police is that? This isn't about suspicion. What happens now that the reports are adopted when everything is black and white, what will the police do? As Mr Ferruga has said, will we, in fact, become the black of our country's reputation when we discuss this? I don't know what it's blacking out with, whether it's done or now it's being discussed. Place everything under the rug, as well as the specialists you know about it, and that's why you're also on these functions as you are. Mr. Male, no self-criticism, no self-reflection, nothing. The question is whether because you were there; or because it is still being done. There was no answer to any question. And really, it's just a question of how the media will report on this today. My answer is that they won't, because the hand washes the hand. They will not report now, and I am sure that – depending on what the report of the commission led by colleague Möderndorfer – there will also be no reporting on it. What will the police do, Mr. Chief? Nothing, because certain people have to be protected.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u217	Thank you very much. I must say, Mr. Jan Mahnic, that you know that the government cannot defend itself because it has wasted time. [[advertising from the hall]] I agree. It's just tactical, but it's true. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Let's move on. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Get Dr. Mitja Horvat and Dr. Ange Logar ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u218	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. All those who follow today's debate! I would like this debate to come to this stage in order to name those responsible with names and surnames, but unfortunately, the system is such that those who will produce the name and surname of someone responsible – and it is known exactly who were responsible at the time when billions of money was washed – will probably be more protected than we who will be articulating these names. I'll probably go to jail first than the one who looked away when all this was happening. My first recognition is to the committee led by colleague Anja. Although I am only on the reserve bench, I am glad that today there is some consensus to support all these conclusions that are proposed. Colleagues and colleagues, although we are at the door of the next national elections or at the end of the term, we must not be quiet here, we must not turn our eyes and ears away. We must be the main sponsor of our taxpayers. Too much of their own money was thrown into bank holes. What happened to this affair of Irangate; more precisely, the Slovenian affair of Irangate, because it was one of 1986 that was brewed by the U.S. administration; but I don't care about it and it doesn't hurt me. Slovenia's Irangate or Irangate 2.0 actually threw a lot of manure at our country, this young Slovenian country. We're not a credible country. Why? Because law enforcement doesn't work. And every day, the taxpayers, my citizens are pulling their sleeves and telling me what I've already said here a hundred times – Take those who took away from us. And we have to come to an end with this affair and once and for all expose this parallel system that operates in this country, this parallel country. We make laws here. Yeah, of course, laws, if you don't, if someone doesn't, let's say a police officer does the road safety law, but when he sees that some protected person brings a lot of speed along the highway and radar turns away, he doesn't see it and doesn't detect it. And the key findings of the Commission include the fact that, for example, Commissioner Farrokh during the period when his operations by the Anti-Money Prevention Office were already marked as suspicious, he was detected, the Bureau detected and indicated that his business was suspicious, and was monitored and investigated by Sova, the police, Bank of Slovenia, the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering and his business was informed of the entire political summit; this committee continued to operate. In this bank, which you are told is your bank, which you have already recapitalised several times and you want some to continue to have for your bank to continue to launder money, that some will continue to drill holes and keep emptying your wallets and keep restricting the development of Slovenia. You know what a $5 billion bank hole is? This is more than half the annual budget of the Republic of Slovenia. What would we do with that? Who is handcuffed today for this or for this money laundering? Nobody. And we know who was in key positions from 2009 to 2010, who should have seen it, but they saw it; but they closed their eyes and ears. Until the National Assembly is truly a sponsor of Slovenian taxpayers, unless we reach the end of this affair in this mandate, of course, what is within our jurisdiction, we do not have handcuffs, in a way unfortunately. And if anyone thinks in this country that an anonymous person from Iran has come to the window of an NLB office and some employee with 650 euros has opened an account and placed some 10 million; if anyone thinks the matter is going that way, they're damn wrong. It's all been done before. That employee at the window couldn't forgive the commission. Experts say that commissions for such transactions are, of course, between 40 and 60 percent. Now let's each figure out what 40 or 60 percent of 1 billion is. It's someone's job to embarrass the state that hurts me the most. It's not about money, the country's embarrassed, the country's on its knees about it; we're not credible. I am not saying that this money laundering is the responsibility of this coalition, because of course it is not; we know when it happened. But this government should have an extraordinary session every day, if necessary, and will have to determine what is in its competence to actually shut down those people who were then responding. It would be a credible government and it would be a credible state. Who else trusts us? Who? And then we wonder why we have relatively little investment within the European Union. We have very little foreign investment. And we still don't understand Comrade Janko Weber has stumbled in the execution of his colleague Tonin, who has rightly found that more privatisation means less corruption. [[…]] It is true that KBC was then co-owner of the New Ljubljana Bank, but this does not mean that we had, in general, a responsible owner. Until we know until we've all made reforms in our heads thinking that private property is better than state property, nothing will be from this country until then. And until we understand that even in the banking system, there has been a new business model for quite some time, the Uberisation of banking. Some such belief in this state bank that if we do not have a state bank, then who will financially service Slovenian companies. Ask Slovenian companies who has the most efficient and most expensive financial service. Ask. Here I want the actual mandate to last as long as this commission of inquiry does not really reach the bottom of this affair until there are at least 10 people on this list who will have to be handcuffed the next day. And then we Members will be able to have some satisfaction before our taxpayers, and we can honestly say that we have done everything in our power to catch those who actually represent a parallel system in our country that decides everything, decides that we have actually destroyed that parallel country that works primarily for our own benefit; but not for the benefit of all, 2 million and something else, citizens and citizens of this country. I will support all these conclusions and wish the Commission a successful job to the end!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Dr. Ange Logar has the floor. Prepare Mr. Janez Janša and Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u220	Thank you, Chairman. If I continue where my colleague Horvath has finished, I think there should be a little more than 10 of those who deserve handcuffs. But you have to be honest. I think those three men there have substantially more leverage, authority and authority to do this than the Members here. Members here can be warned of irregularities, and that's all we can do. From here on, it's a matter of law enforcement to do their job. My colleague Ferlug had another very interesting monologue ahead of us before us, if it harms the reputation of the New Ljubljana Bank and that we should not discuss it or that it is not good to discuss it so much. I think they've already taken it into account on national television. Although this debate today takes longer than the discussion of all points so far, the only address on the topic of the parliamentary session on the MMC – DZ website: The auditors will receive a green light for the supervision of the Bank of Slovenia. Then this is reality, you see. When we talk about real problems, the cameras are somehow going somewhere else and they're reporting on things that, say, here in the National Assembly is not even a long and wide debate. Here, for four hours, the debate, on the one hand, is not state-owned, national television is hardly any word on the subject. I'm just going to give one example of an illustration that completely detracts from the opening act of Mr Male, chairman of the Anti-Money Laundering Office, which I think we've all kind of disgusted ourselves. On 22 July 2010, the Anti-Money Laundering Office opened a suspicious transaction file. This means that he estimated that there was a reasonable suspicion of money laundering in the New Ljubljana Bank. He started collecting transaction data in Nova Ljubljanska Banka. He informed Sovo, Banka Slovenija and so on, or very slowly, but nevertheless. You'd expect the Bureau to open up a suspicious transaction to do something. But you won't believe it, since 22. 7. By the end of Farrokh’s business with the State NLB, the volume of business had not changed completely; even more, it had increased. While Plaussteiner monitored suspicious transactions in the NLB and informed Banka Slovenije where to monitor and dispose of this, many citizens in the European Union and around the world were still receiving money for frozen chickens, saffron, house purchases and so on. Is this the proper supervision of the Anti-Money Laundering Office? Even more so, on October 5th, NLB itself reported a suspicious transaction, so we have now had a suspicious record by the Anti-Money Laundering Office, only a report by NLB for a suspicious transaction, from then on it is still undisturbed until 31. 12. 2010 Farrokh did business with Novo Ljubljanska Banka. Sova has informed the state summit that it is a serious, very risky business, if I use this term, we will say more about it tomorrow; but the police have dealt with it, and Mr Farrokh has come to Slovenia without delay and has opened two additional accounts in the New Ljubljana Bank, where he has then worked; when all these authorities have dealt with it. Now tell me if this is really the right control. Have all the jobs really done what they're doing? I don't think so. It is unreasonable, unreasonable, that someone today hopes in a mustache to claim that everything was fine and that it was in accordance with law and authority. I'm sorry. It's unreasonable. Or, say, Bank of Slovenia. Here I have a guidance document on the implementation of measures in the area of money laundering prevention and terrorist financing for the banking sector. Otherwise it's classified, but I got him off the Internet, so can you, I don't know how they manage classified documents. Point 1 clearly states: The Commissioner shall be responsible for the management of the money laundering system, i.e. the money laundering officer in the bank, and the management shall have the ultimate responsibility that the bank, with the money laundering and terrorist financing system, adequately manages the risk in this area. In short, the management is responsible. This is a 2008 document. Banka Slovenije finds the suspicion of money laundering, finds that they are guilty on the bank's administration, writes the order, initiates the criminal procedure. And then in one phase, he says, "Okay, but we're just going to stop it." And you tell me if this is the proper conduct of the authority in charge of supervision. No, no, no. And we have cases like this all over the place. I believe that my colleague Brana Grims, who has studied the intelligence and police work in detail, will be able to say something about this at tomorrow's meeting of the National Assembly. Once we figure out the system's failure, the guys, one manual brake, we need to pull and we need to make a change, because that's just not going to work. If this way, without some catharsis he continues to work, ha, because today it may not be Iranian; it is, I don't know, Saudi, Qatari, any money; and we are still here discussing and grinding. Change needs to be made, change.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Mr. Janez Janša has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u222	Today we are discussing in this National Assembly the biggest individual criminal case in the history of Slovenia. Farthest to the greatest. There is no minister at this meeting, the left wing of Parliament is completely empty and not many Members have read the secret part of the report. The positive note of the whole is that the report has been unanimously adopted, which I do not think has happened many times in this national assembly. The committee, of course. As has been said many times, we are discussing a shocking matter, but this is not of interest to those media in Slovenia that are considered national. Maybe that's the answer to the question of where the commissions went from this job. Most of you remember how the Patrio affair broke out in 2008, but it was an accusation of receiving an unknown prize in an unknown place; and after ten years, it fell infamously. But when this broke out, national television spent most of its time in an information program, the same biggest commercial television, three weeks ago, all the newspapers considered national. Now it's a billion euros in illegal transactions, the whole billion is illegal transactions. Iran was under the embargo, but not for buying chicken, furniture and so on, the Iranians could have bought it peacefully where they wanted it. The embargo applied to certain things, especially strategic raw materials. In order to purchase these raw materials and to pay for their agency and those who helped them to do so, particularly in the West, they needed a bank that is within the Eurosystem. Chickens could also be paid directly from their banks or from Russian or Indonesian banks; they could not carry out these transactions, at least not for a long time and to such an extent, without the assistance of a bank that is part of the Eurosystem. Transactions of this billion to 30 000 and more individual accounts, if you read the entire report, represent crimes in at least ten cases, say at least 10 individual crimes have been committed when it comes to Slovenian criminal law. The sea of international conventions and sanctions, the obligations we have as a member of the European Union and NATO in the fight against the proliferation of nuclear weapons, proliferation and the proliferation of chemical weapons, have been violated. Through the New Bank of Ljubljana, components for the manufacture of nuclear weapons and chemical weapons were purchased. This was discovered by many institutions abroad, investigated; our institutions lied not only on the inside but also on the outside. Even after complete lying was no longer possible, the foreign partners were provided with manipulative information. If someone gets a notice that there are suspicious transactions amounting to EUR 700 000, he is acting at a level five; but if the truth were to say that it is 700 million, he is acting at the first level. And it's not true that there was a real annex in the numbers, because each country just got all the data in the annexes for that country; there was no whole number anywhere. And interestingly, no annexes have been sent to partner services in those countries that were most interested. It's actually an unheard-of thing. This lie continues even more recently, we have heard the then President of the KPK, who was aware of it; the current Minister of Justice, who said that he had filed a criminal complaint in this regard, said this publicly on television, then made it a little softer that it was an application. We finally found out it wasn't any of this. Although there was a signed agreement between the KPK and the police at the time, how is it done to transmit the various information concerning the powers of other authorities. It is strictly prescribed by the indents of this Agreement, but nothing has happened. Mr Stare gave some investigator at the NPU a document where they had previously cut some things off, that they did not know exactly what was going on, at least that's how this investigator said on the committee; then every trace at the NPU was lost. There is no police representative here today. Those who have made sure that the investigation is not a glass run by the police today. And if you expect them to look into it now – ourselves, then we are great optimists. One of the coalition types said that it was such a big deal that it was impossible for the new government to hand over government affairs without mentioning it. When it comes to handing over government affairs, I accepted your business from Mr Pahor and did not mention this matter to me in a word. In internal matters, she accepted this business from her colleague, Gorenak, and they did not mention it to him. Nor to the Minister of Finance, Mr Šuštersič, nor to anyone else. The conspiracy was made perfect here. And now you'll be wondering how that's possible. We heard someone say he wasn't a fan of conspiracy theories. Tell me what it is then. How is it possible that someone across Slovenia's largest state bank not only does a billion euros, but is doing it for the purpose of sowing death? Iran is still today, but at the time, it was the main sponsor of Islamic terrorism in the Shiite branch. See what is happening in Yemen, Syria; even in the West, though less. That's mostly where they're holed up. And it was clear to all those who were dealing with it. Everyone. Everyone who wrote up about chickens knew it wasn't about chickens, it wasn't about Mickey Mouse. I think at least they knew that. No formal authority in Slovenia has concluded that this business is permitted. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has a special commission dealing with this topic. The well-known Minister Zbogar has been informed, they say that it has never been on the agenda, never any question raised in this regard, because of course we should take action in this case. The government has never considered this; the National Security Council has not considered this, except that there would be a broader consultation of any coordination of parliamentary parties. The National Assembly did not consider this. Interestingly, it used to say there, I think the report also says that the entire political summit was informed. That's not true. The president of the National Assembly was released. I think it was Pavel Gantar at the time. Apparently, he wasn't trusted enough. Some information that goes by nature alone if you look at the classification and the number, if it goes to the Prime Minister and the State, goes to the President of Parliament, because it is another function in the country under the Constitution. This is where Mr. Gantar was released. The information was limited to a circle that was probably pre-briefed in some way. The Commission, which supervises the Owl and the Police in the National Assembly, was not informed of this or informed of it by not being informed of a similar report because it said that Owl was also engaged in a proliferation because there was no number or name of the bank, nothing; nothing could be found from that. Tell me who in this country has the power to ensure such a state; to first wash a billion, then not to investigate it, and in the third stage, that all those involved are rewarded, one way or another. I hope it's time tomorrow to take a look at where these people who were directly involved here are. As my colleague Logar said, at least a hundred people knew about these things, the round number; but it didn't work out. At the beginning of 2012, our government took place, there were handovers, no one said anything. All these bodies continued to be operated by people who had previously done so, no one said anything, no one informed anyone about anything, and the conspiracy of silence was complete. This cannot be resolved by replacing the government in elections, because this obviously does not prevent it because it is deeper because it is deeper. It is simply that a part of the country has been kidnapped by the Mafia and that they can obviously do so. Since this came to the public, I have been talking to some abroad who have been asking what is going on; to some ambassadors who are monitoring it here. The first reaction was that they didn't believe it was possible. If you Google a little, you'll find that there were other cases of money laundering for Iran at the time of the sanctions, but it was a million, two, three, in some Latvian bank it was 15 million; it was no place for 100 million or a billion. And that at the bank where this money launderer represents the biggest customer. Two years, the second bypass firm or the third largest or fourth largest. It's amazing. However, it will not end in this hall, not only at our institutions. One of the countries where the most remittance went, as I was told by their embassy, is now seriously studying. 100 million went to this European country through the New Ljubljana Bank, thousands of accounts of the Iranian Agency and to purchase these materials. This was a behaviour that was not only threatened by our national security, but by the national security of virtually all our partners in the European Union and in relation to NATO. The competent institutions in Slovenia knew about this in time, and even after the pressure from abroad was said to have started to investigate it, these transactions continued formally; until the end of 2010. I think that until the last December, even after the Bank of Slovenia was forced to ban it. Let's see some dates that are very interesting. The Iranians opened this account with the NLB a few days after the 2008 elections by the Pahor government and when Mr Križanič and his adviser, Drago Isajlović, arrived at the finance ministry. That's when it started and then it ran until the end of 2010. The Director of the Owl Mr Rupnik was replaced as soon as it became clear that the pressure from abroad was growing and foreign services were interested. At that time, the then President of the Government, Mr Pahor, called him and said: "The pressures are great, I have to replace you." Now we know what those pressures were and where they came from. By then, Owl’s efforts to do so were serious, but there was no cooperation from other authorities. Then Owl was under control. If we look at the dates when things went under the carpet, so that this has moved among the current things or things that are probably not finished, there must be some mistake here; and when this somehow cleared up, only then did the party really get out of that coalition and it was clear that it was over with that government. This is not just a few employees of the New Ljubljana Bank, nor are these administrations that formally approved it. It's about regulators, it's about Banka Slovenije, who's been involved; it's about that composition. This is the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering, which has been involved in this matter. The Commission has done nothing to prevent corruption, which has been notified. I think the current leadership has reported that there is no record of this. I was once on this committee and I saw that for one mayor from the Slovenian Mountains, they have 6 files due to four travel tasks; for a billion nothing. And Mr. Stare was the head of the investigation there. And of course it's the police. There's, like, a part of the initial inflammation thing that's covered up, and it's closed. In record time, they found that it was not a crime, without even questioning anyone, investigating anything, doing housework and so on. When the matter broke out in Parliament – some media reported it, but the media did not report it as national, at least not as much as in any normal problem – there was a lot going on in the halls of this Parliament, we saw some faces that appear when something needs to be cleaned. But the thing is obviously so shocking and the facts are so clear that at this stage it was impossible to do so. Then it came up with this idea to set up another commission of inquiry for the same thing. For a long time, I didn't understand what that meant. Today, however, the president of this commission of inquiry finally said this at the beginning of his performance. He said that – in this debate we have heard some very determined arguments that are not on the ground, because the investigation is not yet completed, as it will be further explored. If we vote on these conclusions, it will be published on page 7 or 26 minutes of the Journal, and then it will be reported how this is essentially investigated. And those who seek excuses in these institutions who will have to investigate this will say that it is still under investigation. This will answer the question of where the measures are. It will happen, I'm afraid, just as it did with the mid-term report on the Factor Bank, which was very good; all honour to the Commission. Did any of the defendants at that time experience any surprise in terms of what kind of investigation, sanctions, charges, charges? I don't know, maybe; but it went away. But certainly not the ones who are most responsible for this. Earlier, colleagues Shircelj and colleague Horvat had raised a key issue, and they did not sit down for all of us here and for those of us who should sit in those chairs. And the question is, where are hundreds of millions of commissions? We heard on television from a left-wing expert on these issues, who said that commissions here are 30 to 50 percent. My friend Horvat said 60%. That's 300 or 500 million euros. Not all the media in Slovenia are worth that much, but half of Central Europe could be added to it. Most ministries of the Slovenian Government do not have such a budget. It's a lot of money. The one who has this money or who has this money can give one vote that is sufficient to win the elections a higher sum than you can put on one candidate for the election campaign. Some of you were talking about some bonds and funds, Luxembourg and so on. I think that's very likely. I did not believe that I would ever agree with what my colleague Weber would say, but I agree with one thing he said earlier. Suddenly, some funds from South Africa, with millions, with investments worth 80, 100 million. Where did they come from all of a sudden?Oh, my God! South Africa. I don't know if anyone in South Africa knows exactly where Slovenia is. It must have some Slovenian roots or connections. Yeah, these are things that a serious state would seriously explore. But since most of the media or the media that they consider national does not report it, I think that's also the answer to where part of this money ends. In this silence. Or what this silence guarantees. For hundreds of millions of euros, state strikes are also carried out in some countries, hiring the best paid killers for anything. This is serious stuff. But the people who carried it out directly doubt that one of them was in charge of giving orders. [[…]] I doubt that Mr Plaussteiner, Mr Funk, Mr Furlan, Marko Kranjec and all others who were directly involved here have the power to organise this to prevent the investigation and then to influence that the people who did this are rewarded. There's got to be someone else. Or there must be another circle; and this is a circle that practically decides in Slovenia. It is not up to us to decide, it is not up to you who have the majority; I doubt that you would vote on such a thing. I also doubt that the Members who were then sitting in the Pahor government coalition would vote in this way. There had to be someone in the back who organized these things past the official institutions, past the legitimate institutions. I'm not going to say that one owns the whole country, but it has a huge influence, which is illegal, which is Mafia. The following weeks will show very clearly whether this mafia spell in Slovenia has already yielded to the extent that these dominoes will begin to collapse; or whether nothing will just happen. Or will it be said and written: This is still being investigated, this is a parliamentary commission. The people who did this operationally at the time are now being led by the institutions that will investigate this. Over the next few weeks, it will be clear — not you who are sitting here — whether the government that has these instruments in hand is ready to do something to make this clear. We'll see if there's gonna be an investigation or someone's going to be locked up or someone's going to step down. The first step then, if this report is to be voted out, should be that people who are in responsible government positions and who are directly caught up in this work, abandoning their duties, concealing crime, allowing crime, resign. If no one resigns, forget the hope that someone will investigate it. And forget that this mafia spell broke in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u224	Thank you so much for saying that. There won't be a lot of opportunities. When we consider some interpretation of the poor minister, the whole government sits here. Today there are three state officials, no Prime Minister of the Government who is officially absent. If the National Assembly wanted to take this subject seriously, it would ensure the participation of the President of the Government. We have two vice-presidents or vice-presidents of the government, one at a picnic in Tržič, the other unknown where. I think that's one of the problems with how it approached this topic. When we or when you were in this National Assembly, for example, the values with which you are pursuing work in black were guaranteed the participation of the Minister. When you were defending the transporters, where they were taking some stupid action again, the minister was sitting here. When we have this report in front of us today, there's no one in office. He's not Minister Klemenčič. We can't ask him if he's already ordered any control over the prosecution's work when he filed a complaint with the D.A. So far, five years after he left KPK, nothing happened and we can't even ask him if he even asked if anything had happened. That's one of the problems. However, I must say that I am very concerned that you have also put into the legislative process a law on systematic investigations of crime of great importance. That's where you wrote who's supposed to be investigating this. Among them, former members of the KPK Senate, who did nothing; former member of the Bank of Slovenia Council, who did nothing. And these are the non-systemic measures by which this coalition, this government, is trying to trim the parliamentary investigation, take that power away from it and transfer it to some government part. The coordinator of all of this would be the Minister of Justice. This is Mr. Klemenčič again. In short, all things go in this direction that cannot and must not do anything in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u225	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the debate, in which we will give the floor to a representative of the Government and a proposalr. Here you are, Secretary of State, Mr. Boštjan Šefic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u226	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! Since I have only a few seconds at my disposal, allow me to say two things telegraphly. At the Ministry of the Interior, this situation, which we are discussing today, we are looking very closely at, of course, within our modest powers, as we have repeatedly pointed out. However, we will determine exactly what was going on, whether everything was done, what should then be done, who, what, and how he or she did his or her work. On this basis, the Minister will also take appropriate measures, guidance that the matter would not be repeated if anything went wrong. And secondly, we have said, the police are now very closely investigating this matter. I believe she'll look into the whole thing, too. And thirdly, I would just like to deny that the accident of this unfortunate criminalist has been investigated and has also been found; therefore these insinuations are not appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Dr. Ange Logar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u228	Thank you very much. I am pleased at the express agreement of all the parliamentary groups, minus one, on the report of the investigative commission. I can tell you that a lot of work has been done. I also thank the other members of the commission of inquiry. I hope that this consensus will "stand still" until Tuesday when we vote on this report. Tomorrow, I will present some of the details of the secret part of the report in the closed work of the time I have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-21-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u229	Thank you very much. I am adjourning the debate, which will continue tomorrow, September 22nd, at 10 a.m. in closed session, namely the joint debate on the Additional Interim Report and on II. Additional interim report and the key findings set out in both documents, as part of the remainder of the meeting. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to remove from the Chamber everything you have on the bench so that the competent services of the assembly can carry out whatever is necessary to carry out the closed part of the meeting. Members and Members of Parliament shall be informed at the same time that, at the beginning of the meeting tomorrow, the entrance to the Chamber will be possible only when passing through the detection door. The entrance will be supervised by the National Assembly Protection Unit and will not be allowed to enter electronic devices, such as mobile phones, computers, voicephones, cameras and the like. I also ask that you have a Member card for the necessary identification at the time of entry into the Chamber with you. I hereby terminate this agenda item, as well as the 33rd meeting of the National Assembly, to be resumed tomorrow, September 22nd, at 10 a.m. Good night!
