ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm starting with the 30th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Violeta Tomić, Mrs Andreja Potočnik from 16.30 p.m. Tanja Zink by 12 p.m., Mrs. Irena Grošelj Kosnik from 2 p.m. to 2 p.m., Dr. Franz Runk, mag. Alexander Kavčič, mag. Matthew Tonin, Mr. Urosh Prikl, mag. Marko Pogačnik, Mr Jožef Horvat, Mr Franc Laj, Mr Danilo Ranc from 16:00 on, Mr Igor Zorčič from 13:00 on, Mr Franz Breznik, Dr László Göncz from 11:00 on, Dr Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, Mr Ivan Škodnik from 16:00 on and Matjaž Hanžek from 12:00 on. I say hello to everyone who's here! We continue with the end of the first item of the agenda, these are questions from Members and Members. Under this item, ministers and ministers will answer questions from the Members. The order of business shall be laid down in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. On this point today they apologized: Minister of the Interior Mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar; Minister without a department responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion, Mrs Alenka Smerkolj and Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič. In accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we turn to the question raised at the 28th meeting of the National Assembly. Minister of the Interior, Mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar should answer the question of mags. Branka Grims is absent for health reasons in connection with police action in the event of the flags of other countries or former countries or provinces being lifted. I'd ask the MP, but we'll ask him orally if [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, he'll get a written answer if he doesn't require it until the next session. We are moving on to questions of Members and Members. Mrs Jelka Godec will ask the Minister of Health Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc and Minister of Public Administration Boris Koprivnikar. Here you go, Mrs. Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u2	Thank you. My question concerns the general public procurement in health, which the Minister refers to as one of the measures to prevent corruption in health care and to reduce overpayments of material in health. At the same time, at various meetings and in public, he speaks of how much he was saved by common procurement. However, because I have already asked a written question and received an answer in March, from which it is clear that none of the general public procurements in health have been completed so far. Let's say a general public order for gloves, the deadline for the submission of tenders was 4 July 2016 and still no public contract has been awarded. We also have, for example, the purchase of diapers, where the Minister also explains how the invitation to tender was successful, the deadline for receiving tenders was 4 July 2016 and the contract has not yet been awarded. What Is the Bible’s Word? 9. 2015 was the deadline for the submission of tenders and the contract is still pending; for the purchase of needles also, on 7 July 2016, the contract is still pending. Then we also have catheters where the same story is. I want to know: Why do these delays, the annual ones, occur for more than a year? Is this because of the Ministry of Health, which is preparing professional criteria for public tendering, or because of the Ministry of Public Administration? Are the reasons that public procurement has not yet been placed elsewhere? What common public procurements are currently under way at the Ministry of Health for the purchase of health material? What are those common public procurements that are at what stage, how long do certain phases take place, and from the beginning to the publication on the portal? I'd like you to give me this information, how far the current common public contracts are and what they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Ms Marija Milojka Kolar Celarc will answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u4	Well welcomed, Mr Vice President and honourable Members! Dear Mrs Jelka Godec, thank you for the question. Managing the procurement of medical equipment and the purchase of medicines and medical devices is one of the key priorities of the Ministry of Health and the government as a whole, which has committed zero tolerance to corruption. We also carry out all the planned measures consistently. For the purposes of all ten currently operating emergency centres funded by the European Union, the Ministry of Health has, at the very beginning of its mandate, carried out a joint public contract by establishing technical standards for the most expensive equipment for 7 emergency centres, where we have saved more than 3 million and 33% of the total value for the equipment of these centres since the initial assessment. In preparation, there is a general public contract for the purchase of CT devices for all hospitals where an update of that equipment is necessary. In this case, too, the actual needs of hospitals will be taken into account, the technical standards of this equipment have been established and therefore we expect positive financial effects here too. However, together with the Ministry of Public Administration, in 2015 we started to implement projects of joint public procurement of medicines and medical devices. I will list below which technical devices these common public procurements are covered and at what stage they are. However, colleague Boris will continue to comment on the appeal, audit and other procedural arrangements. The first general public contract for medicinal products, for 900 units, is completed. A negotiated procedure will be carried out before the award of the contract. For 30 sets we received four audit requests, therefore pre-audit procedures are under way, all in accordance with the applicable legislation in Slovenia. The decision will be taken within the time limits of marriage. A common public order of diapers, gloves and needles, as you mentioned in the question. Needles – the tendering phase is under way, according to the law, certain tenderers will be invited to complete tenders. The diapers – based on the calls to the tenderers, we have received admissible additions to the tenders which will be reviewed in the following week. By the end of May, a decision will be taken on the selection of the most favourable bidder for individual sets. Gloves – the procurement procedure is completed, the award decision is foreseen for 18. 5. 2017, when it became legal. This is followed by the conclusion of a comprehensive agreement and individual framework agreements. Furthermore, the general public procurement of respiratory therapy material – technical and general professional requirements are being prepared, the market and prices are being pre-screened; public procurement will be published in June 2017. The common procurement of catheters – the final additions to the tenders submitted by the tenderers are still under review. The choice of the most favourable tender will be decided by the end of this month. Fifth, general public procurement, purchase of infusion and transfusion systems. The Ministry of Public Administration has already received information from hospitals on the necessary quantities of individual articles. The documentation for the implementation of the procurement procedure shall be in the final stage of preparation. Publication of the contract by the end of this month. Sixth general public procurement of materials for intervention cardiology. The technical specifications for the order of the vascular resistors are ready. In the final phase of preparation, the technical specifications are still available for functional morphology. This is a material for machines for functional and imaging diagnostics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Mrs. Jelka Godec, will you request a further reply? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u6	Madam Secretary, I'm interested in: Why does the invitation to tender last one year? One year! I also asked you this: How long does it take for a stage to prepare, say, professional criteria? How many times does the Ministry bring these people together to prepare professional criteria? So why are your hands so long? I understand when the audit takes place and so on, that's another matter; but that the public order is published at all. How long does it take the ministry to publish a public order — from the time it begins, when it first convenes, to the publication of a public invitation to tender? And here's another question I have with regard to common public procurement: Who and how does the market and prices review? In one statement, you said that joint public procurement would bring savings, but prices will be even higher in certain segments than in hospitals so far; or in public contracts held by hospitals. That's what I think you said about drugs. How long has it been since it is said that a public invitation to tender or that you will be in a public contract until the contract is made public? Who reviews the market and prices for any material? In what way? So why for a year, I am not talking now about when the invitation to tender has already been issued and there are revisions; I understand, then things can get carried away. What do you think is causing these audits – is the legislation bad or are the ministries not doing well? My question, once again: Why so long? I want to know how the hospitals are getting in between. Probably through his anexes?Oh, my God! At what cost? Where's the savings?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mrs. Jelka Godec, can we give the floor to Mr. Koprivnikar or Mrs. Kolar Celarc?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u8	I demand an answer from the Minister, because it is a professional work, because there, to prepare, it is a professional part; then that part, when technically done, is Mr Koprivnikar. He can give him a minute to answer, but how much does the Ministry of Public Administration need to make technical progress.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u9	Minister Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u10	As I have already said in the introduction, the Ministry of Public Administration is responsible for the management of the common procurement procedures, so I will continue to allow this part of the response; and why such delays are mainly delays due to complaints and audit procedures. Let me answer you in this part. There were no technical, professional, medical standards available in Slovenia until my term of office. Nowhere, for no material, for nothing. The law is even so made and written that virtually every doctor can decide on his own without the criteria, the material, and the standards that will be applied. That is why at the beginning of the mandate we went to set up. But you need to know that this is about ten or more thousand items. Only the register of these purchase prices of materials is over 90,000; the one we have managed to make and published on the website of the Health Association. You know, in preparing from a medical professional point of view, this is a very demanding business. Other countries have been doing this for five or more years; you are practically asking us to do so within one or two months. We work very professionally, intensively this is done by doctors in the working groups and they just take the time and check that these standards, which will be valid for a while, are done professionally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Minister Boris Koprivnikar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u12	Thank you. A brief look at these health reports on my part. As regards the verification of mandatory conditions, including the market. Let me say that with the amended legislation, we have introduced mandatory verification of conditions and that we record 23,000 inquiries on 63 thousand sources, thereby strengthening the fact that it is mandatory for each order to check what are the market conditions and what is the fulfilment of these specific conditions. We are not only publishing public contracts on the public procurement portal, but also newly binding contracts that are actually concluded with contracting authorities, which was also a source of many problems. We have published the Statist application where you can review all of this and also for the health field publication in the catalogue. However, let me say that we have 4% of the audit requests and we have 150% of the audit requests on health orders. In view of the estimated savings in half of the sums committed for approximately €7 million in general, given the cost we are paying today, I sometimes make a joke that we have 7 million reasons for many audits and delaying procedures. Difficult, but we're getting close to the end and the orders are closing.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mrs. Jelka Godec, will you make a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u14	Yes, I will make a procedural proposal because the Minister and the Minister have not answered my specific question. I asked the secretary how long this expertise lasted, and she didn't answer me. She said I'm demanding that this be settled within three, four months. I didn't say that. I asked you how long this procedure took, how many times do you get experts to do it? You excuse yourself that each doctor can determine what material and what standard he will use. Then why don't you try to fix it? Now, you've listed about five problems that you have so you can't do joint public procurement, but you didn't do it. Nor at the Ministry of Public Administration; I understood that we have such procedures so that all these audits can be carried out and I do not know what is going on. Madam Minister, I expected a concrete answer from you today, why so long procedures. The Department of Health has the expertise and then it carries out a technical exercise by the Ministry of Public Administration. And you're saying that in other countries they've been doing this for five years. You are terribly capable, you said yourself that you want to do this as soon as possible; then let these things be corrected. I would suggest here that a public debate be held on how the Ministry of Health implements joint public procurement with the Ministry of Public Administration. The Minister has consistently pointed out that so many and so many millions have been saved on common public contracts, of course admits that not through this common public procurement, but through the emergency centres; and deceives the public with information that it has been saved on common public contracts that have not yet been awarded and even in audits. The government, however, does absolutely nothing in the legislative or other field in order to make legislation in such a way that such audits do not occur; nor does it itself carry out a joint public contract in a way that would be faster. This is how we are paying today in the field of health, we still have higher prices in common public procurement, and I still haven't received an answer today as to how market research is being done in ministries. How do you check the prices? Is it checked only from the hospital to the hospital or is the European market viewed? I would suggest that this debate on joint public procurement or the Public Procurement Act should finally be held to see whether the law is bad or whether it is incompetent people who do public procurement; if so, also common public procurement in ministries. According to my information, people are called in, meetings are cancelled, and I don't know what's going on before it comes to making professional criteria. I'm not talking about technical matters right now, but I'm talking about professional criteria. Therefore, it would be good to have a debate, to hear concrete answers and also proposals from the Government, which would be to make these joint public procurements transparent, to lower prices, to make market research and to shorten procedures. It will be necessary to shorten procedures. My proposal is to hold a public debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mrs Jelka Godec, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Tuesday, 30 May, in the framework of the votes. Mr Luka Mesec will ask the Minister of Justice a question. Goran Klemenčich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, chairman. Mr. Secretary, I'm going to ask you a question about tax evasion. In the last few weeks, the whole of Slovenia has had the opportunity to meet a doctor of tax evasion, as the media named Roca Snezic, who came to public television to tell me how he transferred his assets or how he founded a company in Bosnia and Herzegovina with hidden property. These companies collected his assets in Slovenia, and so he avoided all the country's legal ties and, according to him, destroyed his tax debt to that country, which amounted to more than 100,000 euros. If memory doesn't fool me, he owes the country even about 800,000 euros. He was on TV to present his business model and to attract others facing the same problem, similar practices. I think it is quite urgent now that the state reacts and that these people are prevented from playing the law. A week after the opening performance of Rok Snezič, a representative of Furs, the Board of Directors of bankruptcy and the Ministry of Justice have already performed. There are two problems at international level. One thing is that where we have international agreements with countries already concluded, bankruptcy managers still have very serious difficulties in obtaining data on the property of our citizens abroad. On the other hand, such as the case of Snezič's Bosnia, we have the problem that there is obviously no State agreement on the sharing of property data. This is the reason why such practices as those described there may occur, that, say, very wealthy persons who go into personal bankruptcy, after a few years of nullity due to the fact that in the middle of the proceedings they have simply transferred everything abroad. That's why I'm interested, Mr. Minister, I've also sent you these questions: Have you dealt with this issue at the Ministry so far, and what solutions do you propose? Do you have a list of countries with which Slovenia does not have agreements on data exchange and a list of agreements that prevent the exchange of information on property between tax authorities and bankruptcy managers? Are you preparing solutions to prevent embezzlement of business ownership and practices? Do you have information on the number of cases where individuals have huge assets before the start of personal bankruptcy, and then this property magically disappears? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mag. Goran Klemenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u18	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Honourable Member Luka Mesec, Member of Parliament and Members of Parliament! First of all, I would like to say that I am deeply convinced or want to believe that the authorities of detection and prosecution or the tax authorities in the case of your doctor of tax evasion have not yet said the last word. Also because of legislation that has already been amended in this mandate. Personal bankruptcy as one of the important institutes that people who for such and other reasons get into financial difficulties, sometimes without their own fault, that new possibility, was introduced into Slovenia's legal order almost nine years ago. Since then, legislation in this area has not changed at all until 2015, when my ministry and this government have also given priority to restricting the possibility of abuse of personal bankruptcy. Therefore, in 2015 a new law was drawn up in this field and in March 2016 it was also adopted in this National Assembly. In this sense, the case of Snowflakes would be significantly more difficult, in its own words, if it had happened at that time. What were the new ones, or measures, that we had already taken at the Ministry and at the National Assembly? We have explicitly defined the abuse of the right to discharge, so that only an honest and well-known bankruptcy debtor may be entitled to discharge; one who has been fairly engaged in legal proceedings in the past five years and who cooperates with the court and the administrator during personal bankruptcy. As in the case of a doctor of tax evasion, we know. The time limit for lodging an objection to the waiver of an obligation has been extended. The period of supremacy of the injurious actions of the bankruptcy debtor has been extended. In order to prevent the debtor from hiding property, the deadline for lodging an action for the annulment of the waivers of obligations has been extended. Importantly, the institute of bankruptcy proceedings on later assets has been renovated, where the new creditors are not even tied to deadlines. It is sufficient to find later the assets that the debtor has hidden from this. In other words, there is no obsolescence in this respect in the bankruptcy procedure at all. Someone will have to hide their assets for the rest of their lives if they want to avoid this obligation. As it is said, these are the measures taken by the Ministry and taken in this National Assembly. I regret that the United Left has not voted in favour of this law. For other reasons, but she did not vote in favour of this law; we went to look at the list. However, this law, as it is said, has made it important and largely impossible — or you can never prevent it — but it has limited the possibility of abuse. Next. As you yourself have found, legislation in the Slovenian territory, legislation within our jurisdiction has all the elements that enable the successful search for assets and the transmission of data; of course, only by institutions operating in the Republic of Slovenia. We have problems abroad. The search for property abroad does not depend on the law of the Republic of Slovenia, but on the law of the country where the property is and on the concluded international treaties. I'll come back to that, maybe in the second part of the answer. Then the next thing. Already in December 2014 – and since I have looked here, the United Left has been very supportive of these changes – the Ministry of Justice and the Government brought before this National Assembly a new Law on the Court Registry, which has allowed for a much more transparent search and access to data on natural persons who have, say, octopuses of businesses. The Court Register Act was then amended and is in force. We have obtained information from Apes that, for example, in 2016 alone, 57 000 searches have been made for such persons on the basis of this new provision; we believe that it has also contributed partly to enhanced legal certainty and enhanced security in legal traffic and has partly limited such abuses. We are preparing additional measures in this area, and I think that the Law on the Court Register will be recast at the government meeting next week. Since I'm running out of time, I believe you'll ask a question, and I'll proceed with the answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u19	Mr. Moon, will you request a supplement to your answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u20	Thank you. Of course, we have always supported these solutions that you have listed, always supported, strongly supported. However, we did not support that law mentioned earlier because of other provisions that seemed controversial in it; but that was not the reason. I'd like to ask you for an answer to those questions I've never had before: Do you have information on how many such cases there are where someone has a lot of property before personal bankruptcy, and then this property magically disappears? Do you have a list of countries with which Slovenia does not have agreements on the exchange of information on citizens' property? Do you have a list of countries with which we have such agreements, but do we have problems exchanging tax data? This is the bankruptcy manager who was the president of the Chamber of Fusion Managers, who was present in the Tarč show, explicitly cited as a key reason or a key obstacle to the recovery of tax debtors, such as Roz Sněžič, who simply hid the property abroad. I'd like to ask you if you can answer any more of these questions. Or maybe a personal call. Next time, please give in such cases as this Target last time, better prepare the people who come to represent the country. If we allow people there to see a doctor of tax evasion Roznižič play all five representatives of the country who were present on the other hand, I think the country as an institution gives a very bad sign to its citizens and challenges their trust.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u21	Mag. Goran Klemenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u22	Thank you very much. All the questions you have asked me are questions that the Ministry of Finance can truthfully answer because they are responsible for tax matters. We've been in touch with them, or else we're in touch with them. We agreed because we couldn't get that information in a short time. Data on who we have concluded agreements with, yes. Where there are problems, however, is the information that requires that we do not mention any countries needlessly, a slightly more thoughtful answer. We are agreed and I commit here, as I have already done in the past to other Members, and I have also fulfilled this by providing you with a written reply in this regard, together with the Ministry of Finance. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Dr Dragan Matić will ask Minister of Culture Anton Persak. Here you go, Mr. Matić.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u24	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues! If, in the previous parliamentary question, a speech on hidden ownership shares or illicit property, in certain corporations, this is now similar to my question in the field of media. In the media, I have observed that the new and at the same time the largest and most important owners of Novatv24.si have deliberately overreached the outdated Slovenian media legislation, specifically the Media Act, which provides for concentration restrictions in Article 58 in a way that anyone wishing to obtain more than 20% of the ownership or management share or share of voting rights in the property of the media issuer must obtain prior consent from the Ministry of Culture for the current conclusion of the legal business. These provisions also apply to foreign legal and natural persons, irrespective of their country of residence or permanent residence. The three Hungarian consent companies did not have to be asked for consent because each of them owns only 15% of Novatv24.si and has no formal ownership. For the whole matter, it is also a mistake that the ownership of this company has been hazy since the very beginning. So far, it has been unclear whose hands accounted for about 80% of the ownership of a television company with one of the major achievements. However, following the payment of additional capital by the three Hungarian media companies, it is still unknown who owns about 40% of the remaining shares. This information cannot be found either in the media or in the Official Journal or elsewhere. In this regard, I am interested in: Are you planning to update media legislation that will define the concentration limit more strictly and will oblige media publishers to publish in the Official Journal all natural or legal persons with ownership and not only those whose share is above 5%, because otherwise we can have straw owners who have less than 5% and the thing is non-transparent? The second dispute is Media24. They own radio stations, television stations, and general news newspapers and magazines. All these combinations are explicitly prohibited under the current Media Act. The Council24 is therefore in public breach of Articles 56, 58 and 59 of this Media Act. I want to know: How could this breach have occurred, or how did the Ministry of Culture put this combination into the media? What do you intend to do to eliminate these illegalities because you have been warned on several occasions? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Anton Pershak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u26	Dear Mr. Matić. With regard to ownership in Nova24tv.si, d.d., we explain in the introduction that the current provisions of the Media Law do not provide for the publication in the press release and in the Official Journal of all data on ownership in the media, but only of persons with a minimum of 5 % ownership or management share or share of voting rights in the property of the issuer of the general informational printed journal and the weekly and the radio or television programme. Any changes to media data relating to ownership shall be communicated by the issuer to the Ministry within 15 days of the date of the change. The publisher Nova24tv.si, d.d., has not been informed by the Ministry on any change in ownership data at the time of entry into the media's notice that Mrs Klavdija Snezič has a 19.96% share. With regard to the acquisition of a share in a television broadcaster, the Media Act requires prior agreement of the Ministry only in cases where more than 20 % of the ownership or management share or share of voting rights is involved. In the present case, the Ministry has not received any applications for prior consent to obtain more than 20% of the ownership or management share or share of voting rights in the property of the media. With regard to the question of updating media legislation that would tighter limit concentration restrictions and oblige publishers to publish in the Official Journal all natural or legal persons with ownership and not only those whose share is more than 5%, we are also responsible for updating the provisions on concentration restrictions when preparing the new media law, as we are also finding that the provisions in force do not meet the objectives of protecting media plurality and diversity. In particular, due to rapid technological changes in the media field where the 2001 rigid provisions fail to effectively follow. The first step towards improving regulation is certainly to ensure the full transparency of media ownership data, which will be regulated in particular within the framework of the provisions on media coverage. Part of the answer, referring to a somewhat vague question that says "the other dispute is Media24 – owned by radio stations, TV stations and general news and magazines, all of these combinations are explicitly prohibited under the applicable media law. The Council24 therefore publicly violates Articles 65, 58 and 59 of this Act." They end by quoting questions. With regard to these alleged violations in Novatv24.si, the Inspectorate was never informed or recorded any reports in this regard. The Inspectorate received a complaint in connection with a violation of Article 56 of the Law, which relates, as you say, to allegedly controversial restrictions on ownership in Media24. In this regard, the Inspectorate notes that the matter is not disputed, since, as already stated, the Media Group is not a issuer of the general information log and therefore the restrictions laid down in Article 56 of the Law do not apply to that group. As a result, no inspection procedure was introduced. According to the media and the World Wide Web, the media24 includes the following media: printed News – The World24. In short, they issue one print medium or two, which is not generally informational by definition and that in the light of the provisions of the law there is simply no conflict of this type, which is prohibited by law. I can also list these conflicts below. In fact, we may also be able to answer about playing. But in principle there is no combination based on the law [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Dr. Dragan Matić is requesting a supplement to the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u28	Thank you for your answer. It is especially gratifying that you are advocating that the new Media Law will be better with regard to this transparency and that it will no longer be possible to have straw owners who will be below 5%, because then, theoretically, there can be a few hundred bums and everyone has a small share, but this is of course an act of law. As far as your reply regarding Media24 is concerned, you have indicated that the inspectorate has found that this is not disputed because the news is not a general information medium. If the news is not a general information medium, then I would like to know: What exactly is the definition of the general information media or what is the weight of the inspectorate based on? No matter how much we rent this explanation, which I find quite controversial, I am interested in: How, then, does the Inspectorate explain Article 59 of the Media Act, which specifically states that a single publisher can only carry out radio or television activities, unless otherwise regulated by law? Even if we consider the news not to be a general information medium, which I highly doubt, this media house has both a radio station and a television station. I didn't ask why the inspectorate didn't work. My question was how could the Ministry of Culture have ever included these combinations in the media. The official should verify all these ownership links and reject this request by a decision because, in my opinion, no conditions have been issued in accordance with Articles 12 and 13 of the Media Act, so that these combinations can be entered into the media's register at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Pershak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u30	I have already pointed out in the previous part of the response that the provisions are a little rigid and outdated. It is simply a game between ownership and publishing. Someone may own a traitor, but he's not a traitor. On the other hand, he's a publisher. Let's say one medium plays one role, if I may say so, in another. I can read the paragraphs of this Article. Article 1 says: “The publisher of a general and informative printed journal” – we have found that, by definition, these media issued by Media24 do not correspond to the definition of a general and informationable diary –” can also not be a broadcaster or co-founder of a broadcaster’s radio or television programme.” This combination in this case is dismissed due to the foregoing fact that it is not by definition a general and information media. Second paragraph: “A broadcaster or broadcaster may not be a broadcaster or co-author of a universal and informative print media, but may be the owner, but cannot be the publisher in both cases.” Third paragraph: “The issuer of a legal or natural person or group of connected persons referred to in the first and second paragraphs of this Article may hold a maximum of 20 % ownership share... except in cases where this law provides otherwise.” These cases were mentioned earlier. With regard to the future, it is possible that, due to developments in this area, there are online media, which in many cases are actually the transmission of another kind of media – television, radio or print into an online area, and for other reasons the issue of regulation such as today, or change it. There are probably worse consequences if one of the 60 radios has a general information print medium, of course not the only, and an online medium or radio medium, which is one, than that one of the 60 radios has five of those covering the territory of all Slovenia, and is infinitely superior to all others as regards advertising.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mrs Nada Brinovšek will ask the Minister of Health Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u32	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to everyone in the hall! In Slovenia, 10 out of 12 emergency centres currently operate. These emergency centres were mainly built within the mandates of the previous governments. The task of you, Minister, was not only to go to the openings and cut the tapes, but also to ensure their organizational, financial and humane business. It seems to me that whatever you did about these emergency centres – let us remember the champagne emergency centre, what happened when you included yourself in the invitation to tender for the supply of equipment. We also know what is going on with the Ljubljana ER, which should have been completed by March this year, but you announced, as I read last time in the paper, that it will not be until 2020. In 2015 we adopted the Emergency Medical Aid Regulation and at that time we warned you that the profession had not cooperated, that no financial, personnel and organisational plan had been prepared, and we also warned you that there were no paediatric centres involved in this Emergency Medical Regulation. In this regard, I now ask you: How did you save all the four indents I listed? We know that it is the most important thing to fund these emergency centres, because last year hospitals have shown multimillion-dollar losses on this account. Have you already established or prepared a network of pediatric emergency centres, and how have you resolved funding in this regard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Mary Milojka Kolar Celarc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. Once again, everyone, welcome! Thank you also for the question Mrs Brinovšek. It is true, as you mentioned, that in Slovenia there are 10 emergency centres, which have also been built by the European Cohesion Fund. Of course, there are also certain operational difficulties in each initial operation, which are also due to the fact that when these emergency centres were planned, neither the necessary human resources nor the necessary financial resources were planned at the same time. That's why we're solving these problems. Let me say that unfortunately, doctors of emergency medicine specialists are still missing, but the Ministry of Health, in cooperation with the Slovenian Medical Chamber, has adapted the required number of places of specialization for individual specialist areas, including emergency doctors. For the period until 2016, 79 of these cities were sold, of which 17 in 2014, 15 in 2015 and 19 in 2016. As you rightly said, we are also solving the issue of financing these centres along with the problem of sending patients to these emergency centres. It should be said that the flow of patients to emergency centres has increased from 10% to 30%, not only to patients in need of emergency medical care, but also to patients who do not need this help and who could visit their family doctor in a healthcare home. The problem of sending patients to emergency centres was also the reason for the heavy burden of these centres. That is why we have also prepared and adopted amendments to the Law on Patient Rights on 15 May, which will also address part of this problem of travel and visits to emergency centres, together with the Regulation on Maximum Allowable Waiting Periods. With regard to the financial area, however, the Ministry provided the number one annex to the 2015 general agreement for the financing of triage and the adoption of an additional EUR 1.9 million, in the same annex it further provided funding for observation units totalling EUR 5.3 million, i.e. 1.9 plus 5.3 already in 2015. Furthermore, in the 2016 general agreement, we provided an additional 1.5 team for the operation of the emergency ambulance at the Novi Mesto Emergency Centre, which meant an additional EUR 266,000. With an annex to the 2016 general agreement, however, we provided additional UKC Ljubljana funding at the annual level of €2.2 million for the financing of the observation unit and triage, as well as additional funding for the operation of the paediatric 24-hour emergency clinic at Celje General Hospital, EUR 715 000. It also actively works at the Ministry of Labour to renovate the emergency medical funding model in the Republic of Slovenia, which consists of an interdisciplinary team, which includes experts, as well as a team to prepare a methodology for paediatric emergency centres.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mrs. Nada Brinovšek, a request to complete your reply, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u36	Yes, it is true, Minister, that the previous governments, when they went to build emergency centres, did not plan personnel, organisational and financial flows. But you've been in government for three years and you haven't done anything in three years. Saying now to the patient's income that this has increased the work, and kind of in the emergency centers, it's not kind of acceptable to me. From this emergency medical regulation, two more questions would be asked. Look, there's a control center in here. These dispatch centres are expected to start operating at the end of 2016 and in 2017. What's the deal with these dispatch centers now? With regard to Article 8 of this Regulation, I would like to ask you about the time available. It says here that it shall not exceed 15 minutes and shall not exceed one minute of export time. Perhaps you are aware of what happened last week in the National Assembly when an ambulance was called. It was said that it was not available. What is it now with these 15 minutes and the export time one minute? Let me also point out that the saddest part is that they had to wait here in Ljubljana for 30 minutes for urgent medical care to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mrs. Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u38	Thank you, too, for this additional question. The dispatch centre in Maribor is essentially practically upgraded and ready. In the final phase there is a call for computer support, which will be both at the Maribor dispatch centre and at the Ljubljana dispatch centre. Let me say that the activation is expected by the end of this year at the latest, Maribor probably earlier. The training of dispatches for triage and emergency calls is also under way. In fact, we had to redesign part of the DTS projects so that we could place this dispatch centre for Ljubljana in UKC Ljubljana. Everything is going according to plans and commitments and my promise that dispatch centres will operate by the end of this year. However, you need to know that this is a completely new matter, where in the dispatch room at one place on the display we will basically have every second a review and a schedule where individual ambulances in Slovenia are so, so reanimobile with the appropriate team of doctors, medical technicians as well as ordinary ambulances, which will allow shorter access times in conjunction with this article of the Regulation you mentioned. The dispatcher will have the task of activating the nearest appropriate rescue vehicle with the team in view of the call he will receive, namely the condition of the patient to be notified. So that it does not happen as it is today and as you yourself mentioned that rescue vehicles are within the institutions of the healthcare home. In particular, I do not know all the details of this case that you mentioned about the National Assembly, but this is the target response time that can be established when this dispatching centre will operate.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mrs Ludmila Novak will ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Karl Erjavac.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u40	Dear Minister, Minister, President, welcome! In 2001, Italy adopted a safeguard law. Following this safeguard law, it is intended to facilitate the election of one Slovenian to the Italian, Roman Parliament and also one senator. The electoral law is now changing in Italy, but this proposal, which is now in the debate, is being tabled today, for example, by 3 p.m., and will then be discussed at the competent authorities or in Parliament in the coming days, so this law will not again facilitate the election of two Slovenian representatives, either in the Chamber of Parliament or in the Senate. This is how our Slovenians from the Slovenian national community in Italy find out. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary: Have you done anything in this direction to make it easier or more possible to elect Slovenian representatives? What did you do? What information do you have? Will this provision of the protection law finally be fulfilled?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Karl Erjavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u42	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Thank you very much for the question. Good-bye to all of you. As regards the changes in electoral legislation in Italy, you know that this change in electoral legislation has been in preparation for a long time, including constitutional reforms. In this regard, there was a referendum in November, which was successful and did not support constitutional changes. However, electoral Italian legislation is also linked to these constitutional changes, particularly because it wants to abolish the two-house system, the abolition of the Senate. We're in an intermediate period now. For these reasons, you know that Italian Prime Minister Renzi has also resigned and that we can expect next year to have parliamentary elections in Italy. The current law, which is the law of Italicum in 2015, somehow indicated in the first phase that it could fully implement the provisions of the 2001 safeguard law, is Article 26, which provides for a simplified procedure for the representative or representative of the Slovenian national community in Italy to have an easy way to reach the Member State or the senatorial city. After a study by the Slovenian National Community in Italy, it was found that this law, Italicum, is not the best for the Slovenian National Community to fail to implement Article 26 of the Law of Protection, and therefore, as you rightly stated, this law should be supplemented by amendments. Your question is what the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the Minister for Foreign Affairs has done in this regard. Given that this debate is now taking place again in parliamentary bodies, I would like to point out that this is not a matter of government law, but that the government will have a major impact on what the districts will be. The Slovenian National Community in Italy would like to see the constituency in the country of Furlania - the province of Juliana somehow shaped to include as many representatives of members of the Slovenian National Community as possible because it would allow them to reach their representative in the Chamber of Parliament or in the Senate on this path. In this regard, I had a very detailed discussion on the day of Slovenian diplomacy and on the day that, or 25 years ago, we also became a full member of the United Nations, in what way to realize this desire. The agreement was based on the fact that this law is now being kept within Parliament and is in the hands of political parties, that Ambassador Benko will hold talks with all the Presidents of Parliament's parties in Italy. However, I myself have committed myself to having a discussion with the Italian Foreign Minister, particularly on the occasion of the convening of a re-coordination committee of ministers led by both foreign ministers. I've already handed him a letter that I'd like to find an appointment as soon as possible. It is somehow an agreement for this committee to carry out parliamentary holidays. I'm going to give him a very precise picture of all of this. The second opportunity to discuss at the highest level will be in the context of the Berlin process for a conference on the Western Balkans, which will be held in Trieste on 12 July. There will also be Prime Minister Mr Gentiloni, former Foreign Minister, as well as my good friend, acquaintance, colleague, and I will also point out that the provisions of Article 26 of the Law on Facilitating the Procedure for the Slovenian National Community to have its representative in the Chamber of Parliament or in the Senate should be implemented as best possible. I can say we're following up on this whole thing. [[Excluding microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u43	Mrs. Ludmila Novak, request for a reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u44	While the shipping nationalities community and the German nationalities community in South Tyrol are somehow satisfied with the new bill proposal, Slovenians believe that, even after these facilitations, the election of the Slovenian representative will not be possible either in the Chamber of Parliament or in the Senate. The Slovenians now have one senator, Tamara Blažina, who was elected for the sake of the goodwill of the democratic party, i.e. the Italian party, not at the will of the Slovenians, who would elect a representative and be elected to the Senate. The Italian party, the Democratic Party has chosen someone, given him an elective seat and was elected senator. Therefore, Slovenians want and expect the Slovenian Government to do its utmost in the Italian authorities, so that in fact in this electoral law it would be such that it would also be a real opportunity for election. We know that in the Slovenian Parliament we have a Member representing the Italian Nationality Community in Slovenia, on the basis of the 1991 census, 2959 persons declared to belong to the Italian Nationality Community and 2,258 persons in 2002. While we know that the Slovenians in Italy, of course, do not know the exact number, but they are talking about 20 to 30, even 40 thousand. We do not know exactly, so we believe that this would belong to the Slovenes, as provided by the law of protection. So please, Minister, that the Slovenian government [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Karl Erjavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Make sure we do everything we can. You yourself have found that Article 26 of the Law of Protection provides for a facilitated procedure and a way to get to this seat. However, there is no legal basis for Italian legislation for the Slovenian national community to have a guaranteed seat. Such a guarantee is guaranteed by the French, Austrian, or German national minority in Italy, on the basis of an international agreement. If the Slovenians ever wanted to have this guaranteed seat, an appropriate international agreement should be concluded. We also discussed this with the Slovenian National Community in Italy. It will likely be necessary to think in this direction in the future. As regards the representative of the Slovenian National Community. You got it right, they always had it, but on the basis of an agreement with one of the political parties. So we can say that all the time after World War II, the Slovenian National Community has always had its representative in the Chamber of Parliament, especially because this is the way they agreed and also because of the protection law after 2001. Therefore, our tendency is to allow the constituency to be directly elected by the Slovenian representative to the Italian Parliament. It is therefore very important how the government will design those districts if the procedure goes in this direction. That is why it will be very important for me to talk to the Prime Minister of Italy, Mr Gentiloni. We hope that the solution will be such that the Slovenian national community will still have its representative in the future. Whether this will be as it is now, with the help of one of the major parliamentary parties, or on the basis of the district, we will see this through the procedure. However, we will not in any way agree that the electoral law, which would be supplemented and re-adopted, would prevent or prevent a representative of the Slovenian national community from having a representative in Rome. But here you can believe that we're just going to do whatever it takes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Here you are, Mrs. Ludmila Novak, a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u48	Otherwise, I will not propose a special debate in Parliament because I have already proposed an extraordinary meeting to be held on Monday, and I hope that you will also be able to participate in this session of the Commission for Slovenians in place and around the world and once again confirm that you will truly take part in it, because I will also assess your work as Foreign Minister after how you will be successful at this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u49	Thank you very much, Mrs. Ludmila Novak. That was the abuse of this third phase. Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Dr. Anji Kopač Dark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u50	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. All in attendance, all in attendance! Dear Madam Secretary! In March this year, I addressed to the Government a similar written question to which I received a lack of response. I asked the government about a recipe that allowed people with no assets to survive with a monthly amount of €292.56. This is supposed to be the minimum amount that a single person can spend a month with, according to your Minister's Department. He pays rent for the apartment, electricity, water, garbage, heating, supplementary health insurance premium, buys food, medicines, transport, education and the like. Because in my office, citizens come with, for example, 293 euros of monthly income and without any assets that are not eligible for financial social assistance from the State. In response to the question, the question was not answered, and this is how to spend a month of 293 euros. I can't and can't explain this to people who are turning to me as a Member of Parliament. It was also not answered to the question which of the members of the government and the officials and employees of your ministry, who are practicing such a social policy, has so far tried to spend a month with 293 euros. From the government's answer to my question, indirectly, you know that with 293 euros of the month, it is impossible to survive. For years ago, a minimum amount of around EUR 385 has been set, which is actually the current amount that an individual is supposed to spend a month with. Nevertheless, your ministry insists on a maximum amount of EUR 292.56, and there is no justification for sufficient support for survival for people without wealth in severe social distress. By refusing to help, people are led to the worst of poverty, hunger, disease, and possibly even premature death. That's why I want to know: How many people are living in severe poverty because of a low minimum amount of survival and what annual financial resources would be needed to make the minimum amount actually necessary for survival? I also want to know: Do you and when do you intend to approach a change in social policy in such a way as to enable the poorest persons, usually those who are partially disabled and long-term unemployed, to survive with dignity? Thank you in advance for your answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Dr. Anya Kopač Dark, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Your Honor, thank you for asking. The issue of minimum income and the basis for the calculation of monetary social assistance and the protection allowance is an extremely sensitive topic. In particular, it is regrettable to note that the minimum income in 2010 when it was recalculated and raised for more than the previous periods, from 2000 onwards, when it was determined and never harmonised, so that harmonisation was very high. However, it was calculated not only on the basis of a basket of minimum cost of living, but also on the basis of the amount of minimum wage and average wage. In fact, one of the basic rules of social policy not only in Slovenia, but in the world, is that someone who is without income cannot be with these incomes provided to him in the context of the relocation by the social state in a better position than the one on the minimum wage. The amount of EUR 292.56 is considered to be monetary social assistance, which is defined in the law as a short-term benefit, as something that is an intermediate situation and is primarily necessary for the individual, and the essence of social policy is to help him come out of the existing situation. This is why the number of jobs and employment opportunities have a significant impact and, for the first time, we are also implementing social activation, which is aimed primarily at long-term recipients of financial social assistance, where long-term programmes will be 11 months to help people develop both social and employment competences that will bring them closer to the labour market, as this is the only solution in the long term. Nevertheless, you mentioned that some costs must also be paid. In doing so, I would just like to point out that an individual receiving financial social assistance is also entitled to the protection of both health rights under the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds. Therefore, the payment of the contribution to compulsory health insurance and the payment of the difference in the price of services from supplementary health insurance. RTV contributions are also exempt. When it comes to family, children’s allowances, kindergarten subsidies, school meals are also important. Later on, I have a question on the part of your fellow Member or Mr Ferruga, which is quite the opposite. He says what is the difference between those who receive financial social assistance and those who work. I think the calculation is about €380. Regrettably, when we talk about minimum income, it is also related to the situation in the labour market and, above all, the condition of our economy, the minimum and, above all, the average wage. It is essential that transfers provide a means of survival and, on the other hand, must not act in a dissuasive manner to ensure that an individual accepts the job and thus solves his or her situation. All I ask is that you also remember the possibility in the legislation of exceptional financial social assistance, which is intended and can be obtained by an individual with financial social assistance to cover extraordinary events and who cannot work, which means that he is over 65 and 63 years of age or unable to work, and he owns an amount of EUR 476.87, which is already significantly more similar to the minimum wage, taking into account all these transfers which are. However, it is extremely difficult to survive if you have only €292, which is why these social activation programmes are primarily designed to address these pressures. As far as calculation of minimum income is concerned. The Social Security Benefits Act states that this calculation must be made at least every five years in order to determine the new amount of the minimum cost of living. If this exceeds 20% of a certain amount of minimum income, the law obliges us to raise that amount. The statistical data required for this analysis were not available until the end of last year, so that this study is being prepared and once the results are known, we will get to know you and then, if necessary, we will go into legal changes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, please. Request for complete response.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u54	Thank you very much. I would warn the Minister that she has not answered the questions at all. Not even this question of how to spend a month with 293 euros. Nor does it argue that persons with €293 would be entitled to the payment of supplementary insurance. In the law and also in the new law, persons who are not entitled to financial social assistance and persons who have €293 are not entitled to financial social assistance are not entitled to supplementary health insurance. It means that they also do not have access to compulsory health insurance rights. Madam Minister, are you aware that this is a violation of the provisions of Article 2 of the Constitution under which Slovenia is a social state, as well as of Article 25 of the General Declaration on Human Rights, which was adopted and proclaimed by the General Assembly of the United Nations on 10 December 1948? This provides that everyone has the right to such a standard of living that guarantees him and his family health and well-being, including food, clothing, housing, medical care and the necessary social services, the right to protection in the event of unemployment, sickness, disability, widowhood and the age and other inability to obtain living resources due to circumstances independent of his or her will. For this reason, I will also ask the Ombudsman for an opinion on such a practice of social policy. And it's not about the short-term benefits, as you said, which is the amount of €293 that people have to live on for a year, two, and more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Dr. Anya Digger Dark, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u56	It's a topic that's hard to bring out without acting sublime and having no social sense. The fact is that these people with 293 euros in income need to be helped to have higher income. It cannot be, however, – and this shows all the analyses and our social policy through transfers reduces the risk of poverty by 25% and is one more effective within the European Union, as the European Commission and others have determined. However, the problem is that if you raise the level of minimum income and non-applicable cash social assistance, it should also be borne in mind that when it comes to families, the eligibility of child allowances and all that is involved in this is also the case. And you need to know what the minimum wage is. When you compare these things, the question is how can you ensure that an individual is willing to accept the work? It is a simple social policy that is unfortunately also linked to this in all countries. If we look at the ratio between minimum wage and minimum income or social assistance, which is usually in other European countries, this ratio is generally much higher than in our country. So easy to look at only minimum income, without linking to the labour market and income to the labour market, it can be liked, but unfortunately it is not possible to do these things systematically. But I believe and realize that the people who come to your office are in trouble and it's not easy to survive with this money. Therefore, the reorganisation of social work centres is why we are implementing social activation, which is why these programmes are so important. However, since people are allowed to be on 293 for the next 10 years or, if you say so, 350 euros, I think that this is not the right way and that it is much more important social activation of these people, giving them the opportunity to earn their money and a decent payment in the labour market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, you have a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u58	Thank you very much. I would like to point out to the Minister that the questions I have asked have not been answered at all, nor has she said how to survive with 293 euros a month. I have people coming into my office who are disabled who can't get a job, which makes all the other excuses to consider some bureaucratic relationship with that and that income completely pointless. But this is about survival for those who are actually desperate who cannot get a job that cannot earn a living. The fact that they need to be helped to have higher incomes, to hear this from the ministry, which should take care of these people, is an empty excuse. I apologize for knowing that I am in breach of procedure, but this is the possibility that I may have answered the Minister. As these are truly the poorest people, I think that it is important to remind the Minister that such a social policy, which is governed by this ministry in this area, is certainly not appropriate. Since I think this is embarrassing, I hope that the Ombudsman will act in this area, that this will no longer happen in our country. Thank you very much. But I'm not going to make a procedural proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u59	Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, this was a complete and conscious abuse. There's no excuse here, and please, if you don't do it in the future. Ms Susana Lepi Šimenko will ask the Minister for Education, Science and Sport Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič. Since the Minister is absent, please also identify yourself until the way in which the answer is made. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u60	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to request the Minister's oral reply at the forthcoming meeting of the National Assembly. My oral question, however, concerns the recent public call for co-financing of investments in new buildings, modernisation of sports facilities and co-financing of investments in the renovation of sports floors in 2017 and 2018. The invitation to tender was published on 12 May 2017 and the time limit for applying for the invitation to tender, which, according to my assessment, is very short, 5 June 2017. Why do I find this invitation somewhat controversial? Simply because, in the first place, it is a very low amount of public tender – it is 2 million 743 thousand euros. But it's meant for two sets. In the first part for the renovation of sports halls of gyms, in 2017 for the renovation of sports floors. What is strange, of course, is that between the conditions is the square of 550 square meters. I was warned by the smaller municipalities, which are waiting very long for every call to be made in this country, because, last but not least, they have very few opportunities to apply for various European funds when they see such an invitation to tender, but already at the start they know that they simply cannot apply in the light of the conditions set out in the invitation to tender. In the second part, which concerns co-financing or the construction and modernisation of public covered and non-covered sports facilities to be carried out in 2018, and in this part, the value of the investment must not be less than 1.5 million euros, which is totally unacceptable again for small municipalities or cannot even apply. The second is quite unusual if we look at the small amount of resources we have, only 5 beneficiaries will be able to apply in this second part and 12 in the first part, which is, of course, extremely few. Last but not least, in the first part, when it comes to investments to rebuild the sports floor, where there must be at least 550 square metres of the size of the building, on the other hand, it is about financing things that have actually started in 2017. And here, I'm sorry, but I'm getting the feeling that the invitation is already being made. I'm asking the Ministry: Why do such invitations appear, and why do such conditions occur in the invitation to tender? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojana Muršič will ask the Minister for Education, Science and Sport, Dr Maja Makova Brenčič. I also ask you to define yourself to the way you answer, because the Minister is absent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Mr Vice-President, I want an oral response at the next meeting. I'm asking the secretary. Unemployment in the Republic of Slovenia has been declining over the last period, while temporary work and leisure work have been growing. We know that this form of work reduces the level of labour rights. However, it is a matter of concern that these forms of penitentiary work also take place in the public sector. My parliamentary question concerns the system of education and education. The school year is slowly running out, students and students are still carrying out their final duties. 24. 6. It is their last school day and then the earned school holidays, which last until 31 August. This raises the question of whether teachers are like that. They start using a vacation that starts immediately after 24. 6. Such thinking is misleading, and it is sad that we also have it written under the letter of the law. The writing of reports, the editing and completion of documentation for the current school year also falls under the teacher's or professor's obligation and therefore they also have time to submit the documentation between 5 and 10 July. Unfortunately, I note that many teachers are running out of contracts for a certain period of time. Their contract is linked to the time of instruction, i.e. ten months, and not to the school year as provided for by the Basic School Act in Article 34 of the Law, which provides that the school year lasts from 1 September to 31 August. This is usually the case with younger teachers who complement the school commitment. Usually these teachers monitor a certain mobile child in the class who is offered assistance, also provide assistance to children with a special needs decision, replace longer hospital leave and maternity leave. It is therefore a classic system that creates a group of discipliners employed in education and education. Recognizing that most young people with all professional competences do this work, have all the expertise and professional experience, a multi-year employment practice for them is a painful personal experience without the possibility of planning life in the future. Let me stress that we are talking a lot about helping young people, but in this case they are being played and in a very unequal situation with colleagues who have an indefinite contract. Not only do we take them two school months of vacation, they are also prevented from using a proportional annual vacation, but only a proportional part of the regression. Such practice, however, we know that it affects the duration of unemployment benefits. I therefore ask you in relation to this question: What activities is the Ministry planning to prevent the performance of fixed-term contracts concluded in education and education only for the duration of the entire school year? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Ms Eva Irgl will ask Justice Minister Mag Goran Klemenčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u64	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, colleagues, distinguished Mr. Secretary! The judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in the case of Vaskrsić v Slovenije is known, where Slovenia has to pay compensation and reimburse costs totalling EUR 85,000, due to the rubble and sale of the house in the enforcement procedure resulting from a basic debt of EUR 124. Let me remind you that in this case Slovenia has violated Article 1 of the first Protocol to the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which speaks of the right to property. On this occasion and also on specific violations in the case of Vaskrsić, we have repeatedly warned the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, but in particular we have repeatedly said that it was a disproportionate intervention in the enforcement of the euro 124 property. However, Mr Minister, the case is far from lonely. According to your data, the Ministry's data from 2005 until 2015 amounted to 7 000 246 real estate executions due to debt recovery, which were less than EUR 100. Here, too, I must say that I regret the irresponsible and arrogant response of the Supreme Court that the European Court of Human Rights has clearly interpreted Slovenian enforcement legislation differently. Here you are, Mr. Secretary, I ask the following questions: What do you think of such an arrogant response from the Supreme Court, given that the European Court of Human Rights has made clear what has been violated and what has happened in this case, and that the state has also imposed that it should pay EUR 85,000? I want to know: What measures are you preparing at the Ministry to prevent disproportionate interference in real estate enforcement? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mag. Goran Klemenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u66	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Member Eva Irgle, Members and Members of Parliament, colleague and colleague! Vaskrsić is not a good example for a simple reason because there is no reason to talk about proportionality, disproportionateity. In general, because it is a debtor who was the whole process, the whole executive is fully and absolutely passive. You need to know that our enforcement legislation is already such that the creditor on the one hand is able to initiate the enforcement procedure on any matter that he believes may result in payment. If the debtor objects in this proceedings and repays his claim or his debt in another way, the court must also follow. Why Vaskrsić is not a good example, but he needs to be respected and the Ministry of Justice is doing so, because we are also aware of cases where people in social distress are threatened with work and are threatened with taking them home. We've seen this years ago at the Ministry of Justice. Last year we started to do this intensely. In the final phase of inter-departmental coordination, the Law on Enforcement and Insurance, which also addresses this problem. With the broad consensus of the external profession, including the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the judiciary, it will be a new law, I believe already before the parliamentary holidays adopted by the government and you will be in Parliament in the autumn. In the meantime, Vaskrsić and the Ministry are also working intensively, and in cooperation with the various stakeholders, they are also preparing legislative changes in this area. I absolutely agree with you that it is more than – hard to say, for one is 100 euros big, for the other there is a thousand euros big, so the amount you will probably agree to cannot be entered into the law. In my opinion, it is necessary to order the Court to assess proportionality in each particular case. This is where the solution that we are preparing is going. This decision of the European Court of Human Rights, in particular in other cases, which are more numerous and which are more sensitive from my human point of view than the Vaskrsić case, which has actually been avoided until the last moment of all proceedings, we will also react at the legislative level. So much for that. You yourself gave the number how much real estate executions have been invested. This does not mean that so many have been performed. However, 1% of this has been done, precisely because the legislation already allows you to repay your debt with a different means, and that is also what the court takes into account. In a particular case, Vaskrsić was on the one hand responsible for the extreme irresponsibility of the creditor, and on the other hand for the error of the court, because the two judges had a similar file. This was established and resolved when Vaskrsić happened, and today the court ensures that their organisation of business is such that it can no longer lead to this. I would add this, I will not now comment on the Supreme Court's comment, because I do not have it directly before me, and the fact is that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia here, too, has rejected the appeal in a specific case by reasoning that it is not an important intervention in human rights or an important legal issue and therefore there has been a decision of the European Court of Human Rights, which, as we know, is not yet legally binding, but we certainly take it extremely seriously. As we say this year, I think that before the summer at the government there will be an appropriate amendment to the Law on Enforcement and Insurance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mrs. Eva Irgle, will you request a supplement to your response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary-General. I'm not going to speculate on whether the Vaskrsic case is a good case or not a good case. The fact is, we have quite a few cases like Vaskrsic. I have already said that there are approximately 7,000 300 such cases when real estate executions occur due to debt recovery, which are less than EUR 100. Here we will agree that we will have to find a solution, because this is a disproportionate intervention. I specifically asked you what you really believe about the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in this case, given that the state will have to give 85,000 euros for what happened in this particular case. Only if you can.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mag. Goran Klemenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Let's do it again first. Yes, 7,000 executions have been proposed. That doesn't mean they're happening. The trustee has the right, unless he can otherwise obtain the property, to go into execution, to propose the execution of the property. And believe me, for many cases, there's money from somewhere else. You find a car that was written on, I don't know, a brother and so on. Once again, look, they are to me, I will be honest, the experts who have spoken about this area in the Ministry of Justice, see Minister, for the past 10 years we have always been under some pressure to make the enforcement process more efficient, payment discipline and so on. And we worked this way. Now this social aspect has also begun to be highlighted. There's always a problem finding some balance. Trustees are not just utility companies and banks. There are also children and partners who cannot recover livelihoods if we want to be a little emotional. They're craftsmen who belong because someone doesn't pay them. So, these things aren't one-layered. I believe that, with the help of the National Assembly, we will also find a solution in this new proposal for a law on enforcement and insurance, so that these procedures will try to find a more real measure of proportionality between these two different interests. What I think is the decision of the European Court of Justice, but I have said. We will absolutely respect her. We must respect her. I'm sorry it came to her. It was certainly due to organisational errors in the Court itself and because the judicial branch of the Authority to the Constitutional Court did not recognize this in the manner recognised by the European Court of Human Rights. And as a lawyer, I insist on that, because you asked me that question, it's not a good case. The case is not good because on one side the creditor was completely passive and had this property. In this sense, it must be said that Vaskršić is the first such case, as the case law has so far protected creditors on the basis of the European Court of Human Rights in cases where the creditor has been affected in any way. For example, one of the basic reference judgments is a judgment that was in an Austrian case where the creditor was incapable of business and it is clear that the court must take care of him on an official basis more than Vaskrsić, who did not raise mail for months. Either way, we have a judgment, it's here, we have to follow it, and it can't happen again.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mrs Erika Dekleva will ask the Minister of Defence, Mrs Andreja Katič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u72	Thank you for your word. Nice hello to you all! On May 10th this year, most of the inhabitants of the Postojna and surrounding villages, with their noise, excited the unmanned year of the U.S. Army, which flew through the area during the night, sometime between 23 p.m. and 24 p.m. If I have the right information, it's a two-stroke plane with four cylinders that makes a lot of noise in its flight. But it's supposed to be equipped with infrared cameras, thermal sensors and other equipment. The discomfort of this nocturnal event was so great that after witnessing, the plane flew through the city of Postojna and the surrounding area below 150 meters above the ground. The city may also be 50 meters high, although civil aircraft of cities do not generally fly or fly more than 250 metres above the ground. From the flight schedule and the airspace lock on the Slovenian Armed Forces website there are no posts on the airspace closure for the period mentioned. Dear Minister of Defence, Mrs Andrejo Katič, I ask for an answer and an explanation regarding the above-mentioned night flight. I know that the drone system regulation does not include military drones. That's why I want to know: Were overflights regulated according to other rules, and what was their purpose? In doing so, I would like to draw particular attention to the need to respect the provisions on night peace after 22 p.m. and the existing arrangements with the Slovenian Army regarding the use and management of military infrastructure in the municipality of Postojna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Andreja Katič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u74	Dear Vice-President, honourable Member, thank you very much for the question! In the introduction, let me first welcome the fact that with local communities, with all the local communities in the area of the Central Training Centre of the Slovenian Armed Forces at Poček, we pay very great attention, because we are aware of the importance of the military range and, on the other hand, we understand the demands of the people that the impact of military activities should be as low as possible to the local population. Here, too, I would like to point out the progress made in this mandate in cooperation with the Municipality of Postojno, with which the issue within the specific coordination group is being addressed regularly. In the agreement signed between the Municipality of Postojna and the Ministry, we have committed ourselves to respect certain restrictions, including one of the most important restrictions on the execution of night shootings with heavy weapons. The agreed limits shall be respected to the fullest extent and certain activities at the time of operation of the night range, and in particular during the exercise, cannot be completely avoided and shall not be subject to restrictions. Of course, when planning such activities, they are always trying to achieve that they are as less disturbing to the surrounding population as possible. Given that I have not been informed in the last period that the Slovenian Army in Poček does not carry out activities in the manner agreed upon, I was actually surprised at the question raised. In the last addendum to the existing agreement on the harmonisation of interests regarding the use and management of military infrastructure in the municipality of Postojna, we also specifically specified the way in which the public will be informed of the events. As far as airspace is concerned, it is of course all the events whose performance requires the closure of air traffic and events which are disruptive by noise, including aircraft flying in. We have referred your question to the Chief of Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces and have received the following answer: "Activity was planned in the framework of Air Week military training, joint training with the 173rd Infantry Brigade of the American Armed Forces, which is also included in the Plan of the Defence System and the System of Protection against Natural and Other Disasters in 2017, adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. For the activities carried out by the U.S. Army drone, it was issued by notes for the period 18-24 hours and all the necessary documentation. Activity on the 10th 5. It lasted from 18 to 23.45 hours, which was the time of flight of an unmanned aircraft, without the recording being carried out outside the area of military training. The performance function of the aircraft was performed only on the Poček military training site. The American drone operator was under constant control by a member of the Slovenian Army." According to the instructions of the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces, the vessel was always equipped with a transporter, which also provided flight data to the air traffic controller. The General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces concludes that, in view of the timing of the event, it can be concluded that the drone was in the landing phase and therefore also at a lower altitude than the operational height. In addition, I would like to explain that in order to take-off and land unmanned aircraft participating in military activities on the Poček range, the sport airport in Postojna is currently using, which requires that the city of Postojna also partially flies at a height lower than the operating altitude when taking off and landing at the time of the flight to Poček, which is also what happened in this case. In the context of the modernisation of the Poček range, which is also envisaged for the construction of an airfield for unmanned aeroplanes on the ground, as unmanned aircraft are also becoming an indispensable part of the Slovenian Army, and activities in this regard are already under way, so that after the construction of this aerodrome it will no longer have to use a fixed-wing airport to take off and land unmanned aircraft, which would mean that similar activities, as you mention them, will no longer have to be carried out over settlements in the future. In the end, I can only guarantee that I will always insist on respecting the agreement that would be signed with the Municipality of Postojna, and this last case that you have mentioned, I will also propose to this Interdepartmental Working Group, which is composed of representatives of the Municipality of Postojna and representatives of the administrative department of the Ministry and the Slovenian Armed Forces, to deal specifically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mrs. Erika Girls No? Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Lisec will ask the Minister for Education, Science and Sport Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič. Please also identify yourself in the manner of reply, because the Minister is justifiably absent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u76	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Allow me first to express my indignation at the fact that the President of the National Assembly voluntarily decides when and how the agenda for the sitting will be held, and then, for a period of 15 minutes or 20 minutes before the meeting, the answer is that the Minister will not be present at the meeting. In short, the will of the President of the National Assembly and the written relationship of the executive branch of power to us Members. Of course, I would like an oral response from the Minister of Education, Science and Sport at the next meeting. My question touches on the invitation to tender to co-finance investments in new buildings and update sports facilities. We have already convened an emergency meeting of the SDS Group in 2016 due to the problem of sport infrastructure, which is on average over 37 years old. In the last budgets since 2015, we have proposed to increase the items for this purpose. For 2017, the Minister promised 2 million more, as shown in the 2018 budget. And after the Minister had already promised twice in 2016 that the invitation to tender was just before today, we were all finally heard, but also appalled when we saw the invitation to tender. The Minister decided that the call for both the new construction and modernisation of sports facilities, as well as the co-financing of investments in the renovation of sports floors in 2017 and 2018, will jointly spend EUR 2.7 million. All those of us at any local level, as well as at national level, if you want, have participated in any investment, and we know what the approximate amounts are for these investments, we are horrified. For 2017 and 2018, the Minister set out to give together less than some serious investment – if we are talking about, for example, a stadium, some covered sports hall or perhaps some covered sports pool that we urgently need. When we are appalled by such small amounts, we are also concerned about the criteria that clearly show that some are already selected — people, congregations — who will receive these funds. In short, the Minister would like to ask: Why so low funding for co-financing of sport infrastructure in 2017 and 2018? Last: On what basis did she opt for such criteria and criteria, which apparently favour already predetermined ministers to be able to build, while everyone else will wait for the fines in the coming years, which is scandalous? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Lisec, of course, the President has this competence under Article 19 and Article 21, paragraph 9, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to do so – that he has postponed the meeting for two hours. However, he did so on the basis of a written request from Dr Simone Kustec Lipicer and Mr Franz Jurša, i.e. two groups of Members. Please, because you have already deceived the public on the committee to comply with the rules of procedure of the National Assembly. Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec will ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology Mr. Zdravek Počvalšk.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u78	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister! For about a year and a half now, we have not been dealing more with how and why public procurement has taken place in the event of purchase and installation of a safety fence and a panel fence. There is no secret that we have opposed the establishment of these obstacles in the United Left since the beginning, but we certainly insist from the beginning that there is no need for these transactions to be marked by the degree of internal secrecy. As a result, a fellow moon on the Commission for the supervision of public finances also requested the submission of all data relating to the acquisition of this fence. Some of the data came in, and then we additionally asked the Department of Stocks to disclose some other data, so to remove the level of secrecy from the documents, because it is: first, in the public interest and, more importantly, because in our opinion, there were never any reasons for these documents to bear such a label. If additional suspicions of illegality in the procurement process are raised, of course, the withdrawal of the level of secrecy is internal to what is in the public's primary interest. Last but not least, it is the suspicion of one of the biggest corrupt affairs in the time of this government, in this mandate, which should also be the responsibility of the responsible one, namely you and the President of the Government. Even if we hypothetically accept what some of the government's answers were, as well as the institution, that there was this reason at the time of the implementation of these procedures, we believe that these reasons are no longer there. The fence is set up, we know it stands, we know how long it is, and of course what is crucial is to find out what happened in the case of these public procurements. That's why I'm asking you: Does the value of buying the cutting wire and the panel fence that you have discovered match what is now public with the sums of all the contracts you have concluded? If so, then please, if you define yourself very clearly to this answer, yes or no. Another time. The Department of Stocks admitted that there had been some kind of discrepancy at the time of the transactions. Otherwise, it is claimed in public that there has been some kind of mistake. That's why I want to know: Did MGRT check these statements from the Institute? Did he examine how these mistakes occurred? Does MGRT have documents that can substantiate the institution's claims? If so, of course I would ask that these documents, of course, be presented in the National Assembly. Finally, once again, the disclosure of these treaties is in the public interest and I believe that confidentiality is in fact merely a disguise of procedural manipulation. Therefore, on the one hand, that the cheapest bidder had not been chosen and that the procedure had in fact begun before the decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Zdravko Restoršek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u80	Thank you, Chairman. Members, Members, honourable Members! I find that the question you asked me is different from the one you sent me. This is contrary to the third paragraph of Article 240 of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, but I will nevertheless respond with all the information I have at my disposal. As everyone is aware, in early autumn 2015, mass arrivals of migrants appeared, demanding more effective management of exceptional security situations related to the protection of the state border, the local population, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and property. To this end, the Government has taken a decision to put temporary technical barriers on the border with Croatia. The decision was taken on the basis of a developed plan for the use of technical and other means to prevent unauthorised border crossings. The government authorised the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology to purchase a fence through an implementing institution, namely the Department of Freight Reserves. The creation of new stocks must be based on a five-year programme for the creation of state supply reserves, in accordance with the Law on Trade Reserves. This is a software document whose public disclosure would pose high security risks to national security, as all strategic state reserves — fuel, food and other things — would be exposed. For this reason, five-year programmes and their amendments have been marked by a certain degree of secrecy for all years. The Ministry of Economic Development and Technology has proposed to the Government three amendments and additions to the five-year programme for the development of state-owned commodity reserves, on the basis of which they were able to develop supplies of safety wire fences at the Department of Trade Reserves. As an implementing institution, the procedure for the acquisition of a cable fence was led by the Department of Commercial Reserves in accordance with Article 17, paragraph 3, of the Law on Public Procurement in force at that time, which states or follows that no public tender is required for these matters, since it was an exception to the provisions of Article 17, paragraph 1, third paragraph, of the Law on Public Procurement in force at that time. Pursuant to that provision, the Public Procurement Act does not apply to public contracts which disclose information marked by a degree of secrecy, public contracts whose implementation must be accompanied by specific security measures, or public procurements necessary for the risk of the essential security interests of the Republic of Slovenia, in accordance with the law. As the Minister responsible for supply, the Government also authorised me, under Article 4 of the Law on Trade Reserves, to decide, in agreement with the Minister of the Interior, on the use of trade reserves for the purpose of controlling migration flows. Decisions on the use of national reserves were issued in accordance with the Law on Trade Reserves and with a decision of the Government at the initiative of the Ministry of the Interior. Data on mandatory state reserve programming documents are extremely sensitive in nature. In order to ensure national security, it is essential that they remain classified internally. I would also like to point out that all procurement procedures and the installation of protective technical barriers have been fully conducted in accordance with the rules. I also add that, at the request of a number of journalists and Members, we have already repeatedly disclosed and explained everything related to the purchase of a wire and panel fence, except for the total amount of wire. First data on the wire fence that was first installed. The wire and related materials were supplied by several suppliers, the average price of the cutting wire on the liquid meter was 11.66 euros, the total value of the wire was EUR 868 thousand 753 and the value of the required material, the bearing rod, the fastening wedge and the steel wire was EUR 550 thousand. All costs of purchasing and building a wire fence amounted to 2 million 600 thousand. And for the panel fence. The total value of the acquisition of a panel fence was 4 million 27 000 and the total cost of purchasing and installing a wire panel fence at the border with the Republic of Croatia was 6 million 628 000 EUR 323. So now it seems to you that, after all this information that has been presented multiple times, whatever we're hiding. Here. With a degree of secrecy, we have marked the State Reserves Programme as it has been for years, and this document is not intended to be disclosed, as it contains a number of data whose disclosure could pose major security risks. The only thing we have not yet revealed is the quantity of the entire supply of technical barriers, not because we had secret agreements with the supplier, but because we care about the interests of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u81	Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u82	Thank you, Vice President. Of course, we have requested all documents, except for this five-year state reserve programme, because we are aware of the status of this document. But the fact is that now that the fence is standing, for all the other documents there would no longer be a need to wear this mark internally. The total value of both transactions, i.e. a wire panel fence, is 6 million EUR 628 000. That's why I'm interested, given that you don't want to disclose all the information and all the contracts: Does this amount correspond to what all of them have done together? I think it's a key information because you don't want to disclose the entire amount now means one thing: whether it's hiding in the back of a deal right with the supplier; so you've either been buying too much of this material, unless – and if I'm having a little bit of a chat – you're trying to surround the entire state border with this wire fence and we have this stock of this material. The other thing that is also crucial is certain exceptions to the public procurement system, but we know that there was a public procurement. In fact, the call was sent before a decision was taken to initiate the procedure, and I am interested, once again: Did MGRT check the claims of the Department of Commerce Reserves and why these discrepancies occurred in those dates? How is it possible that the call went to suppliers before a decision was taken to initiate the procurement procedure? These are data which, in our view, are in the public interest and which, even if it has ever existed, there is no longer any reason for them to bear such a mark. So I ask you the answer to these two more questions. So: Does this 6 million match all the contracts? Have you checked the claims of the Department of Stocks?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u83	Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u84	Thank you. First question. This amount covers all purchases of protective equipment at the border and must match and match what the institution has done. But once again, I must say that, following the procurement procedure, the fence under Article 17 of the Public Procurement Act: under that provision, the Public Procurement Act does not apply to the public procurement that we have performed. Nevertheless, we worked through the system to provide the time and costiest component. At the time we were doing this, however, it must be said that there was no way to obtain and there was not a single mile or a meter of wire available in Europe at that time. And talk about when it was and the enquiries started way before we got to the possibility of even doing this business. [[…]] Once again, we have done all things under the existing law in a way that ensures the required quantities in the cheapest possible way and all this documentation exists in the institution. I am deeply convinced that all the controls in this area below will show that either the insinuation or the suspicion that anything was wrong in this area is wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u85	Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec, you have the floor to request that the answer be discussed at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u86	Thank you, Vice President. That's what I'm gonna ask. I don't normally do this, but I think it's a pretty important and outstanding question. We believe that there are some inconsistencies and things that simply don't count, and that is probably why the public is also so curious about the procedures involved in purchasing this cutting wire and panel fence. On the one hand, despite what they have set out, I insist that something very specific has happened; so that the call to suppliers went out a week before the decision to initiate the procurement procedure was taken, which is the first thing and which also gives rise to this suspicion of falsification of documents, so that these dates have been adjusted. The other thing is, it's not true that the cheapest bidder was chosen. For the panel fence, Minis actually offered a higher price than other bidders and there is also a very important question of who this Minis is. We know that a company that deals with a loss that is down, a director is some phantom person that no one can call, which almost no one knows, and of course it's an extra stone in this mosaic, which in some way raises some doubts. As I said before, I do not claim to be, but there is a suspicion that this is one major corrupt affair, not even this government. I think it's an object that we should actually have a broader debate about in this National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u87	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Tuesday, as part of the vote. We continue with Mrs Janja Slug's question. She will ask the Minister of the Environment and the premises of Mrs Irena Majcen. Mrs. Servant, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u88	Thank you very much. At the end of March, the Ministry of Environment and Space published a draft regulation on mandatory municipal economic service for collecting municipal waste and was held in public debate until 3 May. Members of the SMC received comments from the field at that time, a number of comments that initially referred to the collection for humanitarian purposes, followed by comments from the principals of primary schools, since the text stated that students should leave paper, plastic and so on to the municipal company free of charge, without any financial compensation. Here I would like to stress in particular that this kind of gathering in primary schools has many beneficial effects. It is said that not only this specific financial impact, which is reflected in this collection payment. They pay not only for humanitarian purposes, i.e. for the things that are needed, but also for some superstandard, I will say, for some additional excursions, for some extra material, for some additional things in teaching. We can also talk here about the educational component itself, about awareness, about ecological education, or about education for life if we want to. I think that the easiest way to teach children is by example, by action, and in this way also makes it easier for them to understand the meaning of such behavior, and this is easier to imagine. I would therefore like to ask you for an answer: Will the possibilities for collecting paper and bottles and so on in schools, in addition to for humanitarian purposes, be maintained for other purposes in the new regulation or maintained in the same form as it was now? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u89	I give the floor to Mrs Irena Majcen, Minister for the Environment and Space.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u90	Mr Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Your Honour, Mrs Janja Slug, thank you for your question. To put aside all doubts, I would like to say that in the text of what you have stated is not in the text. Therefore, in the text of the new regulation, which refers to the activities and tasks of the compulsory municipal public service for collecting municipal waste, this text is not available. Everything you've said, we are aware, and of course I absolutely agree with you. There's no doubt about it. It is true that now, after this information – or I will call it misinformation – we will put this exception in the Environmental Protection Act, which is currently in preparation and will be introduced. I fully agree with you that we Slovenians are truly aware of humanitarianism, this is part of our culture, whenever, not for years, but we have been dealing with humanitarianism for decades, and of course it has never been in any way questioned. As you said in kindergarten, this is part of the learning process and how successful it is to see that Slovenia is the most successful country in the European Union in separating household waste. I would like to tell you why we are amending this Regulation. The regulation is amended for the purpose of the audit of the Court of Auditors, which was carried out in 2016. This audit was quite receptive, and at that time we somehow explained that we would have to make all the necessary changes – that is, we had to make a lot of changes, and something is still waiting for us – we did it in two years and this timing is now ending. We've got a few other acts in progress. Certainly, there has been a lot of publicity in the media when it was said that, under this regulation, businesses will not be able to broadcast any more, and I will say this, raw materials – I alone cannot talk about all these things as waste, but in fact they are raw materials – they will no longer be able to broadcast or sell for their own needs or to generate income. At Monday's meeting, we also resolved this misunderstanding, so that, as it turns out, some people's interests were not to adopt this regulation. We expected that, because it was already ready in 2013, and then it was not fully processed because of various interests. Thus, the regulation replaces the order and speaks of all that public economic services must take care of at the level of the municipalities for us citizens. So the congregation will have to take care of us so that we have the opportunity to deliver the paper free of charge in the immediate vicinity, so that we will also have the opportunity to hand over the glass to collect separate factions from us. So this is what this regulation is talking about. Why is that important? The main purpose of the proposal for a regulation is to create conditions for increasing the share of municipal waste for reuse, recycling and recovery, and to achieve, as Slovenia, a target that is also set at the level of the European Union, namely to achieve a reduction in the percentage of waste disposal to landfills below 10% as soon as possible. So I really thank you for your question, because now I have had the opportunity to explain all these dilemmas or uncertainties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u91	Mrs Janja Slug, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u92	Thank you. It's just to put an end to all these doubts. If I have understood you correctly, this school collection of these materials is not the content that would fit into this regulation, so I have understood you and will therefore be introduced into the Environmental Protection Act. Now I want to know: When will this law on environmental protection be adopted? So we don't accidentally get into some empty space. When will he be accepted? And: What kind of dictatorship are we now discussing within the Environmental Protection Act? I would particularly like to point out that you, too, have now spoken again only about collecting for humanitarian purposes. In particular, I stress that schools are not always just for humanitarian purposes; they are also for other purposes, as I said, for school programmes, for certain materials and so on. It is also important to be careful when the text is written that it will not be defined for humanitarian purposes only. Just enough to clear that up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u93	Minister Irene Majcen, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u94	It is even better if you can explain some things that may be less carefully presented. So, as far as humanitarianism is concerned, there is one content, and as far as this school process is concerned, there is another content, and we will allow both processes. Although, once again, I stress, there is no inspection decision which in any way prohibits this right now, and this regulation does not change anything. However, in the future, there may not be a dilemma, whether it is necessary for inspectors to act or not, we will be allowed this content as an exception, so that we know how we sometimes read the laws, and we will introduce an exception to the Environmental Protection Act, which will be held in public hearing in June. I am sure that we will get the initiative immediately at public hearing if we are to write something in a vague way. Otherwise, as we know, you will help us to create this content in our Members' meals. I wish that this law, because it also solves many other dilemmas, would really be adopted by the end of this year. When we met with the buyers of this waste material, I must admit that they mentioned some inspection decisions that we have never received. This means that, in fact, inspectors, like all of us, have accepted that charity, humanitarianism is part of our culture, but that the educational process is, of course, a process that trains and leads children through life and teaches them to collect waste separately. Thus, even so far, although this has not been allowed anywhere, the inspection services have of course not taken action in these cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u95	Mrs Iva Dimic will ask Mrs Irena Majcen, Minister for Environment and Space.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Madam Secretary! I have a parliamentary issue that may be more relevant to local affairs, but neither the Spatial Planning Act nor the Regulation on the Content of Building Land Equipment Programmes provide for the highest or lowest share of co-financing of investments with a municipal contribution. Article 11, paragraph 3, of the Regulation states that the construction of municipal equipment is financed by a municipal contribution. The municipality must determine the share of co-financing of the total cost of the investment by means of a municipal contribution or the share of the total costs financed by the municipal contribution before construction. This share represents the calculation costs of municipal equipment and is the basis for the assessment of the municipal contribution. This is Article 13 of the Regulation. The fifth paragraph of Article 11 of the Regulation limits the reduction in the share of the accounting costs in total costs, so that the share of the calculation costs in the total cost of the construction of the individual infrastructure by area of the municipality can be determined in such a way that the difference between the maximum and the minimum share may not exceed the minimum share. So if this cost was accounted for with nothing somewhere else, how high can this cost be in another place? If we go after this, it must not be higher than the minimum share. So, Madam Minister, I ask you: Why are municipal contributions to the congregations so varied? Why are some so high that they are socially unacceptable and completely overlook the social picture of the congregations? How did you plan to address the issues of inability to pay the municipal contribution on the social side of the impossible to pay? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u97	Madam Minister Irena Majcen has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u98	The honourable Member, Mrs Iva Dimic, since I was also, of course, the mayor herself, is the subject of municipal decisions to charge and charge and pay and determine the exceptions you are talking about. This is inevitable, which means that even now, the congregation, the municipal council, municipal councilors can now propose that the socially disadvantaged in investments be exempt from the payment of municipal contributions. They usually also decide when an investor is a municipality that it is not actually some kind of circulation of money in the same transaction account. In which other cases the municipal councilors may make such a decision. Our Spatial Planning Act and the Content Regulation of the Building Land Management Programme provide that the basis for a municipal contribution is to be determined by means of a municipal equipment programme. The method of equipping buildings and the municipal contribution shall be based on the determination of the actual value of municipal equipment, which shall be determined in the form of common costs. The value of municipal equipment is influenced by various factors, such as the type of municipal equipment, the capacity or capacity of municipal equipment, the natural factors affecting the complexity of construction, and the type of settlement, also affect the quantity, length of the water supply required by municipal equipment. As a result, the amount of the municipal contribution is affected by the value of the municipal equipment which is reduced by the resources derived from the State budget for the funds invested from the municipal budget and other funds acquired by the municipality for the construction of municipal equipment, including European funds. This means that the share of funds financed by the municipal contribution is called accounting costs. The Regulation also lays down safeguards in its content that prevent greater deviations in the determination of accounting costs within a municipality, namely the determination of a significant derogation which does not allow for more than twice the difference between the maximum and the lowest unit costs and the determination of the difference between the maximum and minimum share of the total costs. The difference in the amount of the municipal contribution generated for the same type of municipal equipment between the municipalities is essentially dependent on the value of the municipal equipment and the proportion of the total costs. However, these shares may vary considerably between the municipalities, since the municipalities are independent in determining the accounting costs. The municipality may also adjust the amount of the municipal contribution through more detailed criteria, by means of the activity factor and the ratio between the share of the plot and the share of the net floor area of the facility. In the final phase, however, the size of its building plot and the size or net floor area of the facility have a strong impact on the level of the municipal contribution of each debtor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u99	Mrs Iva Dimic, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, thank you for your answer. You must understand that Rakeka’s natives are coming to the office and are very upset because all you have said is that the equipment program itself – they were not previously informed of the amount of the municipal contribution itself, and that they suddenly began to receive decisions or information calculations within 14 days of the decision. Earlier that talk, however, no one — three years before the start of the construction — would have to be informed that they would have to co-finance in any way, even though they asked if they had called for the congregation, what their share would be as citizens. It seems to me that it is necessary to understand here that the municipal contribution must be proportionate to the possibility of citizens to pay – the amount of, of course, and the meals. If we are talking about a congregation that doesn't really know how much at the top of average wages and all the indicators of demographic and social life, I think we need to look at how things are accounted for here. I'm interested, however, in the respect of the Minister: How is supervision of the measured level of the municipal contribution? In view of this: Is there any need for legislative action in this area? Nevertheless, it is precisely from this point of view that social hardship and, of course, the ability of citizens to pay should also be considered in the accounting. There is more and more, and the municipalities are so different that they simply leave doubts to all citizens, citizens and citizens across Slovenia that things can be nothing - in a place and then another place gets, I don't know, so high the sum of over a thousand 500 euros. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u101	Thank you very much. I give my reply to Minister Irena Majcen.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u102	Your Honor, I'm a little confused. Well, maybe with everything that's happening to me, it's not unusual, but I'll explain why. The utility contribution is given in new constructions. What you're talking about, the construction, the upgrading of some sewer water, is not a communal contribution to me. Surely, on the municipal council, it was necessary to accept a cost of how much the locals would contribute to the construction work. I think it is necessary to look at this first, because in my practice, as far as I know it, we have not even gone with the professional services in this direction, which you are now explaining to me, but, as far as I know, the municipal contribution is intended for payment when the new construction and the parcel is equipped with municipal water and depending on the number of these lines — that is, water, sewerage — is paid for by the municipal contribution. You're setting me up with something completely new right now. So when the natives were building, there was no municipal water for wastewater. At that time, the municipal contribution was not paid for. Thus, it would be possible, if the Ministry had to help, to ask for the decisions themselves, because in my opinion the municipal council had decided on these costs – but I think it would be the right thing to do. There may have been some mistakes here as well. It is true, however, that if they have a decision, the decision also has a legal lesson, but usually people want to solve it in another way, I understand. If necessary, please intervene and then we will add an additional answer. I'm sorry, really, that's my opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u103	Mrs Iva Dimic, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Maybe I'll take advantage of a little bit, I'd say, procedural proposal. But my procedural proposal goes in the direction of thanking the Minister for Preparedness, and I would really like certain matters to be resolved with her personally or with her co-workers. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u105	Mr Bojan Podkrodšek will ask the question of the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petr Gasperšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u106	Mr. Vice President, thank you for the floor. Honourable Minister Dr. Gasperšič, both ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Dear Minister, my question concerns the problems of motorists in the Republic of Slovenia with regard to the licensing of citizens coming from the former republics of Yugoslavia. In Slovenia, as well as in my place where I live, there are many carriers who have a long tradition; tradition so long that now one of them is going to peace, and these companies are taking over their successors, their sons, their daughters. This means that they have an extremely long tradition in this area. Car transport in the Republic of Slovenia is very often in a difficult situation. The last two and three years have also been very busy with citizens and citizens of foreign countries coming to Slovenia, so over 500 companies have been opened in the last two to three years, with only postal collectors in our country, mostly in some accounting services, and only because Slovenia is a member of the European Community. They have a license here, and they have everything else in their countries. This is a great competition for all our carriers, which are required by law; from having their parking spaces, workshops, to taking into account all the legislation. And of course, those who open these companies in the Republic of Slovenia, not our citizens, also take over their workers. Of course, because their legislation is certainly not as strict as ours, they may be offered 50 or 100 euros in personal income in their countries. Most of the time, even if they can pay for it in cash, and those workers or drivers that we raise and are good workers can then be taken away. Dear Minister, I ask you: What did the ministry — or you — do at that time? I think they've also contacted the Ministry on several occasions because of this problem, so I'm asking you: Is the Ministry preparing any measures to address this issue? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u107	Dr. Peter Gaspersich, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u108	Thank you, President, for your word. Thank you, honourable Member of the Sub-Department, for the question raised on the issue of licensing, if you say so, to companies that are more or less, for example, collectors. In the introduction, I would say that the competence of licensing in the Republic of Slovenia with the Road Transport Act is entrusted to the competent chambers, branch chambers, these are the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. The conditions for the issue of licences to be fulfilled by the applicant are laid down in the law and these are the following: I will indicate here, in order to know on the basis of what conditions a licence can be obtained. This is: the carrier must fulfil the relevant professional competence for the operator of the transport company – there is a need for a special professional examination – it must have a permanent seat in the Republic of Slovenia, this is, for example, a business space where business documentation is then kept. The company must also have adequate capital and financial reserves, amounting to EUR 9 000 for the first cargo vehicle and EUR 5 000 for each subsequent cargo vehicle, and must not be penalised for serious infringements that are also laid down in European regulations. The licence for carrying out this particular type of transport shall then be issued to the Chamber of Carriers on the basis of a complete application and of such proof of compliance with those conditions. In the last eight years, 845 licences were granted to transport companies owned by foreign legal or natural persons, i.e. in the eight years 845. At present, according to the data of both chambers, it has a license of 635 transport companies in which the owners are foreign legal or natural persons. This is about 11 percent of all licences issued, which are 5,000 830. With regard to the compatibility of the operations of transport companies, this is noted by the Infrastructure Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia, the Police and also the FURS, the Financial Administration. On the basis of the reports of those authorities, the Chamber may then also temporarily or permanently withdraw the national licence or Community licence or individual copy of the licence. Where inspectors detect infringements of the rules, they shall communicate to the two Chambers, both issuing the notice of legal infringements. Our Infrastructure Inspectorate, in the framework of the inspections, supervises in particular compliance with the legitimate conduct of transport operations, such as company registrations, licences issued, compliance with social legislation, record-keeping. In addition to these checks carried out by inspections carried out as often as possible at the premises of the undertaking, the general verification of the conditions relating to the issue of the licence itself shall also be carried out, namely whether the conditions relating to the requirements relating to the seat, the appointment of the transport operator and the fulfilment of the conditions relating to the vehicles themselves are met. In the course of last year, the inspectorate exercised control over 260 companies and in cases where the inspector, the inspectorate finds that there are grounds for revocation or withdrawal of the licence, then informs the competent chamber, craft or economic, and submits a proposal for revocation and withdrawal of the licence. On this basis, the Chambers then act and then, according to their assessment, withdraw the licence they granted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u109	Mr Bojan Podkoršek, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u110	Thank you, Your Honor, for your answer. In order to understand each other, as a member of the National Assembly, I do not blame this problem on you, but rather I call on you to help Slovenian carriers. Both of us, both of us, when I was elected as your minister, we certainly have to stand up for our companies. I don't think there's any doubt about it between us, and there's no doubt about it in the National Assembly. Of course, much of what you have told me in response is always true for our companies, for the Slovenian who has worked for decades and also has an inspector to reach it. That's a fact. He'll always be dealt with. So that I wouldn't think of it, I went to two addresses to see if that's true; and that's true! When you see this, you don't think you live in Slovenia. There may be ten companies open in one room that have nothing to do with Slovenia, not with citizenship, not with anything. But of course, that is what our citizens are capable of; only those who serve in this area. I was even more appalled — not today’s name — and it bothers me a lot because on the whole of the state administration, we throw bad light on everything. We also have extremely good officials who work and work. And when I found one address — someone who works in the government even makes it possible. Thus, the Minister-designate would call for these companies to be inspected, indeed examined — not by Slovenian companies — by companies with 10, 15 collectors open to one address, allowing them to do so by those who serve in this area and at the same time shed a bad light on our businesses, who have been working fairly for decades. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u111	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u112	Thank you very much. The Ministry of Infrastructure also strives and cares for a successful business environment and the functioning of these sectors of the economy, such as the automotive sector. At our ministry we have already had several meetings together with the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce and representatives of various automotive companies. We also discussed this issue, and I was aware of it, but, as it is said, concerns that such companies, which do not meet the conditions, are not even licensed in the first place or are found to exist such companies with a licence that do not meet the conditions, are actually within the competence of the Chamber of Commerce or Economics. I will pay particular attention to this, which you have also warned me today, and I will also remind both chambers to act in such a way that such opportunities will be unlawfully granted or contrary to the prescribed legislation of the licences granted, that they will be withdrawn and that this will no longer be possible. However, I think that this applies whether the owner is the one who has registered the company, ours or the other; in short, all such undertakings which do not fulfil the conditions for carrying out the transports prescribed for the issue of the licence to withdraw such licences. I think this is indeed the task of competent chambers of commerce, which must first and foremost protect their industry in which companies unite. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u113	Mr. Underpants, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u114	Minister, once again, thank you for your answer. The second part of the answer I'm sure I agree with everything you've said. [[…]] But everything you've said has to be put to life. According to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would suggest that we also bring this debate to the National Assembly, but I call on myself not only today that I have invited the Minister, all those in the Republic of Slovenia, through this microphone, to immediately cancel those earnings they have on this account, because I will personally take the initiative to visit any such company that allows these casual transactions. I will also say positively when we solve this problem, and next time, I will tell everyone that we will also make a name for ourselves; that we will not do injustice to anyone and always speak casually in the National Assembly, and that next time we will tell the names and surnames of those who allow it to be easier for inspectors to work or open their eyes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u115	Your proposal to hold a debate on this subject at the next meeting will be decided on Tuesday in the framework of the votes. We continue with the question of Mr Franz Jurša, Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petr Gasperšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u116	Mr President, thank you for the floor. My greeting is valid for all three ministers, but of course I particularly welcome the Minister, who I will ask him an interesting question, at least for me. Both you and your ministry, and especially the Directorate for Roads of the Republic of Slovenia, are aware of the problem of loading some state roads with heavy trucks. That's perfectly logical, but it's some other question that has to do with it. I am talking about the relationship between Radenci-Grabonos, the civil initiative has raised this issue several times, so I will ask you the following questions in this regard, Mr Minister. As you are aware, with the construction of the Pomeranian road, I would say quick roads first, the section of the main imports for the people of Radencev, the work of Gornja Radgona, then the municipality of Tišina, Cankova, Rogaševci, Grad and Kuzma, which represents a large percentage of the increase in traffic in this section. Some say it's a 100 percent increase. The additional burden and danger is also freight transport, which is limited by traffic signalling, but unfortunately none is taken into account. This restriction is often violated by the domestic and even more frequently by the foreign drivers of the largest trucks, especially in order to avoid payment of the toll. It is very important that we also take this matter into account. As a result, the situation in this area has deteriorated and has also deteriorated significantly in the life of the population. Excessive deterioration of the conditions of residents living along that road and, of course, of others moving along that road. That is why I am referring to you with three questions: When and in what way will you solve the problem? When can residents expect the restoration of an extended road to ensure the safety of all road users and residents living on that road? Can residents expect reconstruction of that road by building sidewalks by co-financing the Road Directorate? I would like to ask you politely for an answer to the initiative to take place at this section. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u117	Minister, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u118	Thank you so much for saying that. Thank you very much too, Mr Jurša, for the question raised. Indeed, there are some sections on the network of state roads where after the construction of the highways, which then became some connecting, connecting roads, traffic on them increased. Even more burdened are those sections where certain truck drivers try to avoid certain toll stations and thus pay the toll. Where these attempts are made to avoid toll payment, I can say that this problem will largely be resolved by the introduction of an electronic toll system for freight vehicles, which Dars plans its introduction by 1. 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. At this section you mention, the issue is also familiar to me, and the Directorate has already undertaken rescue activities and activities are already under way to improve this state of affairs and infrastructure reconstruction at this section of Radenci-Grabonoš. Thus, two weeks ago, representatives of the municipality met at the Infrastructure Directorate, as well as civil initiatives, which included and drew attention to this issue, and agreed to proceed first with the limitation of freight traffic. The appropriate signalling by which this transport of goods vehicles will be limited to 3.5 tonnes, except that this is possible for local traffic, is envisaged to be placed somewhere in the first half of June. At present, the Directorate is still exploring two possible options for setting up these restrictive tables, but, as it is said, this is expected to be resolved by mid-June. In addition to restrictions, the Directorate also plans to cover some 400 metres of the most critical sections where the road is in the worst condition as part of regular maintenance this year. What's next? The Directorate proposed that a more demanding project of renewal be included in the 2018 budget and further budgets, subject to this future budget change. In any case, this project, i.e. a comprehensive renewal of this section, will also be included in the operational plan, the six-year investment plan that we are preparing at the Ministry and is expected to be adopted by the Government in the middle of this year. Assuming that the funds will be provided, as planned for 2018, an invitation to tender for the contractor of construction works could then be made in 2018 on which of these most critical parts of the said road. At this meeting, which was held at the Directorate, the municipality was also proposed to provide the municipality with project documentation in the interim, so that the matter could become even faster and then these financial contributions under the cooperation agreement would also be properly accounted for. It is clear, however, that the sharing of such investments, including sidewalks, public lighting and these matters – the sidewalk is an investment that falls within the jurisdiction of the congregation, while the renewal of the road, the vehicles, the jurisdiction of the Directorate. So much for a little while. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u119	Mr. Franz Jurša, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u120	Thank you very much. I must say that I am satisfied with the answers, but I will say that I would like your words, Mr Minister, to act as if an act actually happens. And if this happens in the following year 2018, then we are satisfied with this purpose, but no more questions will be asked in that year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Peter Gaspersich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u122	Thank you very much. As it is said, the steps are as follows: in the middle of June traffic restrictions, in the course of this year the overlay of the most critical sections, the classification of the road into the budget, the development of project documentation and the next year's call for construction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordiš will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Dr Anji Kopač Dark.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u124	Thank you for your word, chairman. Social assistance currently amounts to poor €293, which is almost €100 less than promised in 2009. At that time, the official assessment showed that the minimum for physical survival is EUR 385. According to the law, the first step in increasing social assistance is the assessment of the minimum cost of living and is expected to be done every five years; it is said that it should be done no later than in 2014, when you were the Minister at the ministerial chair in the government of Alenka Bratušek. But she wasn't. Then, in 2015, the Government signed a social agreement where it moved this assessment to 2016. And last July you replied to me that you were still waiting for the October 2016 data, which would only become known then. Well, today is 26 May 2017, and the ratings are still not, which is a major problem, because there are various forms of social assistance attached to this assessment and everything related to this. That's why I want to know: When will the final assessment be made? Who will be responsible for the delay? And since we can assume that the calculation will show at least EUR 385, I am interested: How will you provide funds to raise financial social assistance? The main problem is that this monetary social assistance is too low, and the additional problem is that because of non-life legislation, many people find it difficult to obtain this kind of money at all. I have two questions in this regard. There have been several cases at the Ljubljana Centre for Social Work and in Lithuania that the social work centre has reduced aid by 10 per cent, the reason was, I quote, "not to show the cost of staying". So if someone had an apartment, they'd get full social assistance based on that logic. Madam Minister: Do you think it would be appropriate for a homeless bum to lower his allowance because he literally lives on the road because he cannot show the cost of living? The Centre for Social Work of Šiška rejected the role of the homeless as a protection allowance – this is another issue. The reason was that the homeless man had three children with whom he had not been in contact for 25 years. The Centre for Social Work has requested evidence either that children are unable to survive it or that they have entered into a survival contract, although I repeat, they have not been in contact for 25 years. Do you think it would be appropriate for a homeless person to be deprived of a protective allowance, a bum, even though he has no one to help him? These are my questions, this is the inviolability of legislation, even in its enforcement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Dr. Anya Digger Dark, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u126	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Member Miha Kordish, thank you for the question. First of all, it may be necessary to point out that social policy in the Republic of Slovenia operates in accordance with the principle of reciprocity and subsidiarity, which, of course, shows that, first of all, the necessary social security, is the responsibility of everyone, then within the family and then comes to the turn of the state. I'm sorry, but it's always been that way. In all other European countries too, this principle is very similar and must then be implied at all levels and this is the basic basis for social policy. As far as minimum income is concerned, 2009 was calculated, the legislation was adopted in 2010, and it entered into force in 2012 and then in the framework of these five years – not 2009, as you said, since the legislation was then later – it is envisaged to calculate the minimum cost of living. And it is true, in the mandate of Minister Svetlik, for the first time in a very long time, more than 10 years, these calculations were made and these calculations were the basis. Now methodologically always forget to say that this was calculated 385 and reduced not just because it is temporary. But this is a methodology that was and was full of EUR 288, which was unfortunately reduced by the economic crisis and the actual limitation of funds in this area. I'm sorry. As far as the new calculations are concerned, as I said, the point is that we get the data, i.e. statistical data, the SURS has unfortunately provided the data needed for this calculation only at the end of last year. The calculations are being prepared, and when they are, of course, there will be an analysis. If the difference in this calculated cost of the minimum cost of living and the currently valid minimum income will be more than 20 per cent, then the minimum income will rise and we will have to discuss within the Government how it will ensure. However, it is a fact, as I said earlier on Mrs Mag's question. Juliane Bizjak Mlakar that it is necessary to have a distinction to the minimum wage, average salary, protective allowance and a lot of it. The second question is regarding monetary social assistance. With regard to the reduction of monetary social assistance due to the non-delivery of the cost of staying in the case of the homeless, the Ministry considers that the entitlement to financial social assistance and the reduction of social assistance depends on each particular case, and therefore it is impossible to assess what is right and what is wrong. It is necessary to assess the specific case, which is essentially the responsibility of the centre for social work, and in the event of a complaint then all these facts are taken into account by the Ministry of Labour and judged as a secondary body. Therefore, the lowering of financial social assistance due to the non-declaration of the cost of staying depends, in fact, on the actual housing situation of the homeless person, whether they actually have to pay for accommodations or not. In short, this is a matter of administrative and secondary decision-making procedures, a matter of the Ministry of Labour. As far as the problem of homelessness is concerned, the fact is that it is not possible to fully resolve this issue with money, and we are, above all, making a substantial contribution to the various programmes for the assistance of the homeless each year. In 2016 we earmarked €164,000 for the programmes of the homeless, in 2017 a million 240 000. This network of programmes for the homeless includes preventive programmes and psychosocial assistance, including information and advisory programmes with field work, coordination programmes, accommodation, support and implementation of assistance and self-help, accommodation programmes, social inclusion programmes, activation programmes aimed at improving employment opportunities, professional assistance due to addiction, association in daily centres, as it is also important for individuals because most of them do not have a developed social network. However, you must know that in Slovenia we also implement 12 shelters and one accommodation programme co-financed by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, and together have 324 capacity. In fact, in addition to the financial social assistance they receive, social protection programmes as well as social activation programmes need to be taken into account, which will include the homeless in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr. Miha Kordish, are you asking for an answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u128	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. I'm going to go up this time from the last end to the so-called subsidiarity and survival duty that falls on the offspring of someone. Look, these are family code things, this duty of survival, and this clause is fundamentally antisocial. It places the burden of survival on the offspring, although we also have a constitutionally provided social state and we pay taxes for this social state because we do not pay taxes for TES 6 and similar SDs. Here we are dealing with a case where regulations are applied purely non-lifely with one purpose to save on the poor. This is particularly evident at the time when 24 million euros were needed this month to purchase patriots outside the National Assembly, when the SD had no problem. As far as the homeless are concerned, look, these are not people who are enjoying their lives, and we are dealing again with one case that is lost in bureaucrat mills when the social work centre has reduced their financial social assistance. That's something I can't land on unconditionally. In fact, I have morally addressed you with a question to which you have given a little immoral answer, when you have started to list procedures and what is also justified by someone on the road and what needs to be taken into account for those few social fixtures. Then there is financial social assistance or the calculation of the cost of living. My question was: When will this be done, who will be responsible for the delay, and where will you get the funds to raise this financial social assistance that will certainly show up in this calculation? You did not answer this question; and, yes, there was a delay, if not because of the social agreement that requires this conversion in 2016, and six months later we do not have it and continue to be saved in poor people.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Dr. Anya Digger Dark, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u130	About how much money we give and what money is. The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs is constantly trying to ensure level transfers. This is shown by comparative data in terms of both the level of risk of falling poverty and the level of risk of poverty in Slovenia is significantly lower than in some other, much more economically strong countries. You can look at this data, even maybe from Greece you can look at the data, where you have a similar customer, how you can successfully make a reallocation and how the issue of minimum wage is resolved there and also the issue of social transfers and the situation in Greece. Because the simplest thing to say is to put up and expose and question the centres for social work and everything around it, and to say that everything that is done is worthless. However, the fact is that the protective allowance has been amended, that we have several users of the protective allowance, that the minimum pension has been raised, that the pension is a pension regression, this year everyone gets it to be harmonised pensions. The fact is that the money social assistance you keep mentioning has risen from €262 to €292, but forget to mention it, but now you are exposing the new value. That the children's allowances were raised for the fifth and sixth classes to raise state scholarships. In short, a lot of this has been done, but it can always, unfortunately, also find things that could and is still a place for improvement – I never say that – but to point out always only one and compare TES and all the others and politically attack, but it seems unfair to me, but of course, just to expect something from you anyway, anyway.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr. Miha Kordish, procedural request. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u132	Of course, I demand a procedural debate. I mean, if there's anything wrong with this, it's about having hungry poor people in this country, talking about how sorry you are about how sorry you are, because you can't do more, but at the same time vote for an additional 24 million euros to buy fake patriots. That's incorrect. You know what else is wrong? Sitting in the government and working normally in the government and obviously not doing much to get upset over the fact that in three years of your mandate, with two changes in the 80 million euro income scale, you reduce your income to 10 percent of the richest. However, we are still waiting to calculate the minimum cost of living and are still waiting to raise the financial social assistance. And you didn't really raise him as much as he did – you simply brought him back to the level from which he had already been taken. In the United Left, we demand that a real cost calculation be carried out and that it be taken into account when determining the minimum income. It answers the question of when this will be done, who will be responsible for the delay, for more than half a year's delay, and where the funds for raising financial social assistance will come from, and anyway, I did not get it from the Minister, because she rather deals, I don't know, with social policy in Greece than with the answer to my question. We advocate that all citizens of Slovenia live with dignity and that everyone can refuse to take advantage of it. A social aid raise would be the best development and social measure in this respect, because overnight – structurally, if you would like – would systematically eliminate cases of the Marof Trade type, because people should no longer have to resort to these hyper-use practices in order to survive at all. And also because no one would be forced to work as a nickname or in black, capital would be forced to pay higher wages. While in social-democracy, you are consistently walking on the edge of social policy for poverty. So, instead of eliminating poverty, let us leave people in poverty and still be forced to do whatever work they are offered to do, and say that every job is honorable. Such perversions of the old working slogan. And you're just targeting the unemployed, the socially disadvantaged, and so on, just enough to survive physically, not enough to avoid poverty. Here social assistance remains 300 euros below the poverty risk threshold and 90 euros below the physical minimum. This is something that the socialists are not prepared to agree to, and therefore we demand a debate on the answer or non-response of the Minister in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr Kordish, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Tuesday, 30 May, in the framework of the votes. Mr Matjaž Germany will ask the Minister of Public Administration Boris Koprivnikar and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Karl Erjavac.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Chairman. It is also known that one of the challenges of the European Union is to regulate the range of frequencies that range across the border; but attention, AKOS, the Agency for Communications Networks and Services of the Republic of Slovenia has started to implement an intensive practice of reducing areas of coverage of the Slovenian frequency area of Slovenian radio programmes. On the coast, in particular in southern Primorska, from such an environment, we will receive in the future such treatment, protection or potential protection of what should in principle be our national value, protection of what officially reduces the area protected by Slovenia. The Agency will no longer be able to file complaints against the Italian station because there will be no legal basis. The reduction in the area was carried out by the Agency’s radio programmes without even informing it that the procedures were to be carried out in a covert manner. When the Slovenian radio stations pointed out the contraction of the Slovenian frequency space, the agency began to carry out oral treatments, which are carried out in such a way that the Agency does not transmit the key facts to the participants in the process. This means that participants only perform relevant facts at oral hearing, with Slovenian frequencies being public good and there is no basis in any law for the Republic of Slovenia to give up its rights of protection for its frequencies in favour of Italy and Croatia. According to some lawyers, the illegal reduction of Slovenian public goods in favour of neighbouring countries has all the signs of a crime under Article 348 of the Penal Code. That is why I am interested – I see that Minister Koprivnik is not here: How will the Government take action in this case?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr. Karl Erjavec, Minister, apparently you will answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Thank you, too, for the question. As it is said, the question before me is also addressed to the Minister of Public Administration. I will probably find it very difficult to respond qualitatively, at least in the part concerning the Agency for Communications Networks and Services, especially because the material I received does not mention the problem of shrinking this area. It's so hard to comment on this. But I can say, as Foreign Minister, that this kind of behavior by the Agency seems strange to me, and I will also check whether these claims are true. However, given that you mention that oral treatment is already under way, I will actually learn what is going on in this area. However, as Minister of Foreign Affairs, I can give a general answer to what is the problem of these frequencies and what has actually been done to prevent, in particular, those disturbances that come from Italian radio stations as well as television stations. The problem at international level is that Italy says it has not implemented these agreements – it is said to be international agreements at the level of the International Telecommunications Union. These international agreements regulate procedures for the placement of new frequencies, and these international agreements also stipulate that consensus should be obtained on potentially affected countries. Italy simply says that it has not implemented these agreements, has not adopted them and therefore does not have to follow this procedure. This is why an inter-ministerial government commission was set up in 2012 to deal with this problem. Even today, this Commission still exists and is taking certain measures. In this regard, I can say that a procedure has been initiated before the European Commission. This is a mediation procedure in which it was achieved that Italy has adopted a special law and in 2016 this law regulated matters relating to the television part of the radio spectrum. As far as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is concerned, we have given three diplomatic notes on this issue, the last of which was given in January 2017. I must say that since I am Minister for Foreign Affairs, that is, since 2012, within the coordination committee of ministers – it is the coordination led by both foreign ministers, and various ministers from both countries have been involved in this coordination, from the Minister of Environment, Infrastructure, the economy and so on, so that I do not list everyone – this topic has always been the subject of discussion. I can say that it is planned to have this coordination commission of ministers of Italy-Slovenia here in Slovenia somewhere for parliamentary holidays this year, and we will, of course, deal with this problem in particular and highlight it. Let me also say that in this regard it is foreseen for the month of June, this is said to be a short meeting, including in Italy, at the expert level. I must also say that it has been very difficult for a long time to achieve that they even agreed that such meetings would take place. It was the last one, I think, in 2014. Civil actions against these disruptive radio stations, through this agency, have also been brought in this regard. However, I would also like to point out that a proposal for a law to be held in the National Assembly these days is a proposal for a new Law on Electronic Communications, and that there are also certain articles that would allow for measures to be taken when it comes to interference by foreign radio and television stations.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u137	Mr Matjaž German, are you asking for a supplement to the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u138	Minister Erjavec, thank you for the correct answer. It's true, I've specifically involved you in order to make you aware of your activities. First of all, I miss Minister Koprivnik. I do not know that he would apologize, and I am surprised that there is no minister here in such an important response and everything that is going on in this regard. In fact, the darkness is relatively delicate. I don't know who decides. In the philosophy of thinking that the most effective use of frequency is such that it is not necessary at all. If not needed, then, experience teaches us that Italian radio stations immediately fill an empty gap. This is how we live in Primorsk, and I do not know where the current story begins and where this story ends, so I would expect answers from Minister Koprivnik to this topic, because if we do not act in favour of the defence of Slovenian frequencies, then in a delicate area along the border we will also lose the signal and the Slovenian language. Mr. Minister Erjavec, I'm going to take this opportunity because you're already here, and I'm going to ask you: Is there an answer with neighbouring Croatia or Italy on the basis of which the Republic of Slovenia must reduce its frequency in order to prevent complaints or complaints from being lodged in the event of an intrusion of foreign stations into the Slovenian frequency space? I know the question is somewhat provocative. You can only answer yes or no, but it wasn't meant for you, it was meant for your colleague. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Minister Karl Erjavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u140	Thank you very much. First of all, I must actually apologize to the Minister of Public Administration, Mr Koprivnik. He's at an international conference and he asked me yesterday if I could take over the whole question. However, given that you have highlighted one part that is not in the material and I am not familiar with it, I have done this task instead. But I can see that on this issue these things will have to be cleared up, and I am also personally interested. Because given that I will lead this group, the coordination of ministers between Italy and Slovenia, and also open up this issue, it is right that I am fully aware of what is going on. I am not aware of this as regards the conclusion of an agreement. If such a situation were to occur, we would certainly not be inclined to do so, but we will check it out, because, as we say, we must prepare the material well and the starting point for this meeting, which will be in the context of the coordination of Slovenian and Italian Ministers.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Dr. Ange Logar will ask the Minister of Justice a question. Goran Klemenčich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u142	Thank you, Chairman. The Commission of Inquiry is faced with the method and work of law enforcement agencies, as well as the judiciary, in banking crime, practically daily to identify abuses in the banking system. I will not say anything new if I say that I am not satisfied with the intensity and also with the extent of the prosecution of banking crime. In view of the fact that the Minister of Justice sometimes directly comments on individual judgments, I believe that he will also give his view in this regard of the prosecution of banking crime, if not the other because he also has personal family experience in this regard, given that his wife was preparing damages and also criminal charges in the case of Factor Bank. In fact, I am referring to a recent judgment concerning Pein when the limited liability company was convicted by the court or the director of this company for damaging its own company, i.e. a limited liability company. In this respect, I ask the Minister: Where is the parallel to the prosecution of banking crime? The company, which was damaged by the Director and had traffic of around EUR 300,000 in its best time and for which the taxpayers have not paid even the euro, was found that the Director, a sole entrepreneur, should not harm his company, because if I simplify, it must also take into account this private company as a public good. Now, while we have in illegal judgments some legal practice or jurisprudence that is established, where, for example, Judge Maja Letonja for damage to the bank amounting to EUR 8 million, which was finally paid by taxpayers, the judgment finds that the bank's management not only acted with due diligence, but even acted beyond the bank's administration's obligation to pay credit to Mercury at a time when the indicators were already very poor and no other bank was offering credit to the company. In this respect, I ask for these double criteria and whether this case law, which is now established by this Supreme Court judgment, applies only to parts and divisions: Will this practice be passed on to banking crime, or society, heritage and other institutions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u143	The word is mag's Minister of Justice. Goran Klemenčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u144	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear Member, Dr. Anja Logar, you have asked me a question that is different from the question that has been announced in its entirety. The question that we have received is: "The Minister responsible for justice will ask how it assesses the fulfilment of the commitment to consistently prosecute banking crime under the coalition agreement." In part, you also pointed this out in the question, and then you asked something specific. It's not at all that you can't ask that. The problem is, I don't know that decision. If you could tell me in advance, I could study it and I could, I'll tell you, give you a credible answer. I know, I've heard, we've been talking about changing the case-law of the Supreme Court in recent times with regard to one-person societies, but I didn't even know it was about this society, what the company's name was and what the real basis was. Therefore, if you ask a question or want a written answer, I will be happy to give it to you in this regard. But as for the general question, or the comment, because you said you were meeting yourself, and banking crime was. Like you, I am not satisfied with the way things are going in the country and how fast they are going, but we probably have a slightly different reason or perspective on this. As the Ministry of Justice or as the Government, of course, we can only create systemic conditions for the prosecution and investigation of banking crime. And in three areas, we can't investigate, we can't prosecute, we can't condemn. Thank God, those times are over. You can't do that. We can change legislation, we can provide staff and material resources and we can take care of education and training and in this field. I know you won't agree with this, but maybe once you sit down to look at the numbers, and I don't think there's a government in the last 20 years or a parliament that would do so much in this area in all three of these data. Under some you have also put your voice, such as in the field of normative change. And I'm just gonna go for a quick pass. We have increased the penalties for corruption crimes, extended the limitation periods for corruption crimes from 10 to 20 years, strengthened the effectiveness of prosecution of tax evasion and abuse of internal information. This week, you confirmed the change of intent regarding the commission of a crime of abuse of position or representation in economic activity, we limited the possibility of abuse of the institution of discharge of obligations under personal bankruptcy, we removed the legal obstacles to the allocation of experts with special knowledge to the specialised state prosecutor's office, we set stricter conditions for the decision to impose a prison sentence for health reasons, we have taken a number of measures to relieve the courts of administrative offences and to increase the burden of judges in the district courts. Before you this year, probably before vacation or immediately autumn, there will be extensive changes to the criminal procedure, including proposals made by your commission regarding access to banking secrets, the dissemination of a catalogue of criminal offences for which specific investigation measures can be applied. We tighten the conditions for unjustified absences in the main proceedings, more efficient service of judicial writings, we limit long-term judicial investigations and we will be able to discuss this, as said when the matter is mature or is mature, it is already in the parliamentary procedure. As far as human resources and organisational measures are concerned, that's the other thing. No government has ever pledged as many new state prosecutors and prosecutors as it is. 15. 9. In 2015, 30 new prosecutors took an oath. This represents a 15% increase in the staffing area since the beginning of 2015. For the first time, the specialized state prosecutor's office has a specialised civil confiscation department and is perfectly complete. Last year, the Ministry of Justice from its own staff quotas, we gave up our own people in order to give up our quotas, that we gave up five quotas to the Office of the Attorney General for the employment of five new analysts. They didn't execute them. I hope that the new Attorney General will be able to take advantage of this. I believe he will. Currently, the largest investment in updating the information equipment of prosecutors has been under way since its independence. It sounds a little bit, but you know, there aren't many prosecutors either. In early May 2017, the prosecution received 130 new laptops and by the end of the year we will be supplying 525 new personal computers with brand new software. In the organisation of the Centre for Justice Education, for the first time last year, at my explicit request, a focused series of seminars and workshops in the field of economic crime was launched, which was not on the agenda. Why – there are different questions, because also from the point of view, because. [[…]] We went to study visits in Austria, Iceland, as well as you know. Anyway, if I cut in. I'm not satisfied with the way things are in this area, you know how slowly this ship is turning around, we're trying and we're going to keep going, we could be better, I agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u145	Dr. Ange Logar, would you like a word to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Those 35 computers you delivered will probably help, but my question was not intended to criticise the work of the Justice Department. You have in the coalition contract, I think, written somehow, an unforgivable battle or persecution of the culprits for the formation of a bank hole. We thoroughly combed the portfolios of Slovenian banks and found that there had been serious crime, that there had been damage, financing of criminal associations, and so on, and in some normal society such acts were sanctioned. This has been sanctioned in Iceland, sanctions have been imposed elsewhere and sanctions must also be imposed in Slovenia if we are to maintain confidence in the rule of law. See, at the hearings, we heard witnesses directly responsible as directors of individual banks for the injury of taxpayers over 100 million euros, over 100 million euros, and not even a conversation with the criminals concerned. But when we had a snowball affair here on YouTube, a colleague of Anjo Bah's called a criminalist one week later when it was posted on YouTube. Now we have a sort of banal thing and a real thing, and they're, you could say, two forms of persecution. Where millions have really run out, things are moving very slowly. But where there are some minor matters, the rule of law is extremely current. And hold, slander, 240th Article, and I, too, supported it, possible conspiracies, change, of course, which will only apply in advance. And if it applies only in advance, I hope that this will not be an excuse, that this is precisely evidence that the previous legislation cannot be condemned. In order to avoid this, the Commission of Inquiry also proposed in the conclusions of the partial report the establishment of a specialised court. One proposal we have made regarding the amendment of the ZUKSB, the 33rd Article, an authentic explanation, has been taken into account by the Ministry of Finance and we have supported it this week. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u147	Minister Klemenčič, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u148	Thank you very much. I think that if we were to peel this onion like I say, even if we weren't on your side of these political reservations, we could have a normal conversation. You can't say that 35 computers will help if the computers are all 655. But you know, that's not fair. That's the first thing. It's the other thing. I'm glad you supported the change of plans. And I agree that the prosecution would probably be different if this were arranged differently from the beginning. But the Penal Code was adopted by your government, and 2008 it came in. I know it wasn't possible at the time. I believe it wasn't malicious. But the fact is that this solution, which is different from Iceland, which is different from Germany, came in then under Minister Sturm and under the government of Janez Janša. And, of course, what we've fixed can apply back. Special Court, I agree with you, we have been talking about him for a long time, not only are we working on it, but here you will have to agree, we can accept at an emergency session tomorrow, so that there will be a specialized court, that it must exist. If it is not very well thought out and prepared, if it does not very well determine what happens in cases currently ahead of specialised departments, we will do absolutely more damage than benefits. In order to be able to talk about a specialised court, there must be human resources and material conditions, and we guarantee this, we have provided this in the budget. We are now working with the Supreme Court on how to lay down transitional provisions so that the cases that are currently under way will not be the cases that you understand because you are aware of, the change of the Senate, because now you are working on this investigative committee for so long that you know how the proceedings are proceeding. [[…]] That must be preposterous. I hope I'll see that again. But as far as priority is concerned and who is being questioned, when is the next time, I think I would agree more than once, as it seems, but you can't direct it, I can't direct it. This is what we are wondering when we are having a debate here in the National Assembly on the reports of the detection and prosecution authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u149	Mr Marko Ferluga will ask the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Dr Anji Kopač Dark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u150	Thank you for your word. Greetings to the Minister and the Ministers! I've tracked data that may indicate some discrimination in this understanding, namely that two unemployed, such as a man and a woman with two children, get some social support of EUR 1,000 800 net, while we have two employees with two children, with a minimum wage of so much absurdity, that they get less. So I want to know: Does this information hold true in receiving social transfers, and is it somehow limited in time? Why do I ask that? In fact, there is a fear that the country itself actually supports more those who do not want to actively seek employment. And there is one fear that these people who receive relatively great social support – and don't blame me, I'm not against social support, I'm not, I'm saying, like my colleague, ultra socialist Mr. Kordish, but I think I'm quite moderate in these matters. That's what I want to know: Is it considered that this discrimination between those who are employed and receive a minimum wage and those who are not employed would make the difference somehow less visible to the unemployed who receive it? And the other thing that interests me: Is it thought in this direction that when the state demands that money, in the notes, it requires those who get it that somehow the State is being returned by helping, for example, in the home of the pensioners, by regulating public areas or something like that? Whether there is any thought in the ministry, it is said that in some way they return at least some share of the state to the citizens. However, we both probably agree that there is a need to change our thinking on the granting of these support, so that it is somehow optimal for all stakeholders in this process, so that the paid work and unpaid work do not make too much difference. I think we agree here. But it's about not being able to tell the truth that it's not worth doing because there's support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u151	Minister Anja Kopač Dark, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u152	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear Member Marko Ferruga, thank you for asking. Today I have a package on the subject of social assistance, and within this I am in a similar position to all three of them. I'm gonna start with a little different ending now. As we have seen before, the amount of minimum income that is based on the calculation of the cost of living is problematic in a basket of vital cost of living, which is then divided into short-term costs, where the vital cost of living is included. But when it comes to not being able to work longer, that is, for individuals who are unable to work, the use of furniture and other more permanent goods is also taken into account in this basket, if I say so. This is a methodology that is entirely within the competence of economists who calculate it. And that was the basis for calculating minimum income. The minimum income is then the basis for calculating monetary social assistance and a protective allowance. And these are the most basic when you call social support. While what you have pointed out before is a family issue, where not only social support is mixed, it is family policy. And the very important transfer that the family receives at various levels, depending on how much income it has at its disposal, is primarily a child's allowance. The children’s allowance is essentially what reduces the risk of child poverty, which is essentially linked to the origin of the family. And here we are actually among the more successful countries, even though we are in crisis, we have to admit, we have increased the proportion of poverty among children, which is absolutely alarming, and so we have also made a number of changes, that we treated single-parent families differently and so on. In theory it is always so that we follow the minimum cost of living on one side and on the other side of the work. So that basically work has to be paid and someone can't be better off with social assistance and other transfers than what comes out of the income from work. And here we come up with the question of the economy, what I always say, the added value of the economy, and the question of average wages, that's basic, and then, in view of that, the state's regulation of minimum wages, and here we are all close to 300 euros, 600 euros, a thousand euros. You must take into account that two thirds of the employees are under the average wage in the Republic of Slovenia, which amounts to EUR 1000. So two-thirds of the employees have between €614 and €50. Then, within the framework of regulating the amount of the child supplement, and especially taking into account the fact that if it is a family with more children and no income, they get 120 euros for each child. Of course, you can't compare that to someone who works and doesn't. This is how they get closer inside, the small differences between the unemployed family and the family that works, especially in families with multiple children, because the 120 euro child allowance affects this most. But if we look at a family with two children, the difference between those who receive a minimum wage and at the same time enforce all possible transfers, because they have the right to do so, and the subsidy has 417.69 euros more income than the family in which both parents are unemployed and exercise all the rights and facilities available to them. However, these calculations do not take into account the possibility of rent subsidies received if justified. So the difference is something, but of course the question is whether work is black and all that it is, but these are some illegal practices that are a matter of control. I always say that the role of each individual institution and, in particular, the available income by FURS and other institutions should also be seen. In fact, all experts note that with passive social policy alone, transfer policy cannot go higher because of the situation in the labour market. That is why social activation and social activation programmes are so important, which in fact gives people the opportunity to be encouraged to change their attitude towards work and give these basic social and employment competences so that we can bring them closer to active employment policies. Within this we are also very much thinking about possible exits, so when someone will be included for 11 months in a long-term social activation programme, where, then, employment opportunities. We are also considering adapting existing public works so that in the local environment these people can work by different operators within public institutions and will [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u153	Mr. Marko Ferruga, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u154	Thank you. Thank you, Minister, I agree. I think we're getting more and more into the fact that we're going to have to start all these supplements somehow stop separating and put them on the common denominator, so that there's going to be a lot of transparency. Now the children's allowances and all other social transfers lose focus. I also agree with you that what you mentioned last time is actually to see that people who will receive social assistance and social transfers also begin to think and know that something still needs to be returned to the country, in terms of some work on public surfaces, as I said, assistance at the home of pensioners or in health homes or anywhere, such as some kind of support, that this money is not self-evident, that it is only given as it is. Far from getting this social support, far from earning it not for these and other reasons, it is also about giving the attitude to work somehow. Since we have a lot of people, they probably also tell you that some people are actually clinging to this social assistance and that it's literally not worth doing. And I would appeal to you to try to get it to the end somehow and to show that we are some country that appreciates work and absolutely appreciates social assistance when it is, when it is and when it is needed. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u155	Minister, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u156	This would certainly be most appropriate in an ideal situation. I always say that I believe in solidarity, but this one should be responsible – so that anyone who can't really go to the aid that would then be provided to him. But unfortunately, we do not live in such ideal situations, and by law, if we look at it, receiving financial social assistance is conditioned by the individual’s willingness to accept any work. So there's no longer a security guard like, if you're getting a cash refund, you're in a employment facility where your availability for work, if I say so, is limited to the appropriateness and appropriateness of the job that is linked to your education. When you are a recipient of financial social assistance, you must accept every job offered. We are now introducing a link between the information systems between the Employment and Social Work Centres, through social activation, so that these data are available. But there is also much debate, for example, if we listen to the position of the Faculty of Social Work, the question is where to preserve the dignity of people. Here is a very thin border where this paternalistic attitude of the state, when you tell someone who doesn't have, who is in trouble, what has to solve everything, how to maintain this dignity, and at the same time don't let him in some of his situations where people always get used to what we are and after a certain time we don't have this own to change things, how to encourage him to be. Here, in social activation, we have many debates with expertise, whether it is appropriate to condition that you are a recipient of monetary social assistance and if your adviser believes that it is appropriate for you to participate in the social activation programme, that you must accept it, otherwise a sanction is also imposed in terms of monetary social assistance. Here in the State Council, a strong position was expressed when we had this debate that this should not be the case. My personal opinion is that encouragement must be because it is simply otherwise difficult for people, but it is necessary to maintain some dignity and leave within here also to a certain extent discretion when it comes to cases or that protection is necessary. [[…]] In short, it is necessary to empower social workers, if we say so, to give them enough time to be able to people after discretion, but basically it has to be for work, and the state has to offer programmes so that we can get these people away, because increasing the proportion of long-term recipients of the DSP is the biggest problem if we look at or the degree of risk of poverty, we are not problematic here, and I am most concerned. Social activation is indeed such an important element that we are now introducing and also with the reorganisation of the cents and with all this and this connection to the institution, where we will have to move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u157	Mr Daniel Krivec will ask a question from the Minister without a department responsible for Slovenians in place and around the world, Mr Gorazd Žmavc. Here you go, Mr. Guilty.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u158	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings to the Minister, the Minister, the colleagues and colleagues! The Minister will probably agree with me that Slovenian language is a very important anchor for Slovenians both in place and in the world and one of the important factors for the preservation of Slovenia. That's why I'm asking the Minister: Do they hold information that Austria intends to cancel both the Slovenianist in Vienna and the Slovenianist in Graz on behalf of the so-called reforms that are supposed to reduce the Slovenian program? In fact, the professors there are opposed. Now, given that a number of things have changed in Koroška lately, this may also be a very negative signal, and given that there have been a lot of these in Austrian Koroška, including with the government delegation, I wonder whether there have been any conversations or recent information about this. Has the Office responded to this information in terms of preventing such procedures? And second of all, I'm interested in one thing. Given that a press question was also addressed to your office on this by the weekly Democracy and that the answer was to refer to an information officer or to answer certain questions through the forms of an information officer, it seems to me that this was some strange practice, since so far journalists have been the ones who normally communicated with the ministries. Above all, because democracy has a lot to say about the issue of celibacy, this response from the office has been even more unusual. That's why I'm also interested in: Is this some new ministry practice on this? Is this even some kind of normal response from ministries because it's actually some kind of additional bureaucracy? If we look at a form that requires insight into this information, it's kind of humiliating for journalists. So, I'm asking for both of your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u159	Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u160	Dear Vice-President, honourable Members, distinguished colleague of the Minister! Dear Member Daniel Krivec, on this question that you have addressed to me, whether they hold this information that Austria intends, on behalf of these reforms, to cancel both the Slovenians in Vienna and in Graz, I must tell you that the question also belongs to the Ministry of Education, but I am aware that we are both extremely aware of this importance, as you have said in the introduction, that Slovenian language is of great importance to foreigners and Slovenes in the world, and that our policy is that we are actually maintaining lecturerates, and that our policy is also to work on building new lecturerates. So we're going this way and we're going very, very hard on this path. As a result, I was so much more sensitive to this question of yours, and also to the letter that circulated the informal letter to consider some changes, I also entrusted the Ambassador to the Republic of Austria, Mr Rahten. On 24 May, he interviewed the Rector and the Rector of the University of Vienna, and I must be pleased to find that he received this reply on 24. 5. and he also provided me with this reply that the Rector is that they have both ensured that this does not hold, that they remain in this policy and that they ensure that Slovenianism remains in Vienna, in Graz and in Celovac, but that, of course, a smaller extent is the reason for the certain coordination and coordination they introduce within the university, the real thing of the internal organisation of the university. In fact, they will do everything in their power to fully implement the programme. At the same time, I must say that on the question whether Mrs Elizabeth Jenko, who has sent a letter on these issues, has actually still been employed at the university. Yes, but it has been redistributed to some area of didactics, and now it is regularly occupied by Professor Emmerich Kelih, or Koroška Slovenec, and that activities are running normally. At the same time I am, so I think it's very good that we've responded to this, and it's good that we've done this official information interview to get this confirmation from the ambassador. I must say that I am pleased that I was yesterday, the one on this 60-year-old Slovenian school with both presidents. We have also expressed our satisfaction here that this school system of bilingualism and Slovenian high school is very important, and that lectorates are of great importance. But I also asked the Ministry of Education, because it is an area for which it is responsible to provide me with an opinion. Brenčič also replied to me that she was actually in contact with Dr. Svetlik, who also transmitted the letter 16. 1. to the rectory of Vienna, and then also got 28. 2. answer that procedures are proceeding normally. So I think that, as far as this is concerned, we can be relatively calm. But there was nothing wrong with us reacting. I think that our policy is, therefore, also your question, as soon as you asked me the question here and the letter that was also circulating, I was paying attention to this and I think that this reaction is a good one, and it gives us an option, because the rector also gave us the answer that he is thinking of meeting with the new rector of the university in June and that they will continue these interviews or these activities. However, I have to say, my mission is also this and I have a great desire, I will be visiting Brussels on June 6th, and I will also visit the rectorate, and I also have a meeting with the head of the university, which is to spread this idea with these rectors. Also on the basis of last year's visit with President Pahor in Argentina, I then also had a visit to Sao Paulo, where today the ambassador tells me that they are leading activities around to do everything possible so that this university in Sao Paulo can be included in the possibility of establishing a rectorate of Slovenian. But as for the press question, I have to say that we are [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u161	Thank you, Minister. Time's up. Daniel Krivec, you have the floor to complete the answer, to request a supplement to the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u162	Yes, thank you very much to the Minister for this part of the answer. I am also satisfied with the answer, and I am also glad that the matter would be said to have started and that the answers from both universities are positive. It is said that this information may have been just some misinformation. However, it is important that we respond to such information as soon as possible. That is why I am even more surprised that you have responded in this way to the question posed by journalists and sent them to the forms that exist to be formally requested for information, given that you said that it was already February the answer of the university that talked about this matter being resolved. In fact, this form requires a journalist to determine on the form whether or not this information is already publicly available or whether this facility is even committed and so on. I mean, I'd like to hear your answer: Is it now your office's new practice that journalists who ask for some information must, in accordance with some procedure that is not the most common for the journalistic profession, address you or in the future will still have to open your office and share information somehow at a level that was before?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u163	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u164	The honourable Member, as far as journalistic questions are concerned, we have always been open, answered and answered all the questions. We may not have had these clear answers at the time, and we actually wanted or were exposed to a greater definition of interest and the content of the answer. Otherwise, we would like to see questions and answers in particular on the subject, which is mainly from our area. All these questions will be answered both now and in the future. As for this issue of our lecture, however, I think that Mr Daniel Krivec – thank you for being united here – we are building on this. Our policy will be to build and open new tutors, because this can be one of the greatest guarantees, that in fact we provide with lectures the quality of learning the Slovenian language. This can also make Slovenia bigger. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u165	Mr Primož Hainz will ask the Minister for the Environment and Space of Mrs Irena Majcen a question. Here you go, Mr. Hainz.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u166	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Hello, Minister Irena Majcen. There was an extraordinary event at Vrhnika, which should not have actually happened. There's been a fire at Kemis, where they're burning very dangerous waste. There has been a fire, there has been a fire, and of course there has been an ecological disaster, which, of course, could be even greater if the firefighters hadn't done their job well. The consequences could be much worse, but they are serious consequences for human health, children's health and, of course, the whole favo and flora of the ecologically affected part of the municipality of Vrhnika, which is, of course, the edge of Ljubljana Barja, that is, the edge of Nature 2000, and, of course, in the immediate vicinity of the park of Ljubljana Barja. Kemis has been hiding the data from the start. I say, I'm sure, no matter what they say. Some responsible authorities have been mitigating information, and under this influence of the mitigation of this information I myself, 11 days ago there was a fire, I put this issue together a week ago. If I were to ask it today, if I were to put it together today, because we just postponed this agenda for a week, I would certainly also ask the Ministry of Defence, including the Ministry of Health, including the Ministry of Agriculture, and today I have a question for you. That's why I'm not going to ask that question I was asking back then, but simply, Madam Minister: Where are we right now? If you could give us some basic information?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u167	Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u168	Dear Vice President, honourable Members, honourable Members! Was this event on Vrhnika presented at the beginning of the event on the basis of the then known data? We agree with this, but it is true that later developments have shown and the Ministry of the Environment and Space has activated all its available forces to help and participate in this event, as far as it is within our competence. Data problems – today at four is a press conference at Vrhnnik, and data will be presented, which will also be more detailed than all data so far will satisfy the locals. Unfortunately, I do not have this data alone, because in implementation I only have data which is 16. 5. 2017 afternoon, this is about 18 hours after the outbreak of fire, the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Environment and the National Laboratory for Health, Environment and Food has been involved since then. But it was mainly the Tojnica, which is the watercourse, which is the detection of water pollution. At the very beginning of the fire a unit was activated, a mobile unit called the ELME Institute of Josef Štefan. I find it difficult to assess whether it was contaminated or not at the time this mobile unit took samples from the Tojnica stream. Somehow this contamination of fat guests, oil guests, would say that this is actually the sum of all the substances that have been created in burning and should actually be stopped in pools, hunting pools of wastewater, so when exactly the filling of this vessel and the flow into the watercourse has occurred, a further investigation may be shown. 16. 5. The Tojnica watercourse was already heavily polluted by the arrival of our services on the ground, so the Directorate for Waters of the Republic of Slovenia is immediately activated. The concessionaire of VGP Drava Ptuj, who has a concession to clean inland waters and prevent pollution of water and coastal land, was invited. A proper mechanism and entry into the water has arrived. Although it must be said that at this time, with the capacity they had at their disposal, Kemis had only approached the cleaning. However, since it was initially estimated that these guests were 10 cubic metres away, at the time of their extraction, 70 cubic metres of these guests were measured, Drava Ptuj also came to assist SVOM, namely the Coast and Sea Cleaning Service and Hydrotechnic, which itself has a water management concession in the area. These fat guests had to be mechanically removed, which was also carried out by Friday when larger precipitation was forecast. I took a look at this watercourse myself on Thursday afternoon, or toward the evening, at which time they installed a pump with drainage pipes to make a circuit around the area where the stream was most polluted to approximately 100 square meters. And it was this work that prevented the Tojnica stream from polluting Ljubljana, where the extent of pollution would be far more catastrophic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u169	Mr. Primoz Hainz, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, I know that the chapters we can talk about here are great and I don't say for an hour. What I would stress is, of course, a matter of human health. In fact, the problem was that the children had been playing in that sand for two days and they said it was okay. Firefighters will probably need to be taken care of, some are affected, or some may have consequences, and so on. Besides, citizens have problems, too. We could also talk about responsibility. Here, of course, I must say that Kemis is an unequivocally responsible company, that is, as part of Gorenje, of course. Of course, the congregation is responsible. Even those state authorities that have over-settled. But what I want to say is, Vrhnika is a municipality that had major development problems when people lost their jobs and, of course, moral identity, the Vrhnika leather industry and some other companies. But Vrhnika then created some new identity of the cultural and ecological center on this part of the bar. That's what's coming down now. Sesuva because they found that they have not only Chemix, they also have Gramex, they have Silika, they have an extremely strong military radar, which of course radiates, and, of course, the nearby Phenolithics in nearby Borovnica. And, of course, in some way, the state and businesses will have to repay these people in particular for some compensation, whatever, because here they are morally, individually, if you want, collapsing the story of their own place, which they have put on a completely new place. And I conclude, of course, that I will not then go through the Rules of Procedure, and I wanted to suggest that we have a debate in the National Assembly, but that, in the meantime, the colleagues of the Social Democratic Party have called a meeting of the National Assembly on this subject. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u171	Minister of Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u172	Thank you. I agree that firefighters have done the most in their interventions to prevent further or even greater accidents. Here's just to thank and congratulate them. A lot of units have been activated. The fact is, the participants who performed these cleaning works in the Tojnica River received praise from some 30 of them. I commend them, and they've done this work unselfishly, and they're kind of forgotten. Indeed, all this amount of 70 cubic metres of these guests, poured into Ljubljana, would mean that, of course, all these guests would pollute not only Ljubljanica, Savo and then all the way to the spill. With regard to operating in some environments, I cannot comment on this. The fact is that municipal policy is governed by the mayors and the efforts that citizens want from their municipality, of course, are legitimate requirements, and the mayor and the municipal council that decides on matters will, of course, also make the appropriate decision. As far as I'm concerned, there are 210 of them in Slovenia with an environmental permit. Of these, there are 65 facilities, which are also committed under the SEVESO Directive, where additional measures must be taken to avoid similar situations. And in this part, the inspection will also review the data, i.e. I agree with you, but this event should not occur, but if there is a fire, of course it should be stopped or extinguishing should be so successful that such a dimension would not occur. A socially responsible company will primarily provide for prevention, which is yet to be achieved in today's technological developments. It is also possible, with appropriate technological solutions, to prevent such a fire from occurring in this case and to demonstrate the ongoing investigation, so the results of the investigation are not yet known. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u173	Mrs Marija Bacič, you have the floor to request that you ask the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič, who is absent, so I ask you whether you want a written or oral answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u174	Thank you. I want an oral response, then I'll tell you. A year and a half ago, I had already asked the Minister a question about nine-year education, evaluation and expectations for the future, in particular in terms of assessments, overincreasing, over-increasing for children as well as burdensome for parents. I have received an answer that the importance of the school is not only learning, but strengthening the child's growth, education, participation in society and participation in the wider community, that is, socialisation. From the point of view of legislation, we have not contributed anything to this goal in the past year and a half. A while ago, however, the distinguished minister announced changes in the national knowledge check. You intend to introduce him to the third grade of elementary school. Although the idea is not new, first of all, it has raised a lot of negative reactions among teachers. This is mainly the question of how much burden children in the first triad can bear. For the first class has long been no longer a compulsory small school, such as the idea of the founders of a nine - year - old. Expectations are significantly higher, in terms of writing, in terms of calculation, even though, as the president of the teaching association pointed out in a recent interview, children do not yet have mastered or basic skills in teaching, so sitting in peace teaching, tracking frontal instruction, undeveloped graphomotors and could still be listed. A few days ago, you were surprised by the publication of the draft of the Law on Primary School and proposals that had already been rejected in the past and with which you would make children more difficult in the first class with a compulsory foreign language and in the seventh class with a compulsory second language. I believe that we should follow the global trend after students are burdened, after increasing selectivity, both at this formal level and at the substantive level, by updating excessive curricula. With proposals for amendments to the Basic School Act, we are going in the opposite direction. That's why I'm asking: In fact, what is the point of introducing new burdens into the first triad with mandatory national knowledge verification? What analyses can you support? I also believe that if we add something, we should also take something away. I want an oral response. Please, at the next meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u175	Thank you very much. That's what we took note of. Mr Jan Škoberne, you have the floor to ask the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Peter Gasperšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u176	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! As you probably know, the Energy Agency has approved an increase in the price of thermal energy for the supply of the Shaleska Valley, for a total of 57 % from this year to this year of the established cost prices paid by residents and residents. This happened after the mediation table between the municipal company, the municipality and the Šostanj Termoelectrica, and consequently the HSE, on the other hand, was presented too much, and in our opinion and in my opinion, especially in the view of the people from the valley, an arbitrary range of prices for heat ranging from €14 per gigajoules of heat energy to 26. The price eventually accepted by the agency is €17 for gigajoules, which is, in comparison to 26, you imagine an unreasonablely high difference. The question I'm referring to you is: How can this even happen, given that the country should have a uniform model for determining the price of heat energy? And in the following order: Do you find it acceptable that neither the agency nor the Thermoelectrica Šostjanj and consequently Holding the Slovenian Power Plants of Local Communities, residents and residents, do they want to disclose how the input data were determined, who revised the input data, what the set of costs involved is, and how the price currently determined is comparable to the price of heat produced by Toplarna Ljubljana, which is the heat produced on purpose, with the price of thermal energy, which in the case of Thermoelectrica Šostanj is a by-product? In some ways, it forces us even to think about having an existing thermal power plant, in order to provide people with a reasonable price of thermal energy in our valley, to set our own greenhouse, which is environmentally totally unreasonable, and in terms of costs this moment the only measure we can take to prevent, in some way, a completely unreasonable increase of 57%, in terms of the price that is being paid today. And let me add that the Commission of the State Council, to quote, has expressed its surprise at the approval of the increase in the price of heat. It points out, however, that it is not clear on the basis of what methodology and whose input data the Agency has decided to confirm this increase, for which the measure is full, we cannot even know what the content of the decision is and who has judged it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u177	Minister of Infrastructure Dr. Peter Gasperšič, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u178	Thank you, President, for your word. Thank you also for the question raised, honourable Member Jan Škoberne. The Energy Agency shall be responsible for this legislative framework for the pricing of remote heat supply systems. In doing so, she is independent, given this basis by the Energy Act. These heat prices are also regulated by the monopolistic, natural monopolies of heat suppliers in remote systems. And this system is implemented through a specific methodology prepared by the Energy Agency. And this methodology or act on this methodology was also prepared by the Agency at the beginning of this year and has also entered into force, this act. By this methodology, the Agency shall, in essence, determine the starting prices, which shall be used as the maximum average prices. So the agency uses this methodology to determine something that represents some kind of ceiling. Under this, the distributor and the regulated manufacturer must then move with their calculations for a specific case. In this particular case, therefore, there has been a change this year and the Agency has in fact given its consent to these changes. On the basis of the warnings we received from both Velenje Municipality and from your side, we have then responded to the Ministry and sent a letter to both the heat supplier and the agency itself to present us with all these detailed calculations or bases on which the price of heat was determined. For, as you yourself have already said, this price must be based on a cost base rather than on any other basis. It is also true that in the case of Velenje, this heat is, to a large extent, waste heat in electricity production. Here, we can say, for some way a large cogeneration of electricity and heat and here the eligible costs are probably somewhat different, on different bases they have to be calculated as in some other heat room, where in fact the heat needs to be produced and consumed by the energy. The situation here is different. This must also be expressed in the final price, and we expect these calculations to be justified. We expect the agency to do its job here. Once again, however, it is exclusively the responsibility of the agency, so provided for by law, and here it is independent and independent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u179	Mr. Jan Škoberne, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u180	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. Thank you very much for your answer. I must point out that I am pleased that, at least on this side, on the government side of the people of the Silesian Valley, this is not just about Velenje, but also about Šostanj, at least in the case of heat, does not leave alone, and that at least someone understands that, in the case of a lift which was likely to last in the time of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and hyperinflation, we have the right to know. What's crucial to me is that we all understand, and here I ask you again, at least in three points. First of all, the input data must be disclosed and who revised it. Whether they are comparatively fair in terms of what the energy law also requires – equal treatment and fair payment – must be disclosed. Finally, at least on the site of the Holding of Slovenian Power Plants it is necessary to take into account what the energy law says that the polluter must pay and that in this part the environment must also receive a proportional reparation for the damage caused. If I end up so simple. Of course, we understand that the prices of heat energy as it has been so far, we will probably not be paying any more, but we do not understand that the range between 11 and 26 can be without explanation, and here I understand that we have a similar position and that, in the future, we can expect a constructive agreement and a solution to this problem to be reached, not unilateral encouragement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u181	Minister of Infrastructure Dr. Peter Gasperšič, you have the floor to complete the response.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u182	Thank you, President, for your word. I confirm that we have no doubt agreed here, and the ministry expects them to reveal themselves here. I think it's data that's kind of public in some way. These bases, as determined, and this price must be determined on a cost basis. So we expect this to be transparently disclosed, showing that both the population and we in the ministry can be confident that the price is set on the appropriate grounds provided for by the law. We expect all actors here, so the heat supplier, the distributor and finally the agency that has to confirm this, to present these issues transparently and to convince us of the appropriateness of these calculations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u183	We are moving on to the second round of questions from Members and Members of Parliament. Mr. Marko Ferruga, you have the floor to ask the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Peter Gasperšić.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u184	Thank you for your word. Greetings, Minister. We are now in the stage of amending this maritime code and, of course, we remain in these traditional bureaucratic patterns of thinking, without any additional vision of the future. A year ago, I put in place an initiative that is tourism-coloured and somehow, in my opinion at least, forwards to the future. My wish is that this coast of ours, as much as we have, will become some interesting underwater sea safari, if we can say so, or both with divers, as well as with other vessels, with photographs. Here, I think, is another added value that Slovenia could also market. In particular, it was an initiative to amend article 19 of the Code of the Sea, where there is still that old Yugoslav legislation, where it does not allow these, I will say some modern trends that have now been established in tourism. If I'm specific in these tourist submarines, these are submarines for two people, small, sort of like these two seats with us. Our sea, as we know, has a maximum depth of about 30 meters, 35 is that maximum, so I don't see any problems here. Bureaucratically, however, the Codex of the Sea states that no submarine should come under water or above water. Now these are the little things that I think could be done, I'll say, put an end to it. Instigators, who have also benefited from tourism, have also obtained from the position of the Department of Nature Protection a consensus, of course under certain conditions, and it is even more difficult for me to understand how even the Ministry itself is not more proactive and that it does not have any vision of looking at these matters differently. I agree that there will be a need to limit the area, I agree that there will have to be some kind of control, I agree that there is a lot to define here, but if we look at the fact that we want to be some kind of tourist empire, it is one of those very interesting segments that also brings added value. I think it is appropriate to make some effort in this direction also in the ministry, so I appeal to you, Minister, to try to find some compromise with your experts at the Ministry, to listen in this way also to become one of the first countries here on the Adriatic that has this arranged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u185	Minister of Infrastructure Dr. Peter Gasperšič, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u186	Thank you, President, for your word. Thank you, too, honourable Member, Mr Ferruga, for the question raised. I would like to start by saying that this is not about any bureaucracy at the Ministry. We are very well aware of the importance of tourism as an economic sector for the development and well-being of the Republic of Slovenia, and in this direction we are working very hard to build a passenger terminal in Cyprus. We are here trying to get things intensively in progress with the assistance and cooperation of Luke Koper, the Municipality of Koper, as well as the Ministry of Economy, which is responsible for the field of tourism. I would also like to explain in the introduction that the initiative for underwater navigation itself was based on the application made by a foreign shipowner who would like to promote the activities of passengers on luxury passenger yachts, this is what I would like to stress in particular, by the way that it then descends into territorial waters in the Republic of Slovenia these passengers in these small underwater vessels, as you have already mentioned, for two people. We have already examined this initiative in detail at the Ministry and, in view of the findings and arguments that we will further explain and explain, we have decided that the amendment of the Maritime Code in a way that allows for this navigation of underwater vessels will not be included in the current amendment of the Maritime Code. Now, why we have come to this conclusion, of course, is ensuring the safety of navigation and the protection of human life. If we are to introduce these matters, we should make a number of changes and reinforcements to the competent services, which could then competently supervise such navigation, i.e. underwater navigation with these submarines. It is therefore necessary to strengthen the maritime self-government in such a way that appropriate surveillance equipment, appropriate vessel equipment should be provided, teams should be trained to search and rescue underwater vessels, in short, a number of measures that would also require considerable financial resources to ensure all of this. And so we now come to this question, whether by allowing this type of navigation, underwater navigation, these resources can be economically justified even if we want to. Is the contribution of such activities carried out by such a private shipowner thus sufficient to justify such adjustments? We also want to get an answer to this key question, which is why I am asking, or I am taking the initiative, to refer to our ministry or also to the Ministry of Economy and Tourism, so that we will examine together what these beneficial effects on the development of tourism activities and on the revenues that can be realised by the Republic of Slovenia from this title, and whether these increased revenues would justify the strengthening and establishment of these services in the Republic of Slovenia. Let me also say that, as part of this initiative, we have also examined how this is regulated in other European countries. Unfortunately, we haven't been able to get a lot of answers. I can say, for example, that Great Britain has a total of both military and all other aspects of underwater navigation, and they also have appropriate services. Sweden doesn't have it covered. We also received information that this is not regulated in Greece. In the neighbouring Republic of Croatia, however, it is permitted in exceptional cases, subject to the consent of the Minister of Defence, exclusively in internal waters. In short, each particular case shall be examined separately and issued with a special authorisation for such navigation. In short, all countries, most countries obviously have very limited this for the reasons already stated. We suggest that we really reexamine this matter, see the benefits and on the basis of that [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u187	Luka Mesec, you have the floor to question the Minister of Finance of Mags. Matei Vranictor Erman.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u188	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Madam Minister, my question is about selling NLB. The Slovenian state holding company is expected to present today a prospectus for the privatisation of NLB, so NLB will be close to becoming the second state-owned bank to be privatised under the mandate of the Cerara government, following the Maribor NKBM of course. If your coalition agreement is realised and the plans for the banking system are made, at the end of your government's mandate, it will no longer be owned in Slovenia by a single commercial bank or by one of the larger banks in the majority domestic ownership. This is particularly worrying because if you look at the intersection between the European Centre and the periphery, you will see that, say, Germany has 40% of the banking system in the country or in the cooperative property, it is said, it is some kind of public bank, and only 3% of the banking system is owned by foreign banks, while in some Bulgaria the image is approximately reversed. And Cerari's government is taking us to the province with this decision on bank transactions. In this sense, I am now asking you the following questions. First of all, you swore to work for the welfare of Slovenia, please, if you could explain: How will selling the largest Slovenian bank for about a third of what we spent on recapitalising it contribute to the welfare of Slovenia and its citizens? Second of all, I'm interested in: Why is it good to privatize as NKBM if we get only part of the funds back? In NKBM we got about a quarter of what was invested in NLB, if the numbers quoted by the newspapers are kept, it'll be around a third. And in the end, I want to know: Why didn't the government ask for a delay in selling NLB, which, according to our estimate, is once again a normal sale? In recent years, we have seen some cases, notably Portugal and Italy, which have managed to negotiate a delay in the privatisation of their banks in Europe. And last time: Do you support the possibility provided by law that before the final sale, the Government will decide as the Assembly of the Slovenian State Holding?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u189	Minister of Finance Mag. Matthew Vrančnik Erman, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u190	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President, and thank you very much for the question. First of all, I would like to explain that the decision to privatise the New Ljubljana Bank is not the decision of this government, but it was a commitment to reprivatise 75% of the bank with less than one share. This was the government's commitment at the end of 2013, on the basis of which state aid was granted to this concrete bank of billions and a half. Therefore, it is not appropriate to compare, on the one hand, the German banking system and, on the other hand, the current situation in the Republic of Slovenia, where all the key banks were granted State aid in 2013 and 2014, resulting in consequences. Let me remind you that, at this point, it remains state-owned 25 and that even after privatisation, it will still remain state-owned 25 %, including the New Ljubljana Bank, and that in 2015, in order to ensure the preservation of the NLB's systemic position and the maintenance of the dominant Slovenian influence in the operation of the bank, the decision on the method of sale was taken, that is, the so-called IPO, which is different from the method of sales used by NKBM. As far as hints or your price assessments are concerned, I think it is premature at this point to speculate what the market price might be. We are before we offer the bank for the first time on the international market, and the market is the one that will determine the price at the end stage, and therefore the estimates are that we will get a refunded third, half, quarter, essentially just an indication. In the case of direct payments that may be received for the sale of shares, account must also be taken of the dividends that the bank brings and the indirect effects. If I limit myself to the past case, there are these indirect effects for NKBM, which can be measured by at least 350 million in the amount of the lower interest that we pay for the state debt, including for the sale of NKBM. The situation is similar in the case of NLB. Speaking of 350 million, I'm talking about savings in 10 years or 10-year-old bonds. I believe that the commitments given must be respected. For this reason, compliance with such commitments shall be treated as fulfilling or acting in accordance with the law and the Constitution and shall also contribute to the long-term well-being of this country. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u191	Port of the Moon, you have the floor to request a reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u192	Thank you for your word. I'd like to respond to a few things. You're saying that the decision to privatize is not the decision of this government. See, the European Commission's commitment allows for an implicit second option, to which we have already referred the entire mandate in the United Left. In fact, the decision is whether Slovenia sells 75% minus one share or sells NLB's subsidiaries in the Balkans for it. And in this sense, by selling the subsidiaries, if we look at the latest profits, we would lose about a quarter of the influence in the bank and a quarter of the profits, and we would keep the matrix and the biggest Slovenian bank in the Slovenian hands. So I'm interested in: Why didn't you use this option? And second. I mentioned earlier that Italy and Portugal have negotiated for deferrals: Why didn't you try something like that yourself? As far as price and premature speculation are concerned, I will say that the price will not be determined by the market, the price will be determined by pressure. In this case, the pressure is time-consuming, potential buyers know that if Slovenia insists on the commitment, it will have to sell the bank. Therefore, the price will also be reduced accordingly. And a third. When you talk about indirect effects on government debt, look, we're only going to lose up to a billion euros at a sales price, because of the difference between the deposit and the purchaser. At the same time, it must be said that in the first quarter alone, the bank generated €82 million of profits, which will now run in three quarters elsewhere. So this should also be taken into account in your account. And last of all, I would ask you to answer a question that you're not to, above all: Do you support the possibility that the government, as the SDH Assembly, would decide on a final sale before the sale?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u193	Minister of Finance Mag. Matthew Vrančnik Erman, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u194	I apologize for the lack of response. Each institution within SDH, administration, supervisory council and government as a assembly shall have its own powers. And if, according to the decisions of the Administration and the Supervisory Board, it is also necessary for the Government to decide as a congregation, the government will also assume this responsibility. However, by law the authority of the government as a congregation is, in fact, the last in line. Once again, as far as the price is concerned, I fear that we are actually the most affected by this kind of debate. Thirdly, as regards branches in other countries of South-Eastern Europe or the Balkans, if we want to preserve the New Ljubljana Bank as a system bank and as an important banking player in the South-Eastern European market, where I think it is doubtful, then the option to leave the possibility of sale or the possibility for the European Commission to sell branches in other countries as part of the sanctions is, in fact, to destroy ourselves a bank that we call a systemic and important bank and to reduce its value not only by 75% of the book value of branches, but for much more. As far as deferral is concerned, it is necessary to look at the circumstances and for how long other countries have succeeded in providing a postponement. We managed to secure a one-year delay for part of the sale. However, it should be borne in mind that, as I said before, commitments must be respected and only justified reasons can lead to the extension of different deadlines. The extension of the time limit for sale also means the extension of commitments by which the bank is limited in its profitability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u195	Luka Mesec, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a debate at the next meeting on the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u196	Thank you for your word. My assessment is that, in addition to the second track, the beginning of the construction of the second track, the decision on the fate of NLB is probably the biggest decision that this government will make and implement by the end of this term. The consequences are drastic. As I have already described, not only are there incurable profits, not only the lost impact on the Slovenian banking system, but not only the lost possibility of transforming NLB into a development bank that would support its accumulated capital and investments in the local economy, the consequences are that Slovenia, with such decisions, is going against the European periphery and that it will be more similar to Bulgaria in 10 or 15 years from now than to some developed European country. Therefore, in the United Left, we propose that the sale of NLB before this happens be discussed in order to potentially call on the Government to support the capital investment management strategy of the country in which a different mandate regarding NLB may be imposed on the Slovenian State Holding. And secondly, if it is not possible to simply call on the Slovenian State Holding to at least make this most important decision, which will be implemented by the end of the term of office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u197	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Tuesday 30. 5. 2017 in the framework of the votes. Miha Kordish, you have a word, ask question A, sorry, sorry, sorry, I've already marked it as a yes. [[…]] Excuse me. Mr Andrej Chuš, you have the floor to question the Minister of Justice of the Magi. Goran Klemenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u198	Thank you for your word, because there's no problem, we've solved it. Dear colleagues, colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! At the beginning of the week, we received in some maps in the National Assembly through an internal post office a column by former President Drnovsk who said: “The state must be friendly to everyone and not just to some. Those who come into power must treat it with caution, with the greatest possible responsibility. State institutions must be impartial and objective.” In short, he said something very important at the time, perhaps even visionary, that he saw in the future what is also happening today in our love of Slovenia. Even when I walk on our love for Slovenia and when people ask me when Slovenia will finally be fair, when Slovenia will be legal, when Slovenia will be equal opportunities for all no matter how you write, where you come from, which place you come from, and how much you have in your wallet, I think all these questions are in place. But, of course, I cannot pass through a very important component, the rule of law. In fact, people in the light of some recent events get the feeling that someone who writes an hour at a school to get it done has not actually done it, someone who steals 5 jams, or after domestic chicken thieves are persecuted and are immediately sent to prison for years of imprisonment. On the other hand, we have a Slovenian, we can say a transitional elite who avoids accountability for their crimes, for their criminal acts, for people who should have sat long ago, to be locked up in prison, a bank hole – 5 billion euros we have been confusing money, and nothing has happened, the rule of law is not working. And of course, people rightly wonder where I live. That's why I'm interested, Mr. Minister: When will you finally see to it that the country is truly a state of law for all? Although some efforts have been made, I still estimate that this is not nearly it and that in Slovenia we have a privileged caste that can steal, laughs at people's faces and will not answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u199	Minister of Justice Mag. Goran Klemenčič, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u200	Mr President of the National Assembly, thank you for your input. Dear Member, Members and Members of Parliament! You asked us the question: “Minister of Justice, when will you finally see to it that Slovenia will be a state of law?” If it were that simple, believe me, to stand on his head, to put the last atom of energy away and do that, even though then he would exhale. If it were all up to one man, one minister, of course, that is not the case, and we are aware of that. I agree that we have much to do in the field of the rule of law. Not only this government, I believe this government has done a lot already, and I believe there will be a lot more. But all together, the rule of law is not only a matter of justice, but it begins here in Parliament, with every congregation, every window, before any administrative court. And then, of course, in the courts and in the bodies of detection and prosecution. We don't want to be philosophies. In this regard, I also agree that people rightly expect more activity and better extraction, as it were, at least in terms of epilogues, even in the pursuit of the most difficult forms of economic and economic crime. Here too, it must be admitted that things are moving, even I do not think quickly enough, according to the majority's belief not fast enough, but they are moving. I also wanted to say this afternoon to your fellow Member, but not that anymore, but to the SDS Member, Dr Logar, I have answered what has been done in the area of economic crime prosecution and I have already counted these things. As for what you also asked me in the question – obsolescence, possibilities of avoiding procedures and so on. I myself have repeatedly said that obsolescence is the worst possible outcome of any procedure. I'm not all condemned to understand each other, although sometimes people want blood, sometimes justifiable, but justice grinds slowly. But it's important to grind it in any direction. The worst part is if this mill stops somewhere in the middle. This has happened in the past and sometimes happens today. It must be said, however, that today there is significantly less chance that these things are happening today and I think there will be significantly fewer. The three aspects are, on the three sides, it is possible to tackle this problem. On the one hand, the limitation periods should be extended in criminal law long enough for them not to expire in view of the complexity of certain procedures. We have also done so in this mandate. I believe that even you voted in favour of the amendments to the Penal Code last year, where we extended the limitation period from 10 to 20 years for corruption crimes. I think you voted. In the same law, we have specifically defined that the limitation period does not run at this time when the person is on the run, when he is actively evading. And here the possibility of repeating what we have witnessed in the past has been significantly reduced. Security guards must then be installed in the system that prevent abuse and unjustifiable abandonment from the main treatments by the occurrence of the penalty. Even lex Bavčar, although the law that we adopted was adopted on a proposal from the Ministry of Justice, was not because of Bavčar, but despite him and that the Bavčars would not repeat that it would not be possible to unduly avoid the occurrence of criminal sanctions, and today this is no longer possible. However, there are still many repetitions, exercises, many returns from the first stage to the second stage, many such and different backlogs from the main proceedings, either the witnesses or the accused, and this has been addressed in the amendment to the Criminal Procedure Act, which is already in Parliament. I believe that it will be summer, if not early this year, and then the autumn subject of the debate. He also wished for a lot of controversy in the media, and that is why I believe in the final stage, because it requires more responsibility from all stakeholders in the process, because it interferes with the possibility of delaying procedures and so on, and this, of course, brings up certain raised eyebrows. So we've already done something. I think we've done a lot already, but certainly we'll do more and I'll try to make it possible for me to solve the problem of the rule of law if I end up joking, which, of course, is not as simple as I said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u201	Mr. Andrej Chuš, you have the floor to request an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u202	Yes, Mr. Secretary, of course I agree with you. Slovenian policy, we have to have a backbone and do something. The last time I drove away from a regular meeting of the National Assembly, I was just listening on one of the commercial radios when one of Mr Bruno's people said we couldn't hurt each other's spine or fashion because we don't have that dagger. In view of what is going on in some particular case of Mr Bavčar, which you have also discussed, I must say that I agree. Transition tycoons walk peacefully across Slovenia, play basketball instead of sitting in prison. As you also said, Mr Minister, you said that if the rule of law and some authorities did not act, heads would fly. Mr Minister, I'm asking you some questions on June 16th in this case, too. Today we're on May 26th, so we're three weeks bad, and look at the transition tycoon mentioned, even though it's a role in self-reliance, it's made out of all of us crazy. I am convinced that there are also many politicians with him, not only in Parliament, but also the government, who may occasionally play basketball. Therefore, Minister, please make sure that Mr Bavčar is responsible for his crimes. These people who play basketball with him, tell them that if they're missing an actor, I'm coming to play. I've already got the uniform, and I brought the ball. So please, if the actor is missing, tell me, I will go and Mr. Bavcar will answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u203	Well, well. I think it was a very graphic display, so let's say that this is how you want to do something in front of the audience, but this really isn't the most appropriate thing to do, I have to warn you. So I am giving you a reminder because otherwise the public will be convinced that we can do anything in this national assembly. The word is mag's Minister of Justice. Goran Klemenčič to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u204	Okay. Basketball is my favorite sport. If I could afford something like this, I'd be accused of everything alive in this place, believe me. I'm not gonna make sure Bavčar or anyone else goes anywhere to sit or anything like that because it's not the responsibility of any minister, not even any political commissioner, so let's put it aside. However, it is my duty and responsibility to establish, together with the National Assembly and the Government, a system that will reduce such abuses to the lowest possible level. And we did it. In the final stage, I don't know, because you said that the procedure was out of date, I must admit that you put me in a bit of a bind. I don't get it wrong. It's not an insult. I don't know if you've been listening to the news this week. This thing can't get old anymore, and it's not obsolete. It's not for me to understand each other. And also as a punishment, I believe that it will be carried out in accordance with the law adopted in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u205	Mr. Miha Kordiš, you have the floor to ask the Minister of Defence, Mrs. Andreja Katič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u206	Thank you for your word, chairman. My question relates to the safety of flying in the Slovenian Army, specifically to helicopter pilots who actually do public service work, transport heavy patients, rescue in mountains and the like as regards every citizen of Slovenia, and it concerns them directly. Your maximum, Madam Minister, and most of the political class after all, is that there should be no deficiencies in security. But they're flaws. In January, the pilots' union pointed out that pilots are under-trained on simulators. You, Madam Minister, have answered my question in February, and I will quote: "If you respect the rules in force, some of the crew should be participating in training already in January." End of quote. You promised that the training contract would be signed by the end of March. Today it's May 26th, and you still don't have a signed training contract for Bell-412 helicopter pilots. And this situation is alarming. Your Secretary of State Bizjak replied to the union yesterday that there were only six cougar pilots operational and only 12 pilots for Bell-412. What does that mean? This means that there are fewer operational pilots than half. But we are approaching the summer, the summer, when we have the greatest disasters in the mountains. In addition, pilots and other airmen have to go on vacation sometime, put all this together, shows that we will have some serious problems. The General Staff and the Ministry already knew in advance that many pilots would be inoperable in January. But if they didn't know, they'd have to know, and they're responsible. That's why I'm interested in the following: Does he keep track of how many pilots are operational — say only 6 cougar pilots and 12 Bell-412 helicopter pilots? How many Bell-412 helicopter pilots have been trained in flight simulators in the last 12 months? Who will be responsible for not providing training on the simulator in time? What will you do to ensure that such a thing does not happen again in the future? However, I would like to add that it seems particularly scandalous to me that there is a lack of resources to train helicopter pilots at the same time that only within your department is the Government affording unacceptable expenditure, such as spending 23 million for the purchase of falsified patriots and 12 million for NATO escapades and labour in Latvia and so on. Helicopter pilots save lives and rescue them at home.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u207	Minister of Defence Andreja Katič, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u208	Dear President, honourable Member, first of all thank you for the question. Indeed, with regard to the training of helicopter pilots, we answered you in writing already in February. We have also provided all specific data on the number of pilots who have been trained on the simulator after each year since 2013. Let me also start by saying that I regret that we did not respond to their questions in time and within a short time frame to the Syndicate of Pilots from the Ministry. Probably because of your question we answered them yesterday, and probably there would be no need for further questions if we had better correspondence. According to the Slovenian Army General Staff, the current operational situation of the Slovenian Armed Forces pilots does not affect the execution of tasks in the context of the implementation of helicopter emergency medical assistance and mountain rescue. In accordance with the plans, the Slovenian Armed Forces shall provide in constant readiness one helicopter in 15 minutes' readiness and one in 2 hours' readiness. In certain cases, the Slovenian Armed Forces, instead of an air force, also provided two helicopters in 25 minutes' readiness to carry out those tasks. As a result, crews of Slovenian Armed Forces helicopters carried out these tasks 109 times this year, 26 times in mountain rescue, 78 times in helicopter emergency medical care and 5 times in firefighting. In doing so, 110 injured or sick persons were transported to the mountainside, dropping 157 thousand gallons [150,000 L] of water, and a total of 128 hours. On your question, according to the Slovenian Army, there are now six Bell helicopter crews, 12 pilots, and three Cougar helicopter crews – 6 pilots. As regards the promotion of further operationality, the public procurement procedure on the emergency simulator has been completed for the training of helicopter pilots on cougar. A training plan shall be drawn up and coordinated with the tenderer. The first crew to attend this training this month has already completed their training. As regards the public procurement for the implementation of the training of a simulator for the implementation of emergency procedures for the training of Bell helicopter pilots, the contract is still under way as the unelected tenderer has submitted an audit request, and the Ministry of Defence has unfortunately no influence. Ensuring the safety of pilots, as well as all other members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, has been and will be my first priority in the future. The General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces shall ensure that helicopter pilots who do not comply with all the required requirements and conditions, including appropriate training on simulators, do not carry out operational tasks and are not deployed on them. Taking into account such assurance by the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces, it is irrelevant how the pilot should act if it were allocated to the operation of rescue operations in the mountains or at the HMNP, but would not have had a valid training on the simulator, as this should not and should not have occurred. In doing so, it must again be said that pilots who do not have operational status exercise their own training and thus maintain the minimum level of training achieved. As far as pilot training is concerned, I also had a special meeting with representatives of the Union, which includes pilots. They told me that, in their view, the biggest problem is that the plan for the implementation of training and education of all is being prepared together and unfortunately, it was not until the end of the first third of this year that it was submitted to me for confirmation. I have talked about this with the Chief of Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces, and I expect that for next year's training and education plan to be prepared and approved this year for the following year, so that it would not be possible for certain trainings to be effectively suspended. In your question, which was referred to us, you also asked about the future development of the aviation component and would say that we will also discuss this in more detail in the new resolution on the overall long-term programme and the equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces by 2030 and in the new medium-term defence programme for 2018-2023, which we are planning for the second half of this year, and in the framework of all other components, we will also treat this component comprehensively both within national frameworks and within the framework of the Alliance. I'd deny what you said this year is about 23 million Patries. The first is that the negotiation procedures for the future period under the capacity objective have not yet been confirmed will be provided for at the June Ministry. This year's funds are mainly intended for ammunition, maintenance, uniforms, protective equipment, some also new equipment, which is 7 million of which will be earmarked for maintenance, most of which for helicopters. There is no way we can, nor can we currently supply 6-wheelers, not 8-wheelers, because the procedure is very difficult and we are currently in the stage of preparing the necessary investment documentation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u209	Miha Kordish, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u210	Thank you for your word. It was just a matter of acquisitions, patriots. I say this in comparison to where money is given and where money is not given. But the thing is, on May 11th, the government found these 24.3 million euros. Whether or not this has already been realized is less important. The fact is that when it comes to investing in NATO's old iron, the finances are found, and then we have here a question of helicopter pilots, such as transporting heavy patients, saving in mountains and the like, where we still have austerity measures at work and things don't go the way they should. But you answered me quite correctly. All I care about is who's gonna answer. Surely someone must be responsible for the absence of timely training on the simulator. This should all have happened in January, you said so yourself. When did this happen for the caugar? Marca, April, it was already on the run. Well, as far as Bell-412 is concerned, the contract hasn't been signed yet. Here comes a very big hole that shouldn't be.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u211	Minister of Defence Andreja Katič, you have the floor for additional answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u212	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Member! As I have said, most of these funds, which will be intended for maintenance, I am talking about these additional EUR 23 million that the Government has earmarked for the Slovenian Army, as regards maintenance, will also be dedicated to maintenance for helicopters and for other aircraft. As far as the invitation to tender is concerned, I have said that we have started the procedure, but since the unelected tenderer has complained, this ministry has no influence and the procedure should in fact be terminated. However, I agree, and so was my conversation with the Chief of Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces, to start timely procedures, that even if changes occur during the year, it is easier to prepare a plan earlier, so that everyone is also aware of it and to supplement it during the year, if necessary. This is how I expect this year's training and training plan for next year.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u213	Mr Matjaž Germany, you have the floor to ask the Minister without a department responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion, Mrs Alenka Smerkolj, who is excusedly absent, so I ask you whether you want an oral or written answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u214	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to request an oral response at the next session. I will, however, touch on the Interreg project, which is a joint initiative of the European Regional Development Fund, which finances projects for cooperation between regions of the European Union with the aim of greater economic and social cohesion, by promoting cross-border cooperation, inter-state and regional cooperation and balanced development of the territory. Particular attention shall be paid to peripheral regions situated at the borders of the European Union. The programme area, which extends more than 30,000 square metres, has more than 5.5 million inhabitants and includes the Slovenian side of the region, such as: Goriška, Gorenjska, Coastal-Kraška and the Central and Notranj-Kraška statistical region on the basis of the flexibility clause. My question to the Minister is, according to the information I have on the invitation to tender this year, the majority of the funds are earmarked for Ljubljana, Ljubljana. We are talking about the origin of the system of financing the border regions, such as the mountain area, the northern coastal part, the southern coastal part. In this case, when we talk about Interreg Italy-Slovenia, almost 50% of the money generated from European funds will go to Ljubljana. I feel that this is good to some extent if it is not to take those regions to which these funds are essentially intended. That's why I'm interested, Mr. President: What is the position of the Minister, while the funds which are basically intended for cross-border cooperation, in this case between Italy and the Republic of Slovenia, are romal or will they be rummaging in Ljubljana? Of course, Ljubljana has a very strong institution as a centre, such as the Chemical Institute or the Jožef Stefan Institute. But how can I say that the border belt competes with such powerful institutions? Here I am warning you that we are going in a direction when we are going to have a headache, and it does not seem fair to me that we are taking those funds to whom we are going. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-26-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u215	You will receive an oral response at the next meeting. I hope all the conditions for this are in place. I thank the ministers and ministers for the answers given. This concludes this agenda item, which we will continue on Tuesday, 30. 5. 2017, when the National Assembly will decide on the proposed decisions in the framework of the votes. Members and Members of the Parliament would like you to take all the materials out of the Chamber, because on Monday, participants of the Children's Parliament will visit the Assembly Hall. I'm adjourning the 30th meeting of the National Assembly, which we'll continue on Tuesday, 30. 5. 2017, at 10 a.m.
