ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 26th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popot, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, Mrs Ljudmila Novak from 10 a.m. on, Violeta Tomić, mag. Bojana Muršič, Dr. Miriam Bon Klanjšček from 12 o'clock forward, mag. Alenka Bratusek from 19:00 on, mag. Andrej Shircelj, Dr. Franc Runk by 11:00, mag. Branko Grims, Mr. Bojan Podkoršek, mag. Matthew Tonin from 17.30 p.m. to 11 p.m., Mr. Janez Janša, mag. Bojan Krajnc, Mrs. Anita Kolesh, mag. Branislav Rajić and Mrs Irena Kotnik. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 3. At the end of the day, this is on the proposal of a law amending the law on legal relationship and social dimension, a short procedure. The draft law was submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by 5,000 voters and voters. With regard to this proposal, the Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons Committee proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee to Mr Uroš Poklo for further explanation of the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! Allow me to give you a brief presentation of the Committee's report. The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons is at its 34th session of 11. On 1 this year, the draft law amending the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, submitted to the National Assembly by more than 5,000 electorates and electorates with a proposal for the consideration and adoption of this proposal for a short-term law, was considered as a mother’s working body. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the draft law amending the Law on Marriage and Family Relations should be dealt with in a reduced manner and that the Committee should also consider it under Rule 142 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Representatives of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, representatives of the Ministry of Justice and the Legal and Legislative Service participated in the work of the Committee. The Committee was also given an opinion which examined the proposal in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical and legislative aspects and made specific comments. An amendment to Article 2 has been tabled by qualified investors within the time limit. The representative of the proponents presented the path of the proposed law requiring the collection of more than 5,000 citizens and citizens, voters and constituents of the Republic of Slovenia. Even so, as she pointed out, it seems unreasonable to her for a long time before this bill was discussed in the National Assembly. The representatives of the applicants also presented the objectives and content of the bill; this is in one word the protection of the child's benefits. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service said that the draft law had been examined from the point of view of their competence. It also drew attention to the proposed provision, inter alia, to the removal of parental rights and stressed that parental rights are a constitutional right and a convention right. The withdrawal measure is therefore only allowed under exceptional circumstances. It also drew attention to the Institute of Relative Adoption, which is complex and therefore needs to be regulated in a comprehensive and weighty manner. It is also necessary to examine and amend the provisions of the parents' declaration on the choice of guardians established in legally comparable countries and to propose a better solution. In its opinion, the Government found that a comprehensive and not only partial, partial regulation of family law was needed, so the competent ministry, namely the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, drafted a proposal for a new family code. Those solutions require a comprehensive system of law, a coherent system of protection and education and protective measures for children in the field of care, care and adoption; and the delimitation of the real competence to decide on these matters. The partial solutions, as highlighted and resulting from the proposal for a law, are not legally completed. In the debate that followed, it was pointed out that the proposal for a law went through a purely normal parliamentary procedure and that we could not have dealt with it sooner under the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, since the procedure for a proposal for a law governing the same social relationship had to be completed before that. Proponents of the bill explicitly put forward the view that we have a legal void in the proposed area and that the amendment of the law must be adopted as soon as possible. Those who opposed and opposed this bill considered that the proposal was flawed and not ready to go into further procedure or procedure. There is a need for a comprehensive and not only partial, partial regulation of family law, so we do not support the bill. Some also considered that all essential rights under this proposal were already covered by the law in force. At the conclusion of the vote on the amendment tabled to Article 2, the Committee did not adopt the proposed amendment. Following the discussion, a proposal was made for the Committee to decide on a proposal for a decision that the proposal for a law was not suitable for further consideration. The proposal for a law amending the Law on Marriage and Family Relations is not suitable for further consideration, as nine Members have been identified for such a decision and only three have opposed it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u3	In order to present my position on the proposal of the working body, I give the floor to the representative of the motion for a bill by Mrs Metka Zevnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u4	Dear Members and Members! I'm here today as a representative of the Children and Families Movement. Together with Mr Donk and with 8,000 citizens, we have tabled an amendment to the Marriage and Family Relations Act. I am deeply disappointed that we can only be here after seven months. Why did we make a change of law in the Family and Children Movement? Because it is human rights of grandchildren and the importance and respect of old parents. The law is available to people at the family referendum and to the injustices that occur to grandchildren and their old parents in the event of tragic events, such as the case of Korean boys. Old parents in Slovenia are the largest group of people who have been denied us constitutional rights; that is, to be equal before the law. That's me, too. For we must not adopt our grandchildren simply because we are their parents. Any other person in this world could adopt them if they were orphans. Even so, the long - foretold breakdown in the Family Code of Old Parents again neglects and robs us of human dignity. What changes are we proposing in the amendment of the law? The possibility of adoption of grandchildren if they lose their parents; the withdrawal of parental rights in the light of the protection of the child's benefits in the event of a serious crime against which a family member is involved and the immediate placement of the minor under guardianship; the possibility for parents to express their last will to whom they would trust their children in the event of death; and the obligation to express their suggestions and wishes in the event of the appointment of a guardian. The majority of the members of the Committee of the National Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons did not confirm either the amendment or the amendment of the law. And what is particularly sad is that the members of Desus' committee were also against the constitutional rights of old parents. Dear Members and Members! I ask you to vote in favour of amending the law before you, as the Supreme Court also said in the case of an action by the grandmother of the orphaned Korean boys: The relationship between children and their old parents is protected by the Constitution and the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The right of children to old parents and the right of old parents to children must be protected not only from State intervention but also through the active conduct and care of state authorities. I repeat, not just before the state intervenes. Dearly beloved, I conclude with the words of the writer Boris Pahor, who I adopted and who wrote them down at the time of his most venerable 100 years. “I’m a pessimist with my mind, and I’m an optimist with my heart, because I actually come to believe that a person will find a formula. And this formula is very simple – love. There is no other solution.” And that's why there will be no retreat on our part. It's time and it's time. The time is yours, and the time will be ours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u5	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word shall be given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, in its name mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u6	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President.Dear Members, Members and other Members! The amendment to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations with a very similar content as we have before us today has recently been discussed at the 24th regular meeting of the National Assembly. As was then, in today's proposal for the amendment, the mother labour body concluded that the law was not suitable for further consideration. The bill provides for the removal of parental rights from a parent who has been detained for suspicion or has been convicted of offences of serious bodily harm, murder or murder of his spouse or partner, his child or the parents of his child. The proposal makes it possible for parents to adopt a child, with all the rights and duties applicable between parents and children in the family and in all other legal areas. According to the proposal for a new law, the Centre for Social Work also takes into account the wishes or suggestions of old parents when appointing a guardian. It can also take into account the last will of one or both dead parents, if that is in the child’s best interests. In the event of disagreement between the Centre for Social Work, the Ombudsman and the elderly parents and other close relatives, and the last will of the parents, the Court shall decide in an unfair proceeding. A child who does not have parents or who has been deprived of parental rights or whose parents do not care for him will be appointed a caregiver without delay. The arguments for rejecting the amendment are similar or almost identical to that of the amendment of the same law that we have recently considered in the National Assembly, which is understandable in view of the similar content of both laws. Even in this proposal, the amendment did not take into account all legal moments that may occur in cases where the grandson is no longer a grandchild; rather, he becomes his ex-parents when they become his parents. Not to mention or repeat everything that has been said recently, let me say that the proposed solution does not formally and comprehensively address all possible legal consequences that would have occurred when the old parents adopted the child. In the Desus Group, we also believe that the proposal is not enough to meet the criteria for the greatest benefit of children, but it is the first and most important condition that should be met and for which we should always and in any case strive. As regards the removal of parental rights, as proposed in the current proposal for the amendment of the law, the legal profession has made it clear that the general definition of the reasons for the removal of parental rights in the light of the child's benefit is necessary, since it is not possible for the law to provide in advance for all the actions of parents who may have signs of crime and to that extent threaten the child's benefit in order to require the removal of parental rights. Automatism in such a case, as proposed in the draft law, is by no means appropriate, otherwise, in a specific case which would not have been defined in the law, it could have happened that the competent authority could not have responded adequately, as it would not have had a legal basis for doing so. Unfortunately, the proposal for a law is so flawed that the shortcomings could not be corrected by amendments that we do not support in the Desus Group of the bill. The Desus Group has already voted on the working body that the proposal for a new law is not suitable for further consideration. This is how we will vote today. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u7	The word shall be given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mrs Marija Bachič, on her behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear fellows and fellows, welcome! Today, we will unitedly support the proposal to conclude that the law is not suitable for further consideration. In view of all that we have been listening to in the last few months practically at every step, our common goal should be to actually reach agreement on the best solution; one that will be good for children and for old parents. But unfortunately, the pre-election campaign of the candidates, which they took advantage of on the committee and once again abused children and also older parents, further strengthened us in the view that they are not about changing things for the better, but simply about exploiting circumstances for their own promotion. It does not matter who is exposed, permanently marked, or abused. We cannot confirm the social democrats of this proposal, as the Legal and Legislative Service has also pointed out a number of shortcomings in the proposal. We are convinced that the applicants have not submitted solutions that respond to the stated needs of practice; on top of all, they have also been very poorly worked out, which reflects the fact that the cases they address would not be able to be handled in the way they should be addressed in order to remedy legal voids. Therefore, without bad news, we reject this proposal. At the same time, we are pleased that the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities has fulfilled the commitment and submitted the Family Code, which we will consider as soon as we have completed the procedures of this proposal. We hope that we will reach broad consensus on the solutions to the proposal of the Family Code and finally regulate this area in an integrated manner. We want constructive discussions, which are already well-known actors will not be used to raise political points, but will be able to overcome the appetites of their own promotions. Let me just remember today that they don't forget by accident – it's about the kids, isn't it?Oh, my God! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u9	The text is given by the Joint Left Group, in its name Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, chairman. False prophets and ecclesiastical extensions attack the equality of all families, the right to abortion and the emancipation of women. But these dark men can only succeed because capitalism has broken our ties, plunged us into loneliness and pushed us all together; therefore they will not be stopped by the liberal winding of our noses, disgust and sermons. They will be stopped only by our solidarity. He doesn't negotiate with Primci, he doesn't even give in for a millimeter. Moving towards child abuse is not a well-meaning organization that seeks to benefit children. The proponents of this law and their supporters are sincerely seeking to limit the right of our people to the freedom to choose a way of life. With a campaign for laws like this, they prepare the ground to bring their conservative agenda to Parliament in the coming elections. The coalition MPs responded to the committee by pushing your head into the sand, you were silent not to provoke the motioners. But, I'm sorry, this tactic doesn't work. You can't fight homophobia, racism and the church by being quiet. The right of same-sex couples, women and strangers cannot be overcome by your silence. If you don't believe me, believe the results of three referendums where same-sex couples and single women lost their right to an equal life. But the Socialists will not be silent and we will call things by their real name, so we are also in Parliament. The dark ones are not at all afraid of liberal morality and the environment. But they are afraid that we will say clearly and aloud who and what they are and why they are working together in solidarity and solidarity. If we look at it realistically, this proposal has two things to do. It contains some technical solutions that already exist in current legislation; only that there are now certain safeguards. The confiscation of parental rights due to criminal offences is, for example, possible with this guardian, that it is decided by the court on the basis of circumstances; not that it goes automatically under the law. The essence of the law, that is, adoption by old parents, is actually a clerical solution to a problem that does not exist. Old parents adopting their children is an old rural practice that modern society has exceeded. With such proposals, they want us back in the pre-World War II situation, as one of the proponents frankly said. I will quote him: “Social work centres simply did not deal with these family matters at the time for this very reason because the old parents spontaneously jumped in and took care of their grandchildren; what we want in the Movement for Children and Families is to be followed immediately.” Yes, of course, the old parents spontaneously jumped on the father's side, as it was also self-evidently that illegitimate children were despised, as it was self-evident that abortions were carried out by the anointed, that the Church and the village community were harassed by gays, lesbians and, in fact, all those who did not establish church morals. In our legislation, there is an instrument that allows old parents to care for grandchildren after their parents die; this instrument is custody. The custody is normally granted to relatives on condition that the child benefits. Pika. Everything else is a voter turnout for a new right-hand clerical party. And this will be another party of people who think about telling everyone else how to live. There is also a fundamental difference between them and us, socialists. We don't force any woman to make an abortion; we give her a chance to do it safely and free of charge if she wants to. We also do not force anyone into same - sex marriages, contraception and so on; we simply allow people to live that way if they want to. It is totally foreign to us that the church needs to get involved in whom someone will have sex, with whom someone will have a child, and who will adopt whom; so we will support the conclusion that this law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u11	Procedurally, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u12	Dear Mr President, distinguished guests, dear colleagues and colleagues! Mr President, I'm sure we both agree that we have witnessed an enemy speech here. There are no darkers in Slovenia, there are no church extensions in Slovenia. Please, Mr President, today is the beginning of a new day. Don't let it be so intrusive. I ask you very much to warn my fellow Member that all the people of this country and this world must be respected in this temple of democracy. And please warn him, this was an eclectic case of hate speech. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u13	Well, it'll be procedural anyway. Procedurally, Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u14	Thank you very much for your procedural, chairman. I suggest you reject this call from the right because it's not a case of hostile speech. This is what the right hand refers to when we smash their masks and look at their real face from behind; it does not mean that it is actually a hate speech. The hate speech is basically hate and anger directed at some marginalized groups that are not in positions of power, such as their skin color, political belief, their activism, sexual orientation, some alternative life practices. And when, for example, politicians and other social agencies, with their unknown structural, propaganda power, get on these groups, restrict them, prescribe their lives, even persecute them, we talk about hostile speech. It's certainly not an hate speech to just call clericals clericals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u15	Now we can continue with them without my final decision. But first of all, because now you've both made your point, I'll tell you my basic position on this. A hostile attitude towards a particular group was expressed. I think there's a better way to work, actually. At the same time, hate speech is a call for violent acts. I think we're on the verge of that. I would really ask that today, when we have such important matters, we refrain from doing so. Although, as far as I know you and as far as I know what's going to happen in this room, it's highly likely that we're not going to do it once, but many times in our relationship with everyone. I recognize that. I ask the Member not to repeat this in other matters. But at the same time, I will probably have to ask you sometimes not to express hatred for those who think and do otherwise. They're an integral part of our society, and I think we can all co-operate in this society. Calling against anyone is not the right thing to do, but I say – fighting against anyone. Against anyone. That's what I'm going to do today. I hope we can make it through all the points. I said I recognize the shape of this. Please don't do this. But it's not gonna help me today, and if I give a thousand reminders to anyone, it's not gonna help. But I said I recognized the hostility to. But the thing where things get out of hand is when you're still calling for a fight against those who disagree with you. In his case, I said it was such a thing. Gradually, Mrs. Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u16	We just can't be quiet. We must address what Mr Kordish is not only saying, but obviously he is also thinking and abuse. It seems to me that there is great perversion when you are fighting for human rights when it comes to migrants and asylum-seekers, which is, of course, right; but when it comes to a group of people who have passed the law, which has all the right to think a little differently than you do, you immediately refer to clericals and I do not know what nicknames. It's not just hate speech, hateful thinking. Please, Mr President, stop this when a colleague of Kordish says such things on the phone, because this was not the first time, many times it has been repeated.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u17	Dr. Vinko Gorenak has a procedural order.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u18	Thank you very much. My procedure will indeed be purely procedural, as stated in the Rules of Procedure, and is intended for you. President, I told you at the beginning of your term that you are dropping the level of meeting management to the bottom. You and your two vice presidents have led to every level. Mr. Kordish has the right to say what he wants. I don't have a problem with his performance. I'm having trouble with you. After all, I'm not gonna mention him right now. Someone's gonna bring a gun, a gun. They're not checking us out there. Do you realize where you're taking this national council?Oh, my God! You are responsible for the situation in this National Assembly. And in this way, now that you've smoothed it out, you're a little bit of him, and then you're going to do a little bit of that on this side, and you said that it wouldn't help anything. That's right, you're right. But this is no way for us to lead the National Assembly. I'm sorry, I didn't run the National Assembly myself, I wasn't the Vice-President, but I ran a big committee that counted 19 or 20 people. And I was in line on the boards. You have a microphone in front of you and you can turn it off at any time. Anytime. When you think someone's going across the border, over the edge of some normal parliamentary act. We have some people here who are not Members. Members do not sit there. These are the representatives of those signatories, the guests of this National Assembly. And you have all the tools: one admonition, two admonition, three warning, the police, out. If a member of the European Parliament is taken away by the police, he can also be taken from ours, the President. And you're not a Democrat. You're not going to be a Democrat if you're going to smooth things over a little bit. That's not gonna work. You must interrupt, order in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Rules of Procedure, until you interrupt the meeting and order the police to escort an individual member out of the National Assembly. You can have me, I don't have a problem with that, you decide that. But, for God's sake, decide! You can't starve a little left, a little right and do that, and we'll move on. Mrs Bachičeva has already performed as she performed. She talked to the proponents, that's all. I don't know what right we have to propose. And once again, President, lead! Take a firm lead! I urge you to be a strong leader of the National Assembly, because that will no longer work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u19	Procedurally, Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u20	Thank you very much for your procedural, chairman. I suggest you simply reject the procedural proposal of colleague Ludmila. What she suggested was unheard of because there was no dispute in what she had responded to. You're clerical, they're clerical, we're socialists, they're social-democrats, they're liberals. And since the Memorial, in any Parliament, they have spoken through such labels and people are defined. There's nothing to argue about. Before that, there was also talk of hostility. Those who want to deprive our women of the right to abortion who want to violate the equality of all families who are committed to the emancipation of women, yes, we will stand on the sidelines. You've been right to detect these agents, and I'm sure they're cutting the hostility out of me. But what kind of hatred is that? I call for solidarity. I'm calling for people to get organized. Let's get together. All we have to do is clearly and loudly expose this Clariquean agenda, which wants to take our rights, especially our women, who want to get involved in the lives of our people. That's all, solidarity and together we're going against the dark forces, against the ecclesiastical extensions, which are just freaks of degenerate capitalism.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u21	Come on, come on, now you're overreacting! Now you're exaggerating. That's insulting! And please, when we express our political views, we do not use an abusive vocabulary. [[advertising from the hall]] What, sir? [[…]] I'll answer both procedural questions first. [[Ms Metka Zevnik and Mr Donko's representative of the proposed bill proposals for leaving the State Hall in regret]] Can I finish? I told you before that I ask you not to insult those you disagree with on a personal level. Especially those that don't suit you. An offending speaker is not allowed in this House. Even though I said I wouldn't be giving you any reminders today, that's why I'm giving you a reminder. As for the management and management of the meeting, I would probably be on the wrong track if I got a commendation from my colleague Gorenak; I would know that I am really doing something wrong. Procedurally, Mr. Jan Škoberne.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Mr President, today will be a long day, with extremely difficult topics. We didn't get a good start, maybe because there's too much hot and bad air in the hall. I suggest you stop the meeting for an hour, so that the professional services can air this hall, so that we can all calm our heads and proceed so that the National Assembly can do its work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u23	Your message was also a message to the technical services of the National Assembly, which will act. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u24	Dear President! In my address, I also intended to welcome the proposers. I note that there are no representatives of the Ministry, so we are alone on the subject that is of the greatest benefit to the children. A short time ago, we considered a very similar proposal for the amendment of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, which we proposed in the New Slovenia Group. For the same purposes, we have proposed, together with the movement, that the law on the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities be dealt with jointly. The so - called hybrid would make sense, since marriages are related and regulate about the same rights of old parents and parents. Unfortunately, the joint treatment was not possible. In Novi Slovenija, we stress that parents must first listen to the best interests of their children when they are seeking or working for them. Parents know what's best for their children. That is why we have also proposed the possibility for parents to determine in a prescribed manner who is or also who they think is not suitable for the care of their children in case of force majeure, the death of both parents. Another proposed solution, which is also supported by Christian Democrats, is that old parents have the opportunity to be a party in the case of the search for guardians for the death of their parents. The representatives of the Ministry of Labour in the opinion shall ensure that these proposals are contained in the Family Code. On the first proposal of the Family Code, we made comments in the New Slovenia Group. In doing so, we have also announced publicly that we expect that the Family Code will most likely, if at all, only be enforced in the second half of 2017. Today, I can tell you, we're not wrong. There is still a legal void in this area. For the period until the adoption of the Family Code, a law must be adopted which actually allows old parents to be parties to the procedure. Just being solidarity isn't enough. We are all called to warn and to listen to things to improve, to look to the best legislation. This is our duty and this is the duty of civil society to collect signatures to amend the Law on Marriage and Family Relations. Members of New Slovenia support these efforts and we will vote against the conclusion that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u25	The text shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, on her behalf by Dr. Miriam Bon Klanjšček.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The proposal of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, which is before us, interferes with three areas of family law, namely the deprivation of parental rights to parents under the suspicion of criminal service, adoption of grandchildren by old parents and the appointment of a guardian for the child. Initially, I understand the wish of the electorate and the electorate to remedy the shortcomings of the law in force, since the Law on Marriage and Family Relations has not undergone any radical and necessary changes since 1976. However, when we are thoroughly reading the text that we are considering today, it is easy to conclude that the bill offers only partial solutions to legislation, which, to be honest, also contains some controversial elements. Next, I'm going to point out two of the people who disturbed me the most. Even though I strongly condemn any form of violence, especially against children, I cannot go beyond a provision which, on suspicion of a crime, allows the seizure of parental rights by parents, because such a change in legislation would go deeply into the constitutional principle of the presumption of innocence. Taking away parental rights would have punished parents even before his guilt was legally decided. I also need to touch on this occasion on the possibility of adopting grandchildren by the old parents, which the bill envisages. Although this provision eliminates the inadequacies highlighted by the applicant and which have been discussed many times in the past year, the adoption institute is complex in nature among relatives and therefore needs to be assessed in a comprehensive manner in view of the change in relation to the relationship between the two. The bill does not deal with legal consequences that would arise after the adoption of the grandson. This was also pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. In the Alliance and in the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we believe that the change in legislation in the direction proposed by the group of electorates and voters does not offer solutions to ensure adequate corrections to the accumulated problems in the area of family law. A complete overhaul of the area of family law is essential, so on this occasion I welcome the arrival of the Family Code in the procedure of the National Assembly. According to the Ministry, this will improve the situation of children in family relations, ensuring more effective implementation of one basic principle of family law, which is the benefit of children. We hope that's true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u27	The word shall be given by the Group of the Modern Centre Parties, in its name mag. Tanya Zink.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u28	Dear President, dear colleagues and colleagues! Today we are again considering a proposal for a law that puts two fundamental solutions at the forefront. The first gives old parents the opportunity to adopt a grandson. By another solution, parents are given the opportunity to express their will to care for their children in the event of the death of their parents by means of a notary record or in some other unmistakable way. As with the proposed amendment of New Slovenia, this time we also point out the most receptive solution, this is the possibility of adopting a grandson. At the parental board meeting, we once again had the opportunity to listen to the advantages and disadvantages of such an arrangement, but this time we have not supported unfinished solutions. The institution of cohabitation is complex and therefore needs to be regulated in its entirety, and a serious consideration needs to be made primarily on the issue of if and to what extent the relationship between the child and the former relatives changes and the resulting rights and obligations of the child. However, this cannot be adequately regulated by the amendment of only one article, and this time it was not possible to introduce the other necessary provisions with amendments, since not all the articles which would have to be amended, supplemented or re-added by the amendment in question. The adoption of relatives by country is different or acceptable. However, in countries where they are admissible, relatives are listed as possible to a particular knee in a level or by-line; and not only old parents. In most cases, where the adoption of relatives is admissible, there are also other restrictions and specific provisions which the novel under consideration do not contain. Therefore, it would be wise to seek solutions, certainly in the direction of lasting care for children who are not related to adoption, as provided for, for example, by the Family Code within the framework of the Institute of Expanded Parental Rights or Parental Care, which could be given to the most appropriate relative and not only to old parents, taking into account the child’s greatest benefit, of course. Many European countries, however, offer a similar solution, as suggested by the proposer, the opportunity for parents to express their will in advance with regard to the child’s suitable guardian in the event of their death. This institute, of course, is not based on automation, but is judged by the child’s greatest benefit. The parents' will may be challenged in court, as it is necessary to take into account the discretion of the competent authority as to whether the proposed form of child protection is of the greatest benefit to the child. The other two solutions proposed by the proposer concerning the immediate withdrawal of parental rights and the immediate placement of the child under guardianship are already in force, as has been pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service. Nevertheless, we would like to point out that we want such measures to follow the best interests of the child. However, we believe that with the four partial solutions or the amendment of only four articles of the current law, as proposed in the amendment under consideration, this cannot be ensured. As a result of all of this, we will support the conclusion in the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u29	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Marijan Pojbič, on its behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u30	Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! First of all, I must say that, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, I strongly protest the way today's meeting was conducted. What Kordish has allowed has exceeded all the limits of good taste. It's a hate speech. I think that Kordish should apologize to everyone, publicly apologize – this is what the President should ask – for so many old parents and all those who he has insulted here in Parliament today. I think this has exceeded all the limits of good taste. Such people and such Members in fact have nothing to look for in this National Assembly. I say this very clearly and very responsibly. Now let the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party be represented. In recent years, many months have proved to have the current Law on Marriage and Family Relations. As the biggest shortcomings, two could certainly be highlighted. The first is that old parents cannot adopt grandchildren in cases where their grandchildren die and lose their parental rights. The second is disregard for the last will of parents. The current law does not allow parents to designate a person to be adopted, fostered or cared for in the event of death or loss of parental rights and such adoption, fostering or guardianship would not be harmful to the child. The argument against such a solution, which can be seen in the debates on this issue, is in particular that this would undermine the relative relationship of having a child as a parent of an old parent who would adopt him. That's an argument he can't stand. It is true that the Slovenian legal order only knows the so-called perfect adoption, by which the adoptive child is completely excluded from the family of biological parents and converted to the adoptive family. It is, however, possible to regulate this dilemma by law in a way that the parental relationship between non-adoptor parents and their biological relatives is fully maintained, which means that only old parents who adopt a grandchild become parents; and all other related relationships do not change. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we had prepared a proposal to amend the CFSP, which would correct the shortcomings exposed, but we have not tabled the proposal because the Movement for Children and Families for a Marriage with Similar Content has begun to collect signatures. Of course, we have given much greater weight to the law by signing citizens and citizens, so we have abandoned our intention. Today there is a law before us that has 7 000 664 signatures for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. The key solutions proposed by the law relate to the removal of parental rights, allowing old parents to adopt grandchildren. And assumes that the social work center in appointing a guardian takes into account the wishes of old parents and allows them to respect the last will of parents. In particular, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we support that old parents have the right to adopt their grandchildren in front of other unknown persons. Unfortunately, the coalition and the opposition United Left do not support this. We support the bill in the Slovenian Democratic Party, so we will vote against the conclusion that the law is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u31	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 2nd item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. At the end of the day, that's a second-hand proposal for a law supplementing the law on the courts, a regular procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of five Members and Members with a first-signed mag. Matthew Tonin. With regard to this bill, the Committee on Justice proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to Mr Jan Škobernet, Chairman of the Committee, to further explain the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u32	Thank you very much, distinguished president, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The Justice Committee is at its 28th session. 1. Consider the proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on Courts, submitted to the Assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Mag. Matthew Tonin. Mr Jernej Vrtovec, representative of the proponent, pointed out in the supplementary explanation of the articles that the offences in the area of banking crime have caused extreme damage to the Slovenian financial system and that the recovery of the consequences of Slovenian citizens and citizens has cost more than €5 billion. The proposal therefore seeks to ensure a higher level of specific focus on dealing with one of the most demanding forms of crime within the Special Specialized Section and to improve the specific and necessary skills for the work of the courts. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that most of the comments made in their written opinion were duly taken into account in the amendments tabled; however, the issue of the criminal appropriateness of the definition of banking crime and the relationship to the existing specialised section dealing with more difficult criminal matters remained open. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice presented the Government's written opinion and said that, despite the principle of agreement with the purpose of the bill, the Government does not support and will continue to work towards upgrading existing organisational and procedural measures. He further presented the legislative solutions already adopted within the Courts Act and the amendment to the Criminal Procedure Act, which is in the final stage of preparation and brings new solutions in determining the actual competence of specialised sections of the courts. In the debate, opposition Members pointed out the inadequacy of existing legislation to identify criminal and compensation liability for the creation of a bank hole and called on the government to propose appropriate or more appropriate measures in this area in accordance with its powers and coalition contract. The proposed law, however, does not, according to the assessment of the coalition Members and Members, bring about an improvement in the trial in banking crime cases, as it does not specify which offences the departments concerned are to deal with. After the vote, the Committee decided that the law was not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u33	In order to present my position on the proposal of the parent working body, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed bill to Mr Jernej Vrtovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u34	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! Dear Mr Secretary of State, it is good to meet you again. Why is New Slovenia for the establishment of a special department for the prosecution of bank criminals? Since we can no longer indefinitely, at least in New Slovenia, watch that those who have robbed our Slovenian banks, those who are responsible for paying 3.9 billion euros three years ago for the rehabilitation of the Slovenian banking system, those people are not responsible for criminal and not for compensation. And it can't go on forever, no banker in this country has ever been convicted. The initiative to cut off this Gordy knot and take a joint step forward came first of all from this Parliament, when the National Assembly voted in favour of the report of the Investigative Commission to identify abuses in the banking system and voted unanimously – the establishment of a special court for banking criminals tried in the event of banking crime. Even with the votes of the coalition. That is why I really do not understand why the coalition opposes this proposal of our legislation to set up a special court for banking crime. And the second reason was given by the Head of the Special Prosecutor's Office, Mr Harij Furlan, when he pointed out a time ago the problem of organising courts in the face of banking crime. In his view, we should establish such an organisation as to actually ensure that specific cases are dealt with by a number of the most experienced judges. In his view, a court dealing only with such cases would deal with cases more quickly. And who should we, politicians, believe, if not the first prosecutor of the Special Prosecutor's Office, that something needs to be done in this area, that those scoundrels who have taken money from Slovenian banks who are responsible for the fact that this money is gone; who should we believe if not him? Or to whom should we trust more than the Minister of Justice and the Ministry of Justice himself, which was a month ago in November, two months ago, in a press release, said that the solution was a specialised court for banking crime. In Novi Slovenija we have put this legislation in public because of all these initiatives, we are setting up a special court for the prosecution of banking criminals and we want to cut this Gordy knot. The bill provides for the establishment of specialised branches for banking crime in district courts. And in these departments, judges, coworkers and assistants are deployed who are the most capable and qualified to deal with banking crime. The proposal lays down, in view of the high degree of complexity of this area, the obligation to meet the obligations of persons operating in this section, including the acquisition of skills from abroad, allowing for the transfer of best international practices into the operation of the department. The operation of the most qualified persons within the Banking Crime Department ensures a higher level of special focus, improves the flow of specific skills and gives the department clear responsibility for dealing with one of the most demanding forms of crime. Because what do we have today? Although we have three people convicted of banking crime, they are not banks, they are not bankers; they are those who came to the banks for credit. However, we do have two unlawfully condemned persons, but things can change and they can be forgiven. The problem we have today is that judges, even in the opinion of the Special Prosecutor's Office, do not know matter. One day they belong to someone who is a smoking thief; the next day they have to deal with the difficult problem of banking crime. Our marriage is an opportunity for the government to take a step forward and I stress that those responsible for the establishment of the bank hole are also responsible. The taxpayers have — I tell you, Mr Secretary of State — enough to put money into banks, and no one is responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u35	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Mr Dark Staret, to present my position on the proposal of the working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u36	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! At its regular meeting on 5 January this year, the Government adopted an opinion on the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Courts, proposed by a group of Members with a first-signed Mr Mag. Tonino. Among the objectives pursued by the proposers in the law, in particular improving the conditions for the judicial treatment of banking offences and enhancing the effectiveness of the courts in the proceedings on these matters, the Government of course supports. It supports the intention of the proposer and supports the objectives of this law, there is no doubt about it. However, according to the Government, this proposed route is not the right solution to achieve this objective for a simple reason – in the Republic of Slovenia, on the basis of the current Law on Courts, we have already established specialised courts operating in four district courts in the Republic of Slovenia. The major crimes committed by these specialised courts and within their jurisdiction are crimes in the field of economic crime. The term banking criminality is a criminological term and covers from a legal point of view, which is relevant to the legal qualification and actual competence of specialised courts, all crimes in the field of economic crime for which a sentence of 5 years or more is prescribed. The Government estimates that this fragmentation, this institutional fragmentation, could also lead to procedural delays or risks, so that such proceedings may take longer because the actual jurisdiction of this court is indirectly determined by the State Prosecutor's Office Act, which provides for the actual competence of the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office, which is established precisely to deal specifically with the detection and prosecution of the most difficult forms of economic crime, including banking, organised and corruption. From an organisational and institutional point of view, it is necessary to take a broader view of the matter, not only from the point of view of one body, which is the most important, crucial in the final stage, namely the courts; but also in this triad from the point of view of the prosecution and the police. Since, at present, 35 judges are involved in specialized courts in the Republic of Slovenia, including banking crime, and in view of the human resources constraints imposed by individual courts, you know that it is one of the important objectives and priorities of the Ministry of Justice and that government to achieve faster procedures through normative, organisational and institutional measures, i.e. faster decision-making. From the point of view of the judiciary, this means that the decision takes place more quickly at the first stage, whatever it already is; from the point of view of the pre-trial procedure, namely detection, police activity and prosecution, and that the available procedural measures are applied and enforced more rapidly, more intensively, more rigorously and more qualitatively according to the criteria of professionalism, which, in its very significant and from this point of view, has given and commanded to all national authorities in this triad also the Constitutional Court of 2014. Since it is essentially this triad, I would like to emphasise that a separate treatment is not sufficient and this approach is not sufficient from an organisational point of view alone. The more important is a comprehensive, more complex approach, and we will ensure what you know, because this has already been made public and public debate is concluded, as well as the cross-cutting coordination of the Criminal Procedure Act by improving the procedural conditions, measures and possibilities for achieving more efficient and faster procedures in the forecasting and penal stages, i.e. during the trial phase. One of the priorities of this government and of the Ministry of Justice is the establishment of a specialised court, because, unlike the proposed solution, which, as it is said, has the same purpose and objective that we are pursuing, we see a solution in the concentration of procedures, so that we are carrying out more rapid individual procedures, as well as the centralisation of institutions, that we have one central court. As we have the National Investigation Office in the predictive phase, as we have the Special Prosecutor's Office in the prosecution phase, we will also have a central court that will specialize only in such matters. This approach seems more effective, more appropriate, even comparatively based on experience. For these reasons, the Government does not support this proposal, regardless of whether it agrees with the intention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jan Škoberne has the floor to present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u38	Mr Vice-President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In fact, what the representative of the Government has said has nothing to add. Only that we will further redefinition our legislative pool, for which we have already found so often that it has many or too many rules, but too little to assume personal responsibility for the execution of what we have set and set up will not have the desired effect. Bank crime and the rehabilitation of the banking system as a result is something that currently weighs most heavily on the development potential of our country and also on the growth potential we have. It is therefore crucial that a reform package of laws be implemented and adopted as soon as possible, which has already been sent to public hearing by the Ministry of Justice, which is also adopted in the final stages of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. And these are the key objectives to be pursued. Instead of fragmentation of centralisation and increasing the efficiency of work and instead of accumulation of legislative acts for each segment of a potential crime, it is also more appropriate to define elements of the personal responsibility of all those involved in prosecution and judgment processes. And before each package prepared by the government for a year or two, the opposition can then receive a large number of proposals that represent only a fraction of what the government is referring to; and they are in spirit very similar to what is likely to be adopted at one of the forthcoming meetings. In fact, this is populist and more than strengthening the effectiveness and functioning of this system contributes to its further fragmentation and reduction of what we all want – successful prosecution, in this case of banking crime. We will therefore support the proposal by the Justice Committee that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec will present the position of the Joint Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u40	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The United Left's position on bank crime investigations during the crisis is well known. Due to the scale of the crisis, we need extraordinary legal remedies and also methods. We need some systematic investigation, something like that, because the coalition has already promised in a coalition agreement. Simple administrative changes in the courts are of course not enough; at the same time, citizens must be told that the costs of bank rehabilitation cannot be reimbursed through criminal proceedings. With the rehabilitation of the banks, the country also took over loans from the church funds Zvon One and Zvon Two, and from the company T-2 owned by the Maribor archdiocese and other private companies. It is not possible to recover compensation from these entities. As we have seen in the case of the economics of the Maribor archdiocese of Krašovac, monetary penalties and refunds are inadequately lower than the cost of rehabilitation. This does not mean, of course, that criminals need not be persecuted far from it. All I am saying is that it is more important to prevent further damage to state property, so we demand that the privatisation of the Bank and the NLB be stopped. Only in this way can we maintain the public funds we have invested in banks. This is the only way to keep future profits, which are already record-breaking, publicly owned. We demand that the privatisation of Abanka and NLB be stopped because it is necessary to prevent a new sale in Helios or New Credit Bank Maribor. As it is said, the coalition covered the entire line in the system's investigations. In fact, the burden of the investigation fell on the parliamentary committee led by colleague Hanžek. Even in the area of banking crime, the coalition has done nothing. In May 2015, the Law on Systemic Investigations of Projects of State Interest was incorporated into the legislative procedure. The law received support at first reading, but the law is so weak and controversial that the Ministry and Government are obviously unable to correct it. That is why we call on the government here to withdraw this law and prepare a new one. After all, Justice Minister Klemenčič must in some way justify travel costs to Iceland. As it is known, the Commission on Public Finance Control, on a proposal from the United Left, has already adopted a decision on 15 February 2015 ordering the Government to prepare within three months all necessary to carry out a forensic review of bank recovery. It is not enough to investigate individual bankers and individual loans, it is necessary to establish the responsibility of the officials who agreed that Slovenia was an experimental rabbit for testing new European regulations. Because there are double criteria in the European Union, it is necessary to identify who in Slovenia is the one who has agreed to treat us as a banana republic. This is not an academic question, because stress tests depend on our public debt and it is high time to remove those responsible from the ministries and also from politics. We can agree with the government that the proposed solution would not bring any special benefit, but at the same time we are protesting that the government and the coalition have not prepared alternative measures within the existing apparatus, as well as for the use of new institutions and methods.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u42	Dear President, Honourable Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! On 22 November 2016, this National Assembly voted on the decision of the Interim Report on Parliamentary Investigations in respect of Factor Banka, d.d., Probanko, d.d., and Banka Slovenije, which contained, inter alia, the text, and I quote: "The National Assembly, in accordance with the essential findings of the parliamentary inquiry, proposes to the Government that it be legally and materially ensured the establishment of a specialised court for the prosecution of banking crime within the framework of the organisation of the judiciary." 74 members voted in favour of the motion, and no one voted against it. Today, some argue that this is not necessary and that this cannot be done in this way. However, our voting commitments oblige us to settle these matters. In Novi Slovenija we took the area of the treatment of banking crime seriously, we proposed a amendment to the Law on Courts, which also in line with a decision which received almost plebiscite support in this assembly, brings specialisation in the work of the courts. However, despite the unanimous support of the decision, the government coalition voted against the law that implemented the content of the same decision. In New Slovenia this move is really difficult to understand, such a decision shows the degree of seriousness with which the government coalition sees these issues. The government's excuses for providing financial resources for the functioning of the banking criminal justice departments are unusual in the face of such a deep, billion-dollar bank hole. Slovenian citizens probably do not have much hearing for such excuses. On this occasion, once again, it is crucial to normalise the banking situation, in addition to the package of measures proposed in New Slovenia, that the implementation of State banking is a key breakthrough, so we expect that the procedures for the sale of the New Bank of Ljubljana will continue and end as soon as possible despite recent complications. At the same time, Members today have the opportunity to introduce a higher level of specific focus, improve the flow of specific knowledge, and share clear responsibility for dealing with one of the most demanding forms of crime, with the support of the amendment of the Law on Courts. We Christian Democrats are convinced that this is what Slovenian citizens expect from us. In Novi Slovenija we will support the amendment of the Law on Courts.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Dobovšek will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u44	All those who accompany this meeting are respected! We have a problem with financial crime, which is a broader concept than banking crime. We know that the crisis that hit us years ago caused the economic collapse; but I stand alone in the view that it was not a crisis, but it was a financial crime that those who had caused such acts tried to identify as a crisis so that they would not respond. We know that responsibility can be at multiple levels; we also know that investigation. Today we are dealing with one small segment, which means criminal responsibility. This is just the tip of the iceberg and such actions are very difficult to detect; let alone prove. We're dealing with these worst forms. Of course, every move, every help is welcome to do something in this area. The proposal of colleagues from Nova Slovenije goes in this direction to improve the situation, to achieve that final effect, to see who has committed this kind of financial crime, and to give a sign to those who are going the same way today, so that such actions are not paid. Of course, the proposal is not complete and should be finalized. And I expected it to happen in this parliamentary procedure. Unfortunately, the proposal does not have sufficient support, but the excuse is that a system regime is being drawn up. Of course, we would like to see such a system arrangement as soon as possible. We see, however, that the issue on committees and commissions is going in a completely different direction and that the opposition's proposals are stopped in particular after this type of crime has been detected. The core of persecution is still in financial institutions. And here is the criticism of the government that in some financial institutions we have holders of responsibilities, not directors, who would establish the supervision and functioning of these institutions. Therefore, in the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we support such proposals to improve the financial crime situation; and we regret that the government does not do so alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Dr. Jasna Murgel will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u46	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on the Courts of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – proposes to set up courts for trial in banking crime cases. The applicant assesses that the existing organisation is not sufficiently appropriate and is also ineffective for the prosecution of banking crime cases as very specific crimes. We are convinced that all of us are aware that banking crime in the Republic of Slovenia has caused tremendous damage to the banking system and that then a very high tax on citizens has also been imposed. Then we all paid for this so-called bank hole. In our opinion, law enforcement authorities and other competent authorities are already working to prosecute such crimes as effectively as possible and to prosecute and convict if the signs of a crime are met in specific cases. That particular attention should be paid to these crimes was shown as early as 2009, when a specialised investigation and decision-making department was established with the Law on Courts in more complex cases of organised classical and economic crime, terrorism, corruption and other crimes. At that time, only experienced and specially trained criminal judges dealt with these matters. Soon it became clear that the system must be upgraded or improved, so four specialized departments in the district courts in the higher courts organized instead of one. However, since 2013, district judges who have served successfully in the District Court for at least three years may also participate in the conduct of urgent proceedings. Therefore, these specialised departments can also be allocated to judges of district courts who have sufficient experience and assist these specialised departments and work in these departments is taking place in order and running order. With the last amendment of the law, it was possible for the judges of the District Court in Ljubljana to be deployed to the Chambers of Special Branches if agreement was reached between the President of the District Court in Ljubljana and the District Court in Ljubljana. As a result of all the amendments already adopted, which seek more effective investigations and trials, Members and Members of the Modern Centre Party, we do not believe that the amendments contained in this proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Courts would help to improve the trial of banking crime cases. We prefer to upgrade existing measures, so we do not think the proposed solution is appropriate. As has already been said, the amendment of the Criminal Procedure Act, including the Penal Code of the Republic of Slovenia, is being prepared. As we know, it can also be established in the procedural law that it is applied backwards if this law is specifically laid down; systemic changes are in preparation and have already been prepared to face prosecutions of these crimes. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we will therefore confirm the conclusion that the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Courts is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Dr Vinko Gorenak will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u48	Thank you very much. I've been listening to interesting reading exercises all morning, even now. I won't read it because there's no need at all. Minister Klemenčič announced at the hearing with fire and sword, because you already know this, he with fire and sword, a series of things he will do. When I analyze his performance and look at what he's done so far, I find that he's done nothing yet, so he's done nothing with fire and sword. Nothing yet. And it also shows that this is how it's going to go. Among other things, in his opening remarks at the time, he also referred to the achievement of a certain degree of specialisation in the police, including in the prosecution. We have the National Investigation Office dealing with the worst crime, we have the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office, which also deals with such things; it is not on the court's side somehow. And even then, it was said that some analysis would have to be done to address these issues. Obviously not on these issues. At the last vote of the Logar Commission's report, all Members or the majority of Members also pressed the “yes” button, where it was said to go in the direction of a specialised court dealing with banking crime. Then it's here, and I don't know how much we already have, 35 grand or how many government officials. Do we have that much? I think we do. More. And the former president of the government knows it better. The government has no idea how many employed experts, and the judiciary, and there is still no such law. Then one of the smaller opposition parties writes it and comes up with it, but of course the government says we don't need such a law or they won't support it. Before that, my predecessor, including my former and future judge, Mrs Murgel read a number of arguments why the New Slovenia proposal is not appropriate. I wanted to ask her because maybe I'll be in the hallway when we meet, because she's out now, but why can't she be in Ireland, because there's really two years and a little more of this bank hole, 26. Ten. 2016 went to jail last banker?Oh, my God! We don't even have one. And then all the litany she said to me, why not, it doesn't mean anything. We will support the proposal of New Slovenia. To conclude, I would like to say this because there are now two vice-presidents here, there is no president, and I would ask you to tell him what I said, because I also told him out in the hallway. For the first time in the history of the country of Slovenia, today, a member of the National Assembly, as a representative of the people, spoke to the three citizens who came to this Chamber about the atrocities. Do you know what that means? Vice President, both of you, I'm asking you to take care of each other. At the very least, apologize to these people on behalf of the leadership of the National Assembly. When I spoke about the deleted around 2009, the Vice-President of the National Assembly began to apologize on behalf of the National Assembly. Today, however, we have witnessed someone say that the three representatives of the people who sat there are freaks. An apology is required. The word “excuse me” is a nice word. Consider my proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u49	Thank you very much. I do not know what this has to do with the presentation of the views of the groups. This was some kind of debate you put in. Ms Marinka Levičar will present the position of the Desus Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Vice President. Nice greeting to the representatives of the government and you, colleagues and colleagues! The proposed amendment to the Law on Courts provides for the introduction of specialised departments to deal with banking crime in district courts. In the Desus Group, we agree with the workers that banking crime is a major problem. We also believe that the investigation and prosecution of such crimes should be faster and more effective. That is why I can say that in our Group we support all the efforts made by the proposers to improve the conditions for the judicial treatment of banking crime. However, we do not agree on how to deal with this problem. I will not mention which regulations, which, inter alia, are intended to lead to more effective resolution of banking crime, have already been adopted. I should only mention the adoption of the amendment of the Law on Courts, whereby instead of one, four specialised departments were specialized in the most challenging cases of criminality; inter alia, in banking crime cases. These departments operate in areas of higher courts in Ljubljana, Maribor, Celje and Koper. The question now arises why we should set up new departments for the prosecution of banking crime cases, while there are already specialised departments that cover this area, among other things. However, as a major flaw in this proposal, the irregularity of the relationship between the existing departments and the envisaged new, more specialised departments is shown. The issue of the criminal law definition of banking crime remains open. The proposal does not specify exactly which offences new departments would be responsible for. In the Desus Group, we believe that we will not solve the problem by setting up new departments, because we already have enough. However, it is essential that existing legislation and existing resources be applied more effectively. A new Law on Courts was also adopted in the right direction last year, allowing district judges to be allocated to district courts, as they are significantly more burdensome than district courts. This will make the best use of the human resources potential for the quality treatment of banking crime. In particular, it is important to speed up the procedure at the detection stage as well as the trial in these cases. In the field of legislation, much has already been done in this direction, and positive movements or changes are expected to take place also through the amendment of the Law on Criminal Procedure prepared by the Government. This should further strengthen the prosecution of economic crime, including by facilitating evidence of guilt. For all of this, we will support the conclusion in the Desus Group that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u51	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 2nd item of the agenda. I'm breaking the 7th item of the agenda. We're moving to 8. At the end of the day, that is, on the other hand, a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on the State's Attorney's Office, an ordinary procedure. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of 5 Members and Members with a first-signed magi. Matthew Tonin. With regard to this bill, the Committee on Justice proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to Mr Jan Škobernet, Chairman of the Committee, to further explain the proposal for a decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen. The Committee on Justice considered the draft law at its 28th session. 1. Also on the proposal of the Group of Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Mag. Matthew Tonin. In the introduction, Member Jernej Vrtovac presented in a supplementary explanation the basic purpose of the bill, which is to strengthen the work of the Special Prosecutor's Office with the new state prosecutors and through the new law enforcement department to ensure a more successful prosecution of banking crime. In the presentation of the written opinion, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service reiterated the issue of the criminal appropriateness of the definition of the tumino itself. However, the Secretary of State of Stara presented the Government's written opinion and stressed that the proposed legislative changes, the aim of which is to successfully and effectively prosecute banking crime, are unnecessary despite a legitimate and legitimate objective. The Public Prosecutor's Office can already organise departments on a case-by-case basis, on the basis of existing regulatory arrangements, for the sake of specialisation, better efficiency or coordinated action. The representative of the State Attorney's Office said that the proposed law did not appear to have added value and was assessed more than a reflection of the desire to strengthen the activities of state prosecutors in the area of bank crime prosecution. In the debate, opposition Members cautioned that the results of prosecution and prosecution in banking crime cases were poor, in particular that there were not enough convicted bankers. They also called on the State Prosecutor's Office to alert the legislator to the necessary regulatory changes that would increase the effectiveness of their work. Following the discussion, the Committee, as in the preliminary proposal for a law, adopted a decision that the proposal was not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u53	Thank you very much. In order to present my position on the proposal of the parent working body, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed bill to Mr Jernej Vrtovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u54	My dears! It is amazing that one month ago we accept the same Members in the same national assembly what Nova Slovenije is proposing; two months later we say that what we are proposing is not right. Moreover, the government suggests something, New Slovenia only makes copies of what the government proposes; this is not right. Tell me what's gonna be okay. And with today’s message of this kind, the ruling coalition, too, is taking responsibility. Why? Because for two and a half years, what legislation has been adopted that would allow those who have dug a bank hole to be convicted?Oh, my God! None. Or tell me the consequences of this legislation, which has been adopted, and what has been the effect, and I will believe that the government is really working hard in this area. And the good intention was that conclusion of the commission of inquiry, which you also supported in the ruling coalition. And this is the establishment, let's say in the previous case, of a special court. I don't know why you're voting for something you don't support. That's what you always do. And what kind of messages do we give? We give such messages when the state does not fight against bank criminals, that the villains in the banks are worth it; which is not good. But we're running out of time, and the key problem is time. And in this light is also a novel of the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, which we proposed in Novi Slovenije. We estimate that the scope of detection and prosecution of bank crime offences under the responsibility of the Special Prosecutor's Office for our society is so important that these processes need to be supported and strengthened. And for this reason, our bill provides for an increase in the minimum number of state prosecutors in the Special Prosecutor's Office from 10 to 20. In addition, the proposal for a law, following the example of the establishment of a civil financial department, also establishes a branch for the prosecution of banking crime. The proposal provides that state prosecutors and professional colleagues who are most experienced in this area shall operate in this section. In addition, the proposal to the Ministry of Justice and the State Prosecutor's Office imposes an obligation on state prosecutors and professional colleagues in this section to be assisted by local and foreign experts in banking crime, since the transfer of good practices from abroad to the functioning of the Slovenian Prosecutor's Office is certainly welcome. We have also proposed amendments to this bill at the stage of the treatment of the labour force in accordance with the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which unfortunately were not accepted by the coalition. We cannot always defend ourselves to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and, as a reason, state that we will reject one proposal for a law. On today's meeting of the National Assembly, we will have one law, which may even be passed by the coalition, and contrary to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, we must not be two-sided here. And as with the new Law on Courts, we would also like to achieve this amendment of the Law on Public Prosecutions if I were to conclude that persons most qualified to deal with banking crime could only be dealt with by law enforcement within the Special Prosecutor's Office or in this area of criminal law. And we expect backup. We expect greater support for these people to be brought to justice as soon as possible or to be condemned further with that first novel. Since both are bad for both novels, if I sum up, I predict that Nova Slovenije will continue to insist on what you have accepted by members of the coalition, this is the establishment of a special section of the court. Otherwise, I don't know why you supported this at the Ministry of Justice in November. I understand, however, that the government has certain processes that it will also propose in parallel; but more initiatives than it will have are better.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u55	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to present my position on the proposal of the parent working body. At this point too, Mr Darko Stare, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, is with us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u56	Thank you again for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! I will try to present as closely as possible the opinion of the Government, which is fully described in the written article you have in the material to this point. In view of the basic solutions proposed by the proposers, I will go in line. They propose to increase the legal minimum from 10 to 20 in the systemisation of the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office. The main opinion of the Government on this proposal is that it is unnecessary because everything you are proposing is already feasible and possible within the existing legal framework. Specifically, the first objective or proposed solution, the increase in systemisation of the minimum from 10 to 20, is the fact that 29 state prosecutors are already employed at the Special Prosecutor's Office. You know that the government has provided financial resources in this mandate and that all procedures have already been implemented and prosecutors have increased by 30 in their team. This is almost 20% of the increased human resources potential of one state authority, specifically the State Prosecutor's Office. This has not happened in the history of Slovenia. This measure has been ensured and implemented precisely to ensure that procedures for detecting and prosecuting criminal offences, including banking crime, can be implemented and implemented more effectively in order to ensure the realization and protection of public interest, as expressed in the Penal Code. In this respect, this amendment is unnecessary because there are already one third more employees than you suggest. The second proposal or solution you point out and, in principle, we all support because we all want to be better, more effective, there is no doubt that a special section is being set up. The Act under Article 191 of the State Prosecutor's Act already allows the establishment of departments; this gives the Head of the Special Prosecutor's Office the autonomy and decision of the Head of the Special Prosecutor's Office. As you know, at the moment, the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office in this area has established two departments – the economic criminal and economic corruption department. According to the content of legal qualifications, which are relevant to the real competence and also to the functional competence of SDT and individual departments, we know that this is a core work of these two departments. Since this openness and legal competence are left to the SDT leader, who is the first to effectively prosecute this type of most challenging crime, the autonomy that enables the Prosecutor to make himself available to the prosecution in a prompt and transparent manner in view of the situation of the response; and, independently of others, he can set up a department if he assesses that he would achieve a more effective, coordinated, better-quality work in detecting and prosecuting a particular type of crime. The third goal you're proposing, and it's absolutely, we can say, is evergreen. We never know enough to know or know more; to provide conditions for better training and supplementation of prosecutors. According to the SDT, according to the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office and in the opinion of the Government, the existing legal framework is one that allows not only sufficient but to a relatively good extent and to a degree of quality training and the complementarity of state prosecutors. This is not only an opinion of the government or the ministry, but you could also see it in the writing of the opinion of the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office. At the end of the day, to make it easy not to pay debts, we come to the conclusion that all these tasks are performed in departments, sectors or bodies by people, in this case prosecutors and professional staff. An essential response, and in my opinion the objective that we must all focus on together, is to ensure that conditions and procedures allow for the selection and designation of quality staff, which means competent, qualified, determined, courageous and, above all, committed to carrying out their business seriously. In this direction there are also measures in this, as we say, reform package in the field of procedural and organisational legislation, which I believe will, in a very short time, also be under consideration in this respected State Assembly. The point is to remove all obstacles that will prevent prosecutors, police officers, and judges from working effectively; but ultimately everything depends on them. We believe that these measures, which will come in the package, are the right measures; but ultimately, as it were said, everything depends on the people who are entrusted to us in the public interest, that we are doing our job as qualitatively as possible and in the interests of the community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u57	Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u58	Hello again! We have before us a bill aimed at strengthening and specialising in the prosecution of bank crime. We well know the magnitude of the consequences of such crime. Unfortunately, we still haven't found the culprits. Therefore, in New Slovenia we propose to increase the minimum number of state prosecutors in the Special Prosecutor's Office from 10 to 20 and to establish a branch for the prosecution of banking crime within the Special Prosecutor's Office. In addition, it is essential to ensure that within this section there are professionals who are most qualified to deal with such crimes. The draft law also requires training, including the participation of experts from abroad, which provides opportunities for the transfer of specific skills in the operation of the Section. The establishment of a department within the Special Prosecutor's Office has already been carried out in law, which was the establishment of a civilian financial department. If we simplify the proposal, we want the law to ensure that banking crime is dealt with by those who are most qualified to do so, in doing so, they have been further developed, and that effective practices from abroad have also been introduced into the operation of the department, which are not so small and have proved to be very effective. In Novi Slovenija we regret that the government coalition has decided that, within the framework of the State Prosecutor's Office, we do not need a special group of prosecutors to prosecute banking crime, in spite of the complexity and financial dimension of banking crime. We are also amazed by the State Prosecutor's Office Act in Novi Slovenija about non-compliance and the government's statements on the financial resources needed for the implementation of this law. Such excuses are truly inappropriate in the face of such a bank hole. Citizens expect and deserve policy to do everything in its power to improve and strengthen prosecution procedures in banking. This bill is going this way. Given the low performance of law enforcement and prosecution authorities in dealing with banking crime, we can ask what a signal this is for people who are possibly planning new crimes in banks right now. If, until now, the law enforcement authorities have not been successful in proving guilt in such cases, why would they be in the future. By strengthening the work and focusing prosecutors in this area, we also increase the impact of general prevention, which is extremely important for the future. As we do not care about the situation of bank abuse in New Slovenia, we will, of course, support the proposal for a new Law on the State Prosecutor's Office.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Dobovšek will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u60	All those who accompany this meeting are respected! It's part of a financial crime package. The term is wider. Banks have made a hole with the help of those who are very familiar with this type of crime, these are experts in white-collar crime, which also operates in other financial institutions, and therefore the subject should be fully regulated, both by exchanges and other financial institutions. In addition to the police, the Tax Administration, the Court of Auditors, the Securities Market Supervisory Agency and others are also holders. All these institutions are part of the government and people are assessing the government's work through the work of these institutions. Unfortunately, these institutions do not help to detect and prosecute financial crime. And now what is the job of the prosecutor? The Prosecutor is the central person who directs and coordinates the work of all those who could help detect and prosecute financial crime. Unfortunately, we note that this function is not sufficiently expressed. Statistics must be produced and success must be measured, as it is called, of the prosecutor's work, which is already being done in other advanced, late modern countries. We also hear many instances on the part of the European Union, which I believe are justified that prosecutors do not take advantage of sufficient opportunities to work in joint investigation teams under certain projects, which is certainly financial crime, since our banks and foreign banks are involved in the bank hole. And also specialised investigative groups, which are made up of the financial institutions and the police just mentioned. The key person is the prosecutor who directs. We observe what my predecessors have also found that they are not sufficiently educated and qualified. There are more people who know about financial crime and have more financial skills and more training in this area. The government thinks he can do all this already. But why not; if we have found that a key career is that it is a key training, then all we need to do is measure and put the right people in the right place. If the government does not support such proposals, then at least start to do what it says it can. In the Group of Non-Related Members, we support the proposals just to encourage the government to do something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Ms Ksenija Korenjak Kramar will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u62	Your Honor! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the State Prosecutor's Act provides for an increase in the number of state prosecutors operating in the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office and would operate in the newly established Bank Crime Prosecution Department. The applicant considers that the current number of prosecutors involved in prosecution of the most serious crimes in the Special Prosecutor's Office is insufficient, and that they are not adequately trained to prosecute bank crime. As has already been said, we are all aware of the importance of effective prosecution of banking crime, but it must be borne in mind that all other changes that have contributed to the improvement took the form of a key solution in 2015 to increase the number of state prosecutors. It has sworn 30 new state prosecutors and prosecutors. It is also important that, in the current regulation, the State Prosecutor's Office may organise individual departments for specialisation, better efficiency or coordination in particular areas. The legal basis for the education of state prosecutors is already in force. However, there is also the possibility of cooperation with competent authorities and institutions, such as taxes, financial transactions, securities, the prevention of money laundering, the prevention of corruption and other areas of vital importance for assisting the public prosecutor. Unfortunately, the financial consequence of the bill is not appropriate. The bill proposes an increase in the minimum number of state offices and the establishment of a new department. This would increase the number of district and district attorneys. Such changes, however, require an accurate calculation of the financial implications. The main purpose of the proposal can already be achieved within the existing system with technical reinforcement, the employment of analytical experts and additional education. This is also an important reason why we will not support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office in the Modern Centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Dr Vinko Gorenak will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u64	Thank you very much. As far as this law is concerned, it must be made very clear that we will support it. In doing so, I would like to draw attention to some aspects of the prosecution and its role. In 2011, we adopted a unique law on the prosecution, which has no comparison anywhere in Europe; it is not. In this law, we have equated the role of the prosecutor with the role of a judge. I've been warning you about this for a long time. With the role of a judge who, in his work, decides independently and autonomously in accordance with the Constitution and laws as set out in the Constitution. There is a significant difference between the decision of the Court of First Instance and that of the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court, the Constitutional Court, the European Court of Human Rights and more; or something else. But there's nothing about the prosecutor. If the D.A. says it's not a crime, he throws it away, we're done. In eight days you have as a private person to file a follow-up and we have completed the matter. Today, we have legislation under which prosecutors can, I say, dismiss any criminal charge of economic or financial crime and are not subject to any, I stress to anyone that there will be no mistake, no oversight. There's no control over them. There is neither the Chief Prosecutor in this respect nor the Attorney General in this respect, nor the Attorney General in this respect, nor even less the Ministry or anyone. There is no such model in Europe. The terrible mistake of former Minister Zalar. This will probably require repair, once agreed by even the minister, but nothing has been done in this area. It is true, however, that New Slovenia, with these efforts, with emphasis on banking and economic crime, is also this law in this context. And such a law is not irresponsible because you indirectly support banking and economic crime. We'll support the marriage here. Vice President, you didn't understand why I said that before. It has nothing to do with this point of the agenda; it has to do with humanity.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u65	We are in the position to present the Group's position at the point of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u66	Stop my time! I told you how we're going to vote. But I still have time, so I ask you once again to apologize as the National Assembly to those people who were here before. Thank you very much. If you don't understand.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Ms Marinka Levičar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u68	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Hello again! The novel proposes an increase in the number of state prosecutors in the Special Prosecutor's Office and the establishment of a new law enforcement department. In the opinion of the applicants, this would make the work of the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office more effective. In the Desus Group, we support the position of the proponents that criminal investigations and prosecutions in the area of banking crime must be accelerated. However, the Act already in force on the State Prosecutor's Office provides that the State Prosecutor's Office may organise departments for specialisation, better efficiency or coordinated action in particular areas. This means that even now they can set up a new department for banking crime. Therefore, in the Desus Group, we do not think that we need to change the law in this direction. The proposed novels do not support either the Supreme or the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office. They point out that banking crime is dealt with within the economic corruption department, the economic criminal department and also within the civilian financial department of the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office. Prosecutors involved in banking crime are also linked to the banking college. Two specialised investigation teams have also been established, while prosecutors participate in education in banking crime at home and abroad. In the Special Prosecutor's Office, they point out that they are adequately staffed, they have problems mainly with obsolete technical equipment; they want better equipment and the possibility of hiring analytical experts as well as more education. Since the Special Prosecutor's Office already has a special group of prosecutors involved in the investigation of banking crime, I reiterate the same as I have said in the consideration of the proposal for a new Law on Courts. We agree that the amended legislation should improve these procedures in order to make them more effective. Therefore, Members and Members of the Desus Group will not support the proposal for a decision that this bill is suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u69	Thank you very much. We have completed the presentations on the views of the Group. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 2nd item of the agenda. I'm breaking the 8th item of the agenda. We're moving to five. At the end of the day, this is the third defence proposal for aid for the resolution and restructuring of economic societies and companies in difficulty, the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, Mrs Eva Stravs Podlogar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u70	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Ministry of Economic Development and Technology has been granting state aid to economic operators in difficulty under the current Act on Aid for the Rescue and Restructuring of Economic Companies in difficulty since Slovenia's entry into the European Union. The current law has been notified to the European Commission as a state aid scheme and the Ministry is therefore obliged to comply with the European Union guidelines when granting such State aid. Under the general system of state aid in the Republic of Slovenia and the European Union, the process of granting state aid for the resolution and restructuring of economic operators plays a very specific role in difficulties. The volume is also very limited; of the approximately EUR 1 billion of all state aid granted at annual level in the Republic of Slovenia on average in recent years, only EUR 10 to 15 million per year is spent on aid to firms in difficulty on average. The reason is that State aid to firms in difficulty can only justify important social reasons and the need to take into account the strategic role of individual companies in the national economy. On the other hand, it would not be justified to artificially keep a company in the sector with long-term structural overcapacity or if they could only survive through repeated state interventions. Therefore, the use of State aid for rescue and restructuring is only allowed exceptionally, particularly where the extent of the negative economic and social consequences for the country or region and the national cost-benefit analysis justify this. With 1. Seven. In 2014, the European Commission adopted new Community guidelines on State aid for the resolution and restructuring of non-financial corporations in difficulty. Domestic legislation had to be adapted accordingly. The new European Union Guidelines do not bring major systemic changes, but they do bring improvements and modifications that require greater selectivity of such State aids, a clearer definition of eligibility criteria and greater efficiency. More emphasis is placed on the role of market stakeholders in the restructuring process. Taking into account all the required alignment with the new guidelines and the intention for technical and technical improvements to the legal matter, it has been shown that a new proposal for a law has to be drawn up. Let me take a brief look at the key novelties of the new marriage. The definition of the concept of "economic society and cooperatives in difficulty" as set out in Article 8 and is in line with the 2014 guidelines of the European Union; access to rescue and restructuring aid is also being extended to cooperatives in difficulties that have so far been unjustified without an adequate substantive reason being left out of the legal regime; introduction of a new form of aid; temporary support for restructuring; new eligibility criteria for State intervention, which means, in other words, that the intervention is permissible only if the bankruptcy of an economic company or cooperative would cause serious social problems or a large market failure; the newly defined mandatory components of the restructuring programme; mandatory, a state in an economic society or cooperative distribution of the burden of restructuring between the State and the market stakeholders. We are introducing measures relating to conduct which constitute a prohibition on the behaviour of the recipient of State aid with regard to abuses which, on the basis of the aid granted, would prolong the distortion of the market structure or the protection of the beneficiary against healthy competition. In the spirit of simplifying and shortening the procedure, which is crucial in granting State aid to firms, the power to grant State aid is transferred from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the Minister for Economic Development and Technology. In conclusion, I would like to point out that, at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, we believe that the proposed legal text represents a major step towards the implementation of an effective and Europeanly comparable system of state aid for companies and cooperatives in difficulty. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your attention and at the same time propose that you support the law in the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u72	Mr President, distinguished representatives of the Ministry, Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a law on aid for the rescue and restructuring of companies and cooperatives in difficulty is governed by the intervention or involvement of the State in the functioning of the socio-market economy system. The draft law lays down the conditions for the State to be involved in the resolution of companies and cooperatives. One of these conditions is also the identification of an important systemic role of the company in the development of a country, region or sector that is fulfilled where the bankruptcy and termination of a company or cooperative would result in one or more of the following circumstances: serious social problems with an increased unemployment rate, the emergence of major market distortions and distortions of competition, the risk of disruption of the provision of a significant product or service, the risk of disruption of a significant value chain, the risk of disruption of the operation or destruction of the critical infrastructure of State importance or the loss of significant technical, commercial or professional knowledge and comparative advantages of the State. For small or medium-sized companies, this definition is even more loose. It is enough already to involve a society with high growth potential or significant interconnections with other local and regional companies whose bankruptcy would have negative economic and social consequences for the region or the sector. We can quickly understand that these circumstances are set very loose. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly also pointed out that the criteria for assessing a systemicly important role are very general and difficult to verify objectively. Such a definition simply allows for too much potential for abuse. Slovenian taxpayers have in the past been forced to spend too much money to continue playing in this area. The legislative and legal service also pointed out the inconsistencies of the bill's proposal, since it exempts independent entrepreneurs and economic interest associations, which is incomprehensible. In Novi Slovenija, we want a business environment that will allow entrepreneurs to solve their businesses more easily; without having to be solved by the state. Christian Democrats would want to reduce the tax burden on all Slovenian entrepreneurs much more than the cost of saving selected companies. Instead of the new rules provided for in this proposal for assistance, we would like to simplify bureaucratic procedures. According to the OECD, the Republic of Slovenia is one of the countries with the highest share of state ownership in the economy. The bill does not, however, follow a Christian democratic programme direction that the state must withdraw from the economy. In Novi Slovenija we will vote against the proposal for a law on aid for the rescue and restructuring of companies and cooperatives in difficulty.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr Franc Laj will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u74	Dear Prime Minister, distinguished representatives of the Ministry, dear colleague and colleagues! In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we will also support in the third draft law on aid for the rescue and restructuring of companies and cooperatives in difficulty. We believe that this law is not only necessary but can also be useful, as 15-20% of economic operators with such or other problems still live in the Slovenian space, which also fulfil the conditions for obtaining such support. We call these problems either capital inadequacy or insolvency. In order to reach out to this aid instrument, it is also necessary to create legal conditions, a law that will also be in line with the European Community's legal rules. It is only in this way possible that such companies will also receive eligible State aid. Many times this state aid for restructuring firms is the only way to keep healthy companies on the market or in life. However, we must be aware of this, and it is very strong that we are transferring or giving great powers to the Ministry and the Government to grant State aid autonomously and selectively, of course in exceptional cases. Therefore, procedures should be conducted in a transparent manner, in particular here I would like to draw attention to the auditors, as this should also always require a cost-benefit study by these judges, an analysis of the costs and benefits, which is, in practice, then one basis for determining the eligibility of this State aid in these exceptional cases. It is also very important for the Ministry to establish effective controls for the allocation and further use of these funds. Only in this way can we be satisfied with the expected results of this law and the notified scheme for the granting of this aid, because only in this way can we expect to achieve the expected economic and social objectives of our society. Let us hope that the law will achieve its objective and that the funds will also reach those companies that deserve it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr Danilo Anton Ranc will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u76	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, distinguished representatives of the Ministry and honourable Members and Members of this National Assembly! Perhaps for the introduction again my constant observation, when we consider economic topics, is more empty. It's not exactly our pride, but let's continue with our position. The Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union lays down, in principle, the prohibition or incompatibility of State aid with the internal market of the European Union. Article 107 of the Treaty provides that any aid from a Member State to individual undertakings which may distort competition by favouring certain undertakings or their products shall not be permitted. The Treaty below provides for exceptions to which State interventions are permitted or compatible with the internal market of the European Union, such as regional and political reasons, the strategic role of the company in the national economy. The Ministry of Economic Development and Technology is carrying out procedures for granting state aid to restructuring companies and cooperatives in difficulty in accordance with the law we are considering today. The law was notified to the European Commission as a state aid scheme on the basis of the 2004 guidelines. The Commission of the European Union shall be of 1. Seven. 2014 adopted new Community guidelines on State aid. The Republic of Slovenia was therefore obliged to supplement the existing law. The new guidelines bring about changes in the direction of greater selectivity, with an emphasis on the effectiveness of the aid granted. The proposed solutions seek to provide greater opportunities for efficient and real restructuring of companies and cooperatives in difficulty and to improve their ability to maintain them, to maintain jobs, and also to improve the functioning of the Slovenian economic system. Aid may be granted in the form of a loan, a subsidy, a guarantee or a capital investment. In doing so, the applicant must provide 25-50 % of his own contribution. The aid is eligible for companies once every 10 years and they must implement measures to limit competition at the time of the restructuring. In practice, State aid has been granted exclusively to companies defined in the law governing companies. The bill also extends the possibility of allocation to cooperatives established under the law governing cooperatives. The cooperatives have so far been unjustifiably released from the legal regime for no adequate substantive reason. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we insisted on incorporating guidance from the Smart Specialisation Strategy into the law system. The law will have to take into account the comparative advantages of the domestic economy by limiting the decision-making process to the areas and vision of the Smart Specialisation Strategy, whose activities are focused on sustainable development, ensuring the achievement of climate objectives and developing a sustainable economy. The process of drafting the new law started in spring 2016. At that time, despite the fact that demand or the need to grant State aid to certain companies in difficulty has continued to come from the economic sector, due to the existence of an old State aid scheme on MGRT they have not been able to grant such aid. In this regard, a number of roles have been raised for companies waiting for priority treatment. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we have decided to support the proposal of the Law on Aid for the Rescue and Restructuring of Economic Companies and Cooperatives in Trouble. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Breznik will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u78	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. Respectable colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests! In the third reading, we have before us a proposal for a law on aid for the rescue and restructuring of companies and cooperatives in difficulty. The purpose of this law is to enable companies and cooperatives in difficulties that play an important systemic role in the development of the country, region or sector and enable long-term viability on the market, job conservation, knowledge acquired and active, proportionate participation of market stakeholders. Aid to companies and cooperatives in difficulty shall be granted exceptionally, in accordance with the principles of economy, transparency, the necessity to ensure economic and social cohesion. Let me say that a small or medium-sized company or cooperative defined as small or medium sized in the Annex to Commission Regulation (EU) No. 651/2014 of 17 June 2014 declaring certain types of aid compatible with the internal market in application of Articles 107 and 108 of the Treaty. The law defines rescue and restructuring under this law, thus defining assistance at the time of the preparation of the company’s restructuring programme or cooperative, aid for the implementation of the restructuring programme. The forms of aid which are of interest to rescue and restructuring under this Act are set out in Article 5 and define loans, subsidies, guarantees and capital investments. Article 6 of this Act defines the amount of rescue and restructuring aid limited to the minimum amount that guarantees the long-term, viability and survival of a company or cooperative in difficulty on the market. Let me say that in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have not already opposed this law in both readings; we have a different view of economic recovery; we see, above all, a solution within the framework of an encouraging tax policy. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are aware that we must strive to reduce bureaucratic barriers and encourage, including the educational system that will give some basis to companies, individuals or cooperatives at the level of our country. I can say that such a law as this is before us is some last article in other domestic tasks that we have to do in the Slovenian economic space in order to become a more competitive business environment. As I have already said at the beginning and in all stages of the adoption of this law, the Slovenian Democratic Party does not often oppose important economic laws. The law before us, which also has a few obstacles, has always found in such laws, even in the past, that some companies have received large economic aid. With these economic aids, they did nothing and did not make a breakthrough on the market, they did not become a better exporter, and most of the time they ended up in various bankruptcy proceedings. Finally, let me say that this law brings some news. This novelty, which my predecessors have also talked about, of one-off aid, one-time and never again, gives us a commitment. It is precisely because of this adoption of this law that we will not oppose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr Uroš Prikl will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u80	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! In the Desus Group, we have not so far opposed this law, but we have supported it; and we still support it. We believe that the law is prepared to be effective, we want to implement this law consistently, and we want the positive effects themselves. With the amendments that we have made or improved this law, we believe that this is the right way and that it will achieve its purpose. Moreover, we believe that it is high time for the State to offer its aid deadline to the economic sector; not only to the banking sector or to the banks that have been or are still in need. The latest data from 2015, as far as I can see, for the rescue and restructuring of companies show that the country has spent almost EUR 100 million, if we are more precise – slightly more than EUR 97 million. The question that comes to us here is what happens to those companies once they get this help. In practice, we are aware of cases where a number of such failures, despite the fact that the company has received an extensive part of the financial aid, have failed to achieve its objective of somehow getting out of a meager financial problem or debt. In the Desus Group, we are particularly concerned about the fact that it is not only millions of money invested, I am talking about tax money; it is also about the fates of employees and, consequently, the fates of their families, whose survival depends precisely on how the individual enterprise, also important for the region and beyond, will work. In the second reading of the bill, we have pointed out the fact that the social distress and uncertainty of an individual is not only an individual’s problem, just an individual’s problem; it is a problem of the whole society or of the whole country. Therefore, in our Group of Members, it seems more than reasonable and wise to respect the general conditions for the granting of rescue and restructuring aid. In our view, the system of allocation of financial resources should be designed in a manner that is timely, sufficiently transparent and in particular timely to the recipient in need. To the proverb Who is quick to give, twice that in this place is more than reasonable to warn. For those companies that have already received State aid, however, it is interesting to see their epilogue whether companies have successfully recovered or have been able to regain their feet and live as they thought. We therefore need to control the state aid granted, as well as to keep the company's operations under constant review. Since we are working for the long-term sustainability of successful results in our parliamentary group, we will also unanimously support the bill, as I said at the outset, in the hope that the law will be effective and, above all, that it will be implemented in a consistent and transparent manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec will present the position of the Joint Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u82	Thank you, Vice President. The Law on rescue and restructuring aid for companies and cooperatives in difficulty does not make any significant progress; nor can it, in fact, as long as the restrictive logic of European Union law and the ideology of the free market are subordinated to the role of the economy. Indeed, the European Union rules hamper the development and preservation of jobs. The Ministry only allocates a few million a year, although state aid in restructuring could save a lot of jobs. This unfair European framework of state aid has some clear purpose – to ensure competitiveness only on the shoulders of workers and workers. In addition, the European State aid framework also provides leverage for privatisation. Again and again we can mention the case of NKBM, which was recapitalised by the government in 2013 alone with EUR 870 million. Then Cerar’s team sold the bank, which had some €650 million of book value, for 250 million. And who? The venture capital fund. It is also important to note the double criteria in force in the European Union. In France, companies do not sell speculative financial funds that lower wages and then fire workers. In Slovenia this is understood as some kind of commitment to the European Union. Slovenia may grant State aid to Revoz; Elan may not grant it. These are the facts, these are the double criteria of the European Union and this is also the policy of the Government of Mir Cerar. Although there is one positive change in this law, the marriage came in the name of the law. This makes cooperatives classified as potential beneficiaries of State aid. But we must not rejoice too soon. Our cooperative sector is neglected and the granting of state aid is very restrictive. In fact, it is very unlikely that this law will have any impact on the functioning of our cooperatives, even because, despite the great promises of economic democracy in practice, this government has not done anything yet. Let's just remind ourselves of the coalition contract, I quote: "Project No. 9: Promoting the development of social entrepreneurship, society and economic democracy.” The cabinet of the Government even employs the Secretary of State for this area, but the result of this government in this area, in the area of economic democracy, deserves an underestimation so far. Without discussion and without one argument, the Coalition rejected the revised law on the participation of workers in governance proposed in the United Left. The Coalition allows companies such as Adria Airways Technology to be privatised by management even by the applicable Law on the participation of workers in management. In particular, during the time of this government, there was also a number of missed opportunities for solving businesses by setting up either labour or consumer cooperatives or by actively interventioning the country. Let me remind you of Shower, Mercator or Novoles. Let me mention once again the case of Adrie Airways Technika, where labor buy was a real possibility, but the state institution rather sold the company to an unknown Polish buyer who got rid of virtually all the workers who actively sought to buy it. If Slovenia is indeed lagging behind good European practices, these are cooperatives, social entrepreneurship and the rest of the collaborative economy. This is not only because it is the most sustainable way to maintain jobs, but also because, with the principle of One Man, one voice of democracy is also involved in the job. However, cooperatives are often much better integrated into the local environment and are sustainable. In the United Left, we will not oppose the law because, of course, any tool to help businesses and cooperatives is welcome; however, we are opposed to a European forced jacket that is detrimental to social development in general, and especially, most importantly, to the welfare of workers and workers.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u83	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the draft law as a whole. Mr. Danilo Anton Ranc has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u84	President, thank you for your word. Not to repeat the words that I have spoken earlier when we are discussing economic issues, this hall is often empty. I now reiterate this criticism to Members who do not pay enough attention to such important topics. We forget that the economy is the foundation of our country, our economy and so on. Of course, I do not underestimate other sectors, but we forget as much as we create in the economy, we will have as much to share and we will have such a society. Nevertheless, I welcome the team from the Ministry, almost more than the Members here. I appreciate their contribution, both teams and ministries, to the preparation of this good law, which in some ways recognizes that companies in some society that do not have an environment for some normal development may also be in difficulty in certain situations. Here is the Ministry of Economy, which at the moment is also doing an excellent job and recognizing – I will not say – mistakes from the past, creating a friendly environment for the development of companies and at the same time creating legislation that allows for the possibility of these mistakes from the past, which have generated some problems for economic societies, also eliminating them. Every economic growth generates the development of a society and, with the help of economic companies that have gone into trouble, we are just going to allow them to re-emerge and, on the basis of a new approach to business in some economic environment, contribute to greater economic growth. As I have already said, the Ministry of Economy and Technology is precisely about creating conditions for the economy, the development of companies and a more environmentally friendly environment for the development of the economy. Here, too, I would like to have an even greater competence of the ministry, which, by preparing such a law in some way, provides the conditions for the development and rehabilitation of companies. The predecessor’s comment must also be relevant, which also drew attention to the level of funds available for this fund or for helping firms in difficulty. I will certainly make sure that the level of funds for this purpose is increased and that the ministry in this regard has an even greater power and power to help firms in difficulty and to create conditions for economic growth. This should also be taken into account when adopting the budget. In addition to accepting a number of strategic documents in Slovenia, from economic development strategies, smart specialisations and so on, we have seen in the past that sometimes the documents were meant for themselves. Just by introducing certain criteria from these strategic documents into this law, I see a quality approach. When the strategy foresees something, certain measures contained in this strategy are applied in this law. In this sense, I think that this is the right solution to take into account, in the criteria for the allocation of these funds, companies or industries included in the Smart Specialisation Strategy. Here I draw attention to opportunities in the field of tourism and the wood industry, because these are two industries that have excellent opportunities for the development of the country of Slovenia as a whole based on the natural resources that we have in Slovenia. It is logical, of course, that long-term strategic guidance companies from these two sectors are given certain options and treatments under this legislation. If I conclude, I consider this law to be a good contribution to creating conditions for better economic growth and to provide assistance to companies directly from those sectors that we see as the biggest opportunity in Slovenia. In this context, I would like to reiterate my appreciation to the Ministry of the Economy for the drafting of this law, and I wish them more successful projects and laws in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u85	Thank you very much. We are moving to the conclusion of the debate in which he gets the word of a representative of the Government. State Secretary Eva Stravs Podlogar, do you want? [[No, no, ……]] The time for discussion has not yet run out, so I ask those present if anyone else would like to discuss it? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. Then I conclude the debate on the bill as a whole. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. The assembly will decide on the draft law in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 2nd item of the agenda. I'm breaking up with this point 5 of the agenda. We're moving to nine. At the end of the day, it's a second-hand proposal for a law on the pricing of petroleum derivatives, an orderly procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 6 Members and Members with Mr Miho Kordis. With regard to this bill, the Committee on the Economy proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to Mrs Andreja Potočnik, President of the Committee, to further explain the proposal for a decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u86	President, thank you for your word. Dear Secretary of State with co-worker, colleague and colleague! The Committee on the Economy is at its 22nd session. 1. 2017 as a parent labour body treated the above-mentioned proposal of the law. The Committee was provided with the following material: the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Economic Affairs, Crafts, Tourism and Finance and the opinion of the Government. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the amendments to the bill were tabled by the Joint Left Group. With regard to the proposed solutions, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology explained that the proposal for a law is similar to the previous regulation which provides for the regulation of the prices of petroleum derivatives and is therefore contrary to the Government's decision to deregulation of the prices of petroleum derivatives. The government therefore considers it unfit for further consideration. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service explained at the meeting the written opinion of the Service and stressed that the amendments tabled were clearer in drawing up the articles to which the comments of the Service were made and correcting incorrect references. In addition, a distinction is being made to the Price Control Act and, on the basis of this repealed sub-law, to the part governing the list of goods subject to price control. The President of the Commission of the State Council for Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance explained below that the Commission does not support the proposed law and presented the key reasons for this. It further explained on behalf of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia that the Chamber was the holder of the study on the basis of which it requested the Ministry to assess the appropriateness of the time to introduce deregulation of the prices of petroleum derivatives. The Ministry has decided to gradually introduce price deregulation, which the Chamber agrees with. At the meeting, the representative of the Slovenian Consumer Union stressed that the Union of Consumers in principle supports competition and the free market; but only when it affects consumer welfare. He drew attention to the lack of arguments for deregulation in favour of consumers. The discussion expressed the view expressed by the applicant that the deregulation of oil derivatives prices would lead to an increase in their prices, a deterioration in consumer situation and a fall in revenues from the state budget. On the contrary, some discussers felt that a gradual deregulation of prices was necessary as it would help to increase competition in the oil market and the favourable business environment. The opinion was also expressed that the draft law violated the rule of law and was not suitable for further consideration. The Committee therefore discussed and decided on a proposal for a decision that the proposal for a law was not suitable for further consideration. In the discussion before the vote on the proposed decision, some members of the Committee supported price deregulation and considered it excessively feared that oil suppliers would raise the price. The view was also expressed that the government should act towards full deregulation of prices, but rather take measures in the field of excise policy. Some discussers pointed out that the proposal does not support the law because the transposition of such measures into the legal framework is not the right way. On the contrary, some members of the Committee and the proposers felt that, in the event of deregulation, margins and prices of oil derivatives would rise. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted, pursuant to Article 128(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that the proposal for a law on the pricing of petroleum derivatives was not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u87	Thank you very much. I'd ask the family over there if you could lower your voice a little. In order to present my position on the proposal of the parent working body, I give the floor to the representative of the drafters of the bill to Mr Mihi Kordiš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u88	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. The government has decided to raise the price of petrol, diesel and heating oil for Slovenian citizens and citizens. It removes the maximum margin limit for oil traders. This process began with an April session, deregulation of the price of 100-octane petrol and fuel oil. Indeed, it did not take long to wait for the next steps to be taken when the price of fuel at the highway and along the fast roads was deregulation. In the United Left, we certainly oppose this because it is a classic lobbying measure. The removal of the highest margins of oil derivatives will not benefit anyone except the OMV and Petrol oligopolist, who will be able to drive prices unpunished. Everyone else will. We'll pull a shorter one. There are other sectors of the economy that will raise costs. Here is a state budget that will suffer the loss of public finances and there are drivers, drivers, our fellow citizens and fellow citizens who will know their fuel prices on their wallets. Of course, the measure of deregulation of the prices of petroleum derivatives is the logical policy of the neoliberal Minister of Rest. From a social point of view, however, it is completely pointless and harmful. After the testimony or even after the European Commission's recognition in 2014, we have one of the best operating systems in Slovenia to determine the prices of petroleum derivatives, so we can all heat and drive together more cheaply than we would otherwise. In its arguments, the Ministry cites the very generalised free-market flossules, where the limit on the highest margins will release the suffocated market, so that new players will enter our suppliers and hence the prices of oil derivatives will be lowered. I'm sorry, it's a cruel deception. Whoever wants to sell oil derivatives on the Slovenian market can now offer a lower price, because only the highest margin is limited, not the lowest. Anyone who wants to compete at lower prices can do so now. And we can see that the removal of the highest margins means nothing more than an increase in the prices of petrol, fuel oil and diesel. Nothing else. Of course, there will be someone who will say, and look what has been happening on the highway in recent months. Prices have practically not risen, regulation is working. But for the first time, if we deregulated the prices of oil derivatives at the highway crossing, prices did not rise why this deregulation was even necessary. Why did you have to remove the highest margins if prices didn't go up? And secondly, I will offer the answer to that question. Simply because the oil traders, these oligopolies, especially the already mentioned OMV and Petrol, are sufficiently woven, they do not want to alarm and alert the Slovenian public about what is going on or what is going to happen. They are cleverly waiting for the government, for which the neoliberal Minister of Restoration, to deregulation of the prices of petroleum derivatives, to be fully and fully implemented, and then to begin the spontaneous prices. 300,000 citizens and citizens in Slovenia live below the poverty risk threshold. But these people also use public transportation to go to work and to move around the country, to use personal cars, to heat themselves with burning oil. That's why we have energy poverty behind our vocals. We have repeatedly come to the United Left with the initiative to reintroduce regulation because it is a harmful measure practically for all; except for oil oligopolies. This time we've tried the law and we're asking for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u89	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to present my position on the proposal of the parent working body. State Secretary Eva Stravs Podlogar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u90	Honourable Presidents, honourable Members and Members. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia received an opinion on the proposal for a law on the pricing of petroleum derivatives submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 16 November 2016 for consideration by the Group of Members and Members. According to the Group of Members and Members, the purpose of the proposal for a law is to introduce price regulation for 95-octane unleaded motor gasoline, 98- or multi-octane unleaded motor gasoline used in road or maritime transport, diesel fuel and extra light combustion oil. With regard to the solutions proposed, I would like to explain the following. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia advocates a competitive economy and the free operation of businesses on the market. The proposal for a law is largely similar to the former regulation on the pricing of certain oil derivatives. The draft law thus provides for the reregulation of the prices of all oil derivatives, contrary to the recently adopted decision of the Government on the gradual deregulation or liberalisation of the prices of petroleum derivatives. The measures provided for in the Price Control Act, which provides for the adoption of successive regulations on the pricing of petroleum derivatives, are exceptional in nature and should last for a maximum period of 6-12 months, followed by a gradual abolition of those measures. In Slovenia, however, gas prices have been regulated under this law since April 2000, i.e. for more than 15 years. Currently, only the prices of the only textbooks per class are regulated in Slovenia in addition to the prices of certain oil derivatives. In recent years other energy markets, such as electricity, natural gas, and district heating, have also been deregulated or systematically regulated. Feared that oil distributors would significantly increase margins after price liberalisation and thus increase retail prices of petroleum derivatives, there are several reasons why. Let us explain that the margin in the overall structure of the retail price of petroleum derivatives represents only 6 %, which means that the final retail price is largely dependent on other price variables, in particular on the price of oil on global markets and the price of excise duty, which represents around 40% in the retail price structure. The world market price for oil, together with taxes, represents around 90% of the retail price and therefore the possible margin increase would have a relatively small impact on the final price of individual oil derivatives. In other words, the final retail price of petroleum derivatives depends to a large extent on other variables. The price of oil in Slovenia, as elsewhere in the European Union, depends mainly on the price of oil on the world market and on the amount of the other charges that make up the final price. Before any further decisions, i.e. the reregulation of oil derivatives prices or further liberalisation, we will carry out an analysis of the consequences of price release in 2016. While the Government of the Republic of Slovenia may reintroduce the regulation of the prices of petroleum derivatives if the actual impact of the free operation of the prices of petroleum derivatives on the market would result in a greater negative impact on public finances, the economy and the household, as previously foreseen. The aim of the State is to establish a normal functioning market where market mechanisms and competition between oil derivatives distributors can be established. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia therefore opposes the solutions contained in the proposal for a law on the pricing of petroleum derivatives submitted by a group of Members and Members and considers that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u91	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, on her behalf, Mr Franc Laj.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u92	Dear Prime Minister, representatives of the Ministry, Members and Members of Parliament, the rest of you in attendance, all of you, have a nice greeting! We do not support the proposed law in the Group of Non-Related Members because we are in favour of liberalising the prices of oil derivatives, a competitive economy and the free functioning of companies on the market. We are in favour of establishing market mechanisms and healthy price competition between oil distributors. In such a business environment, companies dealing with the distribution and sale of other energy products, such as electricity, natural gas and remote heating, are already operating. We must be aware that the country is still largely regulating the prices of petroleum derivatives because the share of the margin under deregulation is relatively small compared to the final price and is on average around 6%. The second fact is that price regulation applies only to the sale of gas services at the motorway cross. It is a very important fact that Slovenia is an extremely transit country because of its geographical position, because it runs the Kiev-Barcelona corridor and is extremely intensive road transport. And here we see in the parliamentary group that it is very important that these vehicles fuel with us and not abroad. Why? Since, in the case of the increased volume of sales, the increased size of the economy can be expected to have positive economic effects, as well as public financial effects, inflows to the state budget. It is very important if we really want to achieve competitive prices in this area, so that a country with a suitable tax system makes sure that tax and excise burdens are also reduced and that this will contribute to making the price of oil derivatives more competitive. All these reasons are important in our decision. As I said at the outset, that is why we do not support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u93	Mr Danilo Anton Ranc will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u94	Dear Prime Minister, distinguished representatives of the Ministry, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Republic of Slovenia, in addition to oil derivatives, only textbook prices are currently regulated for individual subjects or modules in a class, year or programme. However, electricity, natural gas and district heating markets were deregulated. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we find that this solution is the only right one and that it also introduces the market economy and offers and demand in this segment. An argument is made in the position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that there is a free development of retail prices of petroleum derivatives in almost all European Union countries, which means that the prices of petroleum derivatives are deregulated and that the role of the State is reduced to tax and excise duties. The prices of oil derivatives in Slovenia have been established according to the prescribed methodology since 2000. Seven. 11. In 2016, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a regulation at its 145th meeting deregulation of the market for petroleum derivatives in that area of the motorway cross. In 2016, in the area of Slovenia, the price of heating oil and 98-octane gasoline was deregulated. It is a multi-phase liberalisation of the prices of petroleum derivatives, which is being implemented gradually. To date, no significant price increase could be observed. In the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, we have supported the conclusion of the coalition partners that the government is preparing an analysis of changes in the prices of oil derivatives. In this way we will get information on the further direction of the pricing policy for oil derivatives. In the meantime, when we expect the results of the analysis, the Joint Left Group has introduced a law on the pricing of oil derivatives into the parliamentary procedure. The objective of the proposal is to re-establish price regulation. They also advocate the transfer of competence to the National Assembly to decide on this issue from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. With regard to the transfer of competences, I quote the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service: “The possibility of a public intervention in the free pricing is systematically regulated by the Price Control Act, which leaves the use of illegal price-setting measures to the Government. The proposed legislation thus re-establishes an already regulated relationship. Since this does not at the same time govern the relationship between the two laws, which are adapted in terms of the hierarchy of legal acts, there may be a conflict between the two laws, which, as such, violates the principle of the rule of law of Article 2 of the Constitution.” We respect the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. However, the final decision towards deregulation will only be drawn up after a thorough analysis of the oil derivatives price analysis prepared by the Ministry of Economy. We have always advocated an open market, without unnecessary administrative obstacles and regulations in the Group of the Modern Centre Party, which will make it easier for the economy to breathe. At the same time, it advocates consumer interest so that it is possible to reintroduce regulation if the actual impact of free pricing of oil derivatives on the market would have a greater negative impact on public finances, the economy and the household. The proposal of the Joint Left Group, which is only a regulation and does not take into account the comprehensive analysis of the market in petroleum derivatives, which requires the observation of a certain period of price movement, will not be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u95	Mr Franz Breznik will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! We have before us the proposal for a law on the pricing of oil derivatives proposed by the United Left. Let me begin by saying that the proposal for a law is a school case of misunderstanding of the market economy, returning at times and imitating some models that have never worked in life. Already a picture of the species of Slovenes and Slovenes in Austria's Koroška or Austria's Styria on their gas service shows that something with our model of accounting for oil derivatives prices is wrong. In recent years, the Austrians have developed a so-called dynamic accounting model, which adapts daily, is free-marketed. Let me say that certain restrictions, criteria and guidelines apply to petrol service operators since the publication of the prices of liquid fuels, which was last amended on 21 March, in determining prices since 2011. It is very precise when prices should be increased. This can only be increased once a day in Austria, at 12 p.m., not during holidays. As you know, prices are falling all day long, prices in neighbouring Austria are mostly lower in the evening. Let me say that the views of the Slovenian Democratic Party can be clear to the citizens. We always advocate a free-market economy, for competition and consequently for lower prices of goods services and work in the Republic of Slovenia. The bill, which says prices will increase, of course, is not true. Competition must be established in Slovenia. The fact that we are talking in 2017 about deregulation of oil derivatives prices is a sad consequence of the transition, in particular of two major former communist companies, which, with the help of policy, have plowed the ice and defied competition in some way that does not have some real basis. Today this is the consequence here, so it is essential to deregulation of the prices of petroleum derivatives. Let me say that there is another sad protector, that even if these two suppliers raised the prices of petroleum derivatives, we are talking mainly about diesel or gasoline with 98 or 95 octanes, there is a reserve for Slovenian citizens as once that they can go to Austria to pour fuel, which is what is already happening. We therefore consider and give guidance to the government. We agree with deregulation, but we can calculate according to a dynamic model that the problem is margins that are too low and, on the other hand, too much excise duty; both on the basis of oil derivatives and on the basis of the prices of tobacco products and all other alcohol services. People get distracted, Austrian buyers don't come to Slovenia. We are, as the speaker said before me, a transit country; our transit positions and an optimized model of price calculation are not yet available, and this is a specific feature of the Republic of Slovenia. And it's less. This means less excise duty, more margin room for manoeuvre, as a result our petrol services can adapt to Austria, neighbouring Croatia or Italy; daily. And this must be a model that will have to be in force in the future in the Republic of Slovenia. If you do not have “Spielraum”, as the Germans would say, a manoeuvre space, then our suppliers of oil derivatives at this time cannot adapt because the margin is so low that they cannot compete with Austrian suppliers across the border. The current biggest consequence is that there is no such pressure in Ljubljana; petrol services at the borders, especially in the environment where I come from, our part of Styria, Radgona, Lenart and others, citizens are already going to Austria. It is similar on the Slovenian Koroška side, where they go to Austria's Koroška. Our model is not good, deregulation, just the first step, we are talking about complete deregulation, and the next step must also establish a competition guardian who must set some criteria so that other oil derivatives providers can come and operate marketably in our business environment. Therefore, as I said at the outset, the proposal for a law on the pricing of oil derivatives prepared by the United Left cannot be supported in any way in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u97	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Tomaž Gantar, on her behalf. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! In opening, let me say that in the Desus Group we do not agree with the policy of deregulation of the prices of petroleum derivatives, because we simply believe that we do not meet the conditions for appropriate competitiveness in this area and therefore the effects may be contrary to what we want to achieve. We therefore expect that the government will not take any further decisions in this direction without the right arguments. After the first phase of deregulation, which took place in April last year by the Government Regulation, we have requested that the competent ministry, with a conclusion on the home working body, continue the process of full liberalisation of the oil derivatives market, to examine in detail all the possible effects of that regulation. We have requested a comprehensive analysis that will make further decisions easier and, above all, remove doubts about the possible negative consequences of deregulation of oil derivatives prices. Since the Slovenian dual market for oil suppliers does not allow for positive competition, the concern about the possible long-term rise in fuel prices is entirely justified in our opinion. In the Desus Group, we are aware of the fact that the negative effects of deregulation will mainly fall on the shoulders of the final consumers. However, by deregulation without the right arguments, the country is refusing to control prices that may have a negative impact on the economy itself and on all of us. However, the government has taken a different path, before the conclusion of the analysis of the possible effects of deregulation, by means of a new regulation, which began the second phase of free market pricing in autumn. Why was the decision so hasty, despite the question raised by the Member States, we have not received an appropriate and reasoned answer to this day. Although the drafters state very similar reasons regarding the negative consequences of the deregulation of the prices of petroleum derivatives, in the Desus Group we estimate that the proposed legislation does not make sense, since it is almost identical to the current system of regulation with sub-legislative acts. We cannot agree with the proposal to return to the starting point in the proposed way. However, we hope that the government will in fact take time before the definitive and comprehensive deregulation of oil derivatives prices to analyse the consequences of the deregulation of these prices so far adopted. For this reason, in the Desus Group, we agree with the decision taken on the home working body that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. At the same time, we reiterate that we will not support such swift government decisions in the Desus Group in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u99	Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec will present the position of the Joint Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u100	Thank you, Vice President. The fact that deregulation of the prices of oil derivatives for the country and citizens is a detrimental measure is a single profession, consumer organisations and also those government services that have prepared studies on the consequences of such a policy on public finances. The only ones who disagree with this are oil lobbying on the one hand and their mercenaries on the other. Of course, that makes sense. They are the only ones who will benefit from price deregulation. The government has clearly stepped on their side and the falanga of neoliberal apologists under the leadership of Minister Restovalska is determined to increase their profits at higher fuel prices, which we will all pay. For professional arguments, even their own, they are not taken up and with religious zeal they repeat floscules about the salvation of the free market. This forced us in the United Left to file the law that we are considering today and which is intended to reintroduce price regulation for all oil derivatives. The chronic argument for price deregulation is that this will bring competition to the oil derivatives market. As a result, the long-term margins of traders should not be raised or, in their view, at the current level. The government therefore acknowledges, on the one hand, that prices will undoubtedly rise; on the other hand, that the measure, if not already harmful, is at least pointless because margins will remain at the same level. In addition, we are convinced that the fact that, after deregulation of the prices on the motorway cross, the margins have not been raised is evidence that this will also be the case in the event of a complete deregulation. However, it is precisely the fact that the margins of all suppliers at the motorway cross remain exactly the same as the Regulation on certain maximum margins on other sales services, proof that we have a duopol which contractually maintains prices at the same level and that the market has no impact on the margin. Traders are smart, waiting for a state of complete deregulation. If we raised margins along the highway, we could, for a short period, increase the profit from the sale of fuel on these petrol services; and in the medium term, we would lose much more profits from sales on all petrol services. The best example of what lies ahead for us in the event of complete deregulation is the movement of a fully deregulated price of fuel oil. Last spring and most of the summer were still comparable to other members. Therefore, traders took advantage of the first half of September and the second half of October when, in order to encourage other fuels, the buyers assumed that the fuel oil would also be encouraged. Then, in the first half of September, the prices of heating oil decreased by slightly less than 3% throughout the European Union, for example, by 2.5% in Austria; in Slovenia, prices increased by 10% during this period. However, since the price of gasoline rose simultaneously, customers of the fuel oil could expect higher prices of the fuel oil; thus, the drastic increase in the margin remained undetected. The government and the right are convincing us that deregulation of oil derivatives prices is necessary because fuel prices are much higher in our country than in neighbouring countries where prices are already deregulated. This is true, but this is due to high fuel taxes, which remain unchanged with price deregulation. Only the maximum allowed margin is lifted, which traders can account for themselves, which operates in the oligopolistic market. This margin is the lowest in Europe, but it is considered limited only upstream. Any cheaper, if you want to compete more, the supplier could already sell fuel cheaper, but because of oligopolo, only few choose to do so. We are moving this maximum allowed margin through our proposal for a law from a sub-legislative to a legislative level. The purpose of this law is to prevent harmful and to underpin the Government's ideological decision to deregulation of oil derivatives prices. We will therefore vote against the conclusion that the law is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u101	Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u102	Mr President, representatives of the Ministry, Members and Members of Parliament! In the Republic of Slovenia, the system of socio-market economy is supposed to apply. Nevertheless, our legal arrangements are still far from market economy principles. One of these areas is the regulation of the prices of petroleum derivatives. Thank God this is one of the areas where price regulation withdraws in principle from the free market. In recent times, the government has gradually phased out the pricing system for oil derivatives through several measures, as we welcome Christian Democrats. That is why in Novi Slovenija we oppose the measures contained in the proposal for a law on pricing of petroleum derivatives, which restores the situation in this area at a time of limiting free pricing. The proposal introduces a margin limit for 95-octane unleaded motor gasoline, 98- or multi-octane unleaded motor gasoline, diesel and extra light combustion oil. In view of the socialist political orientation of the United Left, which is the drafter in this bill, we understand their aspirations for re-regulation of prices on the market. Such a proposal may appeal to a lot of people at first sight, but such a sharp restriction is contrary to the basic principles of the functioning of the market economy on which successful global economies are based. Restricting the prices of petroleum derivatives also constitutes an intervention in the constitutional right to free economic initiative. Any such intervention must be justified by strong arguments that would be useful to him. The argument for a measure that would so severely affect the socio-market economy system, we do not see the proposal for a law in New Slovenia. In a study prepared by Dr. Igor Masten and Dr. Aljos Feldin, the authors found that the potential for price increases due to deregulation was limited. The reasons for the limited margin increase in the event of price liberalisation are, after their study at a high level of taxation in relation to border markets, the high response to demand for derivatives in Slovenia, the price of smallness and the express transit nature of the Slovenian market and the possible entry of new providers. In Slovenia, we must separate ourselves from the idea that there is always and everywhere a state intervention, that almost endlessly it is necessary to regulate and interfere with any social or economic activity that takes place in our country. For interfering with the market system and the constitutional right to free economic initiative, which such regulation of the prices of petroleum derivatives brings, we do not see any valid reasons in Novi Slovenija. Therefore, we will not support the proposal for a law on pricing of oil derivatives.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u103	We have completed the presentations on the views of the Group. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 2nd item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that we will begin consideration of item 2 at 2 p.m. I'm adjourning the 26th session of the National Assembly, which we'll resume in an hour and a half at 2 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u104	Dear Members, honourable Members! We continue with the adjourned session of the National Assembly. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on foreigners, an urgent procedure. Procedurally, Mr. Franz Jurša. [[advertising from the hall]] I'll give you both my word, and then I'll answer. Please, Mr. Franz Jursha.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u105	Thank you very much, President for your word. I have now taken a closer look at the Rules of Procedure and have also looked at the powers of the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. It is true that you call and guide the meetings of the National Assembly. I also saw that you could interrupt the session, but since you are first among the same, it would be right and fair for us, Members and Members to tell us why you interrupted the meeting for almost two hours. That would be right and fair. I get the feeling more and more if someone takes that chair up there, then loses some sort of judgment in such matters. And I ask you kindly, Mr President, I hope that we are so valuable to inform us why you did this.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u106	The word is from Dr. Franz Trček, also for procedural purposes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u107	Thank you for your word. I thank the speaker in front of me who took up the question I wanted to ask. However, I hope, given the fact that I was sick two days ago towards the end of the meeting of the Committee, the Minister has literally said that it doesn't matter whether you understood me about this law, that this interruption, which took some time, and we are not sure why this happened, has contributed to my understanding of this law. The President of the National Assembly, we have some big problem in citing this national assembly that ministers and ministers are very reluctant to go to this temple of democracy, as some people like to call it, but not so generously co-created. Even with secretary of state and secretary, there are problems. We have trouble answering our questions or then going to some personal level, what the Styrians, we others, will think of us Styrians, as the Minister for Environment and Space would say. Therefore, I hope, Presidents, that, on behalf of all of us as the first of the same, you will somehow expropriate, if I so express to us that the executive authority is to explain whether there are any obvious – as your party's visible member and the doctor of law have said – unnecessary, unnecessary. Like I said at the session, I don't have a problem if someone personally insults me on the chics, whether the Duck is from the tablet or on or on boards, up and down. However, I have great problems that someone such as Madam Minister is insulting the role of Members. In some relatively normal democracy, a fourth branch of power would have destroyed it – the media would have destroyed it within 24 hours and would have already resigned. My procedural question is one that is identical to that of my colleague in front of me. And one recommendation is that the executive power, whatever it is and at this point the one who is here, ceases to make a fool of the National Assembly and ceases to oppose the constitutional parliamentary democracy that we still have formally in this society and country. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u108	First of all, I must say that this interruption was not due to this law, although when we spoke internally about these matters, we anticipated that this point would start exactly from 2 p.m. This was most likely at the more internal coordination of the coalition, not at the point of the entire National Assembly. My mistake is that this has not been recorded in the course of the meeting of the National Assembly, so I must apologize. But there was another obligation that I had as President of the National Assembly. And since this point is so important, I wanted to start running this point on my own. So that I could reconcile with one another, it was also some kind of agreement, but of an internal nature. That's how much I say. Another obligation, which is at least as important for the presentation of the National Assembly in its relations with other social actors and with international partners, which, in view of what we are dealing with today, have their opinions; but this is not so terribly important. In fact, you're defending this country's face in any case, regardless of what happens to this law today. However, another part of the procedural matters that were, at this point, would not comment; but would have gone well forward with the presentation, because the business conditions for us to deal with this law exist. And that moment is most important at this stage of the process. You're familiar with the position. The views of the National Choir are known, at least those relevant. It is expected that, in the relationship between executive and legislative powers, in particular within the legislative branch of government, such a law as Members of the National Assembly shall adopt. I don't have any other things here that I could comment on at this point. Procedurally, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u109	Thank you for your word, chairman. At least we know very well, and probably someone else in this reference to Article 153 of the Constitution. I won't read it. At the meeting of the home working body of the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government, the Vice-President of their Legal Service was, in effect, a vice-president of their legal service. He is also a prominent member of one of the parties sitting in the National Assembly. There's nothing wrong with that, legally, legitimately. And we kind of expected him to clear up all the constitutional dilemmas about this law. He didn't do it. On my proposal, at least let us have a written opinion from the government to be clarified before deciding whether or not it is a constitutional disputed matter – by the way, the chairman, from the Modern Centre Party – has not responded properly. Therefore, I ask that the session be suspended for 45 minutes and that a written opinion be delivered to us from the government in the meantime. Because I think we're dealing with some very serious problem to do this the way I do it, I'm going to use the words in my mother tongue, Baba showed. I can't make this law properly if the minister tells me it doesn't matter whether I understand it or not. I can't even decide if someone tells me – oh, that's all the obvious, we've demented them; if someone doesn't give me these denials in the argument process. And it seems to me that it is high time for all of us to throw away the filthy spiders, the extravagant theatricality and focus on our primary work. And for my primary work, I need this document and I'm asking you to get it for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u110	You know that with the introduction of the act, there are also documents going through the government's legislative service. Formally speaking, you have its position and, on the other hand, the position of the Legislative and Legal Service. As a matter of procedure, I certainly cannot request any further opinion from the Government's Legislative Service. But I've studied what was going on on the board, and I'm going to study a little bit more precisely. But the relationship between the government's legislative service and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly came this time into a very unusual disagreement that never happens in normal procedures. However, I must study this matter to the end so that, if necessary, I can defend the autonomy of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly in relation to the Government as a whole. This service is autonomous, and this service will remain autonomous, and no one will put undue pressure on it. And that's what I can say right now; what I can't do anymore, because I have to study exactly 50 pages of the magnetogram. When I examine this, I will be able to give another opinion on some other initiatives that have been given. I think it is appropriate to proceed with the procedure at this time and not proceed with the procedural process. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, procedurally, I presume.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u111	Thank you very much. President, I'm not going to complicate this, because I think we have to go to the most important marriage; I just feel like something's wrong. If Jurša as a coalition member asks why we stopped the meeting if Mr German has not said why we interrupted the meeting. You said you had some responsibilities, which I understand. You have the right to know that the President of the National Assembly can interrupt for two hours, there is no way that you will challenge him, he has this right. You explained that you had some very important obligations. And when I look up here at the balcony, there were three high schools, I hope it's not that; there's nothing on your schedule. But I heard in the halls that you were fighting at the Modern Center Party, and that that's why we interrupted the meeting for two hours. It would be fair if you could tell us why you interrupted the meeting. But you have this right, and that's true, because in the end, we have two vice presidents who are perfectly fine and able to hold a meeting. Citizens deserve a fair answer. However, you have the right to interrupt for two more hours, and you must also receive and know this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u112	Certainly, what you suspected was not the reason I would have interrupted the session. As I said, there was a technical error that my instruction that this should be put into the timeline was not clearly set. Frankly, I have met with the Škofov Conference in preparation for the Vatican visit; this is where I was and am also excused. [[advertising from the hall]] I've explained enough about this. Mr. Franz Jursha, procedurally, I presume.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u113	Mr President, I thank you for the information you have provided. But still, we have two vice-presidents elected in this National Assembly, unfortunately we don't have three. And I'm sure each of these two vice presidents would be able to lead this agenda item to your arrival. I'll tell you what, I can't give you an apology for that. And you take this matter of mine as my recommendation for the future so you won't do anything like that again.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u114	I'll answer that. Both vice presidents will also lead this point, I just wanted to start it. Dr. Franz Ducky, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u115	Beyond your smiles, beyond mentioning how your colleague Milan climbed, I have big ears and I listen. Kordish, please stop laughing. Mr President, you have said that you have not yet examined this 50-page document. As already referred to in the preceding article, this is the most controversial law dealt with by this reference to the National Assembly. And I'm only moving within the constitution, as I did at my mother's working body meeting. I haven't even gone to any internationally accepted bonds that this country, the Republic and society have. Therefore, I suggest that for a time, you decide who you need, we are both professors – Han, but you will not watch the game – we are both professors, we both have a pretty advanced analytical ability to read, you are a top expert in the field, but probably for 50 pages if you want to use them in an argumentative manner, then you need at least 3 hours of time. Therefore, my procedural proposal is to suspend this meeting in three hours until the President of the National Assembly is seriously familiar with those 50 parties. And let's stop making a fool of ourselves and this temple of democracy. Perhaps these 50 pages could read together the two vice-presidents or, I don't know, Vice-President Irgle, if the Slovenian Democratic Party then proposed it as Vice-President; and then we would have our butts covered, if I put it that way, in an appropriate manner, as it is now. The government's legal service does not want to argue; in fact, the minister says that whether we understand it or not, and the President of the National Assembly and the supreme expert in this area has not yet had time to analyse these 50 pages. If this is not the bottom of this parliamentary democracy, if this is not the greatest insult I have ever experienced in my life, then I do not know what it is. So please, President, please, Milan, take my procedural proposal seriously, and in three hours, stop the session and learn in detail about these 50 pages. If necessary, stop it for me for three days, until these matters are clarified, because otherwise we do not make a serious decision here, because otherwise it is a crackdown theater and nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u116	Let me explain. I explained to you earlier that I did not examine these 50 pages for the purpose of establishing the relationship between the two legal services, not for the reason that I did not know what had happened at this meeting, what had happened and what was being discussed today. I know that, so please don't take advantage of this stuff. I don't want to give final judgment, but I'm pointing in the direction this judgment is going to go. Even those who know the other complaints in this matter know that I have also responded to their requests in this regard. This will be answered accordingly. But it has nothing to do with the current procedure. I'm not giving you three hours off. Mr Jan Škoberne has the floor for procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u117	Thank you very much, Mr President. Finally, I think that even you taught when we were talking about the laity of the state and the French revolution, I understood that since then the church has been separated from the state. If I understand you now, as the other man of this country, you have interrupted the meeting of elected representatives of the people because of your meeting with the highest church dignitaries. I don't know, because as a professor, you can correct me, but I suppose this isn't happening very often since the French Revolution. I think we deserve an explanation of what was so urgent that you had to stop the meeting after the church of a separate state institution, that you met with the highest summit of the Roman Catholic Church in Slovenia. Since when is a meeting to prepare for another, under the international law of a sovereign entity, such as the Vatican City State, more important to the President of the National Assembly than the regular meeting he holds?Oh, my God! I don't think that's relevant. I apologize, Mr President, but it might not be bad to interrupt today's meeting and continue tomorrow; not just because of the poor air in the morning and the excessive temperatures in this house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u118	It's hard to answer the things you're pawning and comparing, in fact, uncomparable. I told you that in the course of the meeting, unfortunately, what many in this Chamber knew was not marked; that unfortunately was expressed in coalition coordination, not elsewhere. I told that part of the story. The second part of the story is related to the obligations I have, but this time not to the Vatican City State, but to the Holy Headquarters; the difference is significant and important. It is also partly in the context of what is happening here today, because the international community, and thus the Holy Headquarters, are interested in what and how we accept matters in this national assembly. The more I do not want to answer you at this point, the more there is nothing to do with disregarding our constitutional dictatorship on the separation of the church and the state; but it does have to do with the fact that no divorce excludes the dialogue that is urgently needed for such visits to be meaningful and not merely a painting at the Holy Headquarters. Procedurally, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u119	Thank you for your word, chairman. I promise it's my last procedural one at this point. To a large extent, I agree with my colleague from the Social Democrats and my former students, but I would not like to be locked up and doing pre-election propaganda. All I can say is, if you've had this visit before, then you've remembered that we're all Abraham's sons. For those who believe, you know, the Old Testament, the twelve books, Abraham appears, that will not harm you in today’s decision on this law. But once again, for a very simple reason, I find myself appalled that I am obviously the only or one of the few constitutional patriots in this call of the National Assembly. Whatever we're doing, I accept it, we've been waiting. As a result of me, we could wait even longer for you to hold this responsible and important session because you have not to remain two vice-presidents insulted, a little more competence for this than they do, but from what you have said, it is clear that we cannot carry out this meeting properly to the end. But I can tell you in the defense that you're at least fair, that you've told me what your absence or interruption is, because I've been in this house so long, after two thirds of the term, that I know that someone else would keep it quiet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u120	The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of the Interior Mag. Spring Györkös Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u121	President, thank you for your word, honourable Members, honourable Members! On the table we have amendments to the Foreigners Act, which is extremely demanding in its mother, because it is necessary to understand the broader context of the problem and the wide range of social consequences that may occur in the case of the passivity of the Republic of Slovenia. The law was therefore subject to a very comprehensive and very intensive coordination process in government, coalition and also in the National Security Council, which it supported. We also worked intensively with the Ministry of Justice, and the Green Light was also given to us by the Government's Law Service. In the event of a changed migration situation, the Republic of Slovenia may face a situation which may pose a threat to public order and internal security. The basic purpose of the law is to prevent such a situation so that Slovenia can also go towards effective management of mass illegal immigration in a changed situation. The fundamental point is that migration is also a security issue. The second thing I would like to stress is that the law is written as a last resort to an emergency situation where Slovenia is no longer able to implement the International Protection Act due to overload. And thirdly, the law provides the legal basis for timely action so that no emergency can occur. We have already heard several times that Slovenia can limit the right to asylum only when emergency situations arise; I say that waiting for an emergency as part of a solution to the Government or the Ministry of the Interior is not acceptable. Moreover, such passive waiting for emergencies is unacceptable and even constitutionally controversial. The responsible authorities must do everything to ensure that no emergency occurs. Slovenia is a responsible and credible member of the European Union, participates in the search for European solutions and is active in the implementation of European solidarity. The European Union is a single area of freedom, security and rights, based on the concept of the protection of external borders and also on the concept of access to international protection in the European Union as a whole. This is accessibility to the Geneva Convention procedure. The essence of this Convention is to prohibit the return of persecuted persons to a country in which their freedom and security would be threatened; this is not applicable in any way if they return to the safe Member States of the European Union. The principle of non-refoulement does not guarantee the automatic right of entry and residence in the country. The persons to whom entry may be refused come from a secure Member State of the European Union and therefore the non-refoulement under the Geneva Convention is not violated. All Member States of the European Union, as we know, are considered safe under the Amsterdam Treaty Protocol, followed by the rest of the European Union legislation, particularly the Dublin Regulation, which is also based on the presumption and also allows automatic surrender of applicants between Member States. Of course, Dublin can only be abandoned in the event of objectively identified systemic deficiencies in the asylum procedure and the reception condition. The aim of the European asylum system must be to protect those who really need protection, while preventing abuse. Economic migration cannot be resolved within the asylum system. The asylum system cannot serve as a migration channel, as it can easily break the asylum system. Therefore, there is no institution and convention that could require Slovenia to wait so long for an emergency situation or a severe threat to public order and internal security. After all, human rights are limited to the rights of others, so the country must weigh, in a state of overburden, between the rights of foreigners and the rights of its own nationals or residents of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, the text of the law takes into account the proportionality shown by the fact that Slovenia can face the burdens, but has a legal basis for action when the point of the break is reached, which will be decided by the National Assembly as the highest sovereign in that country, i.e. by the representatives of the people. If the European Union does not find a solution that is sustainable and effective, Slovenia has not only a legitimate right but also a duty to cut down on those national measures that are necessary to protect its interests. Slovenia's capabilities are objectively limited. The fact that migration is also a security issue is not an invention of the Ministry of the Interior, so is the Resolution on the National Security Strategy; security must be protected in any case. I therefore once again call on Members and Members to support today's amendments to the Foreigners Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u122	Procedurally, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u123	Mr President, I regret to repeat myself. On Tuesday, sometime after 10:00 p.m., the Minister said - for the first time, frankly, today and so on. The legislative process of this country and society is not limited to a coalition, the Government, the National Security Council, in which the president of the largest opposition party is also involved; but several other stakeholders, as is known from the nomotechnic recommendations, are advising how the legislative procedure in this society and the country should be implemented. Madam Minister, several times on mine, in particular mine, the demand has not answered what is overload and what are objective restrictions. Is this 8,000 and some other capacity available to Slovenia according to official data from the Ministry of the Interior; is this some number 5,000 mentioned by Mrs Ludmila; is this some number mentioned by Mr Hanžek? At the same time, Dr Pogorec, mentioned earlier, said that we have, I will quote, “normal situation”. In the introductory five minutes at the beginning, the Minister said, "in her mother it is extremely demanding". We have normal things, we have a normal situation, we have some extremely difficult issues ahead of us. For five days this marriage walked from Gregorčič street to this house, who made a fool out of someone in the legislative process?Oh, my God! And also President-in-Office, the Minister has not yet answered some of the things I urgently need to decide as a Member. Maybe she'd even talk me out of it. But mainly one flat-rate judgment is given, which is not based on serious data analysis. If we went to seriously analyse the data, we would see that the situation in 2000, 2001 was even worse; but then, whatever I think about LDS, it did not do what the minister and the team of her ministry are doing. Who will take responsibility for such a derogation from the legislative procedure. Please answer that, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u124	Much of what you have been talking about is already a substantive issue that we need to discuss and we are not yet at the point of discussion. Until we have done the first part, and this is first the presentation of the Committee's position on this issue, then the views of the parliamentary groups, and then the debate box, within which most of these answers belong, will be opened. That is why I do not want to be predetermined to this point; nor can I, nor am I allowed from the point of view of the one who presides over this assembly, who leads the procedure through the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I note that the proposal for a law has been treated by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as a parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Magi. Baby Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u125	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Dear Minister with a co-worker, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, a very nice greeting! The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government is at its 50th emergency meeting. 1. 2017 as a working body, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Foreigners submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government, with a proposal for an urgent procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at the 84th regular session of 13. 1. 2017 decided that the proposal for a law should be considered on an urgent basis. Amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group of 18 were tabled within the time limit of the draft law. 1. 2017 and the New Slovenia Group of Members of 20. 1. 2017. Members received an amendment to the amendment to Article 1 of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group and an amendment to the amendment to the Committee of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. In an additional explanation for the articles, the representative of the Minister of the Interior said that the fundamental reason for the amendment of the Foreign Affairs Act was that Slovenia could face a situation which could pose a threat to public order and internal security in the event of a changed migration situation. The responses of other countries in the neighbourhood to possible new waves of migration are expected to be different from those of the past, which could lead to a massive increase in requests for international protection. This can bring with it the potential of abuse of an asylum system that can lead to its breakdown. As a result, this fracture can have multiple effects, which can manifest itself as a serious threat to public order and internal security at an extreme stage. Slovenia, as the guardian of the Schengen border, has an extremely high responsibility to prevent the deterioration of security throughout the Schengen area, which means that it must take all the measures necessary to maintain control over illegal migration. We are in a difficult position because the borders are closing north of us, so Slovenia is the first country before closed doors in case there is a re-mass wave of migration. Slovenia has neither the capacity nor the conditions for dealing with mass migration flows. The final European solution that Slovenia is helping to create has not yet come to light, which means that in the event of the cancellation of migration pressure mechanisms, in particular at the level of the European Union, it has the right or duty to take all national measures to ensure that we do not face an uncontrollable situation in the extreme phase. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service summed up the substance of the conclusion of the written opinion of the ZPS. In doing so, she stressed that this is an extremely sensitive content which also affects human rights and fundamental freedoms. Such an intervention always requires a thorough constitutional and international debate, respecting the requirement for the constitutionality and legality of the proposed solutions, in particular the principle of clarity and certainty. In her presentation, the Director of the NGO Law and Information Centre stressed that Slovenia still has an extremely low share of applicants for international protection in relation to the European average; nor did the asylum system break when applications were increased. It noted that the drafting of the bill did not follow what was stated in the Resolution on Regulatory Activities. The representative of Amnesty International Slovenia considered that the draft law provided for measures which were in striking contradiction with the basic principles of human rights, namely the right to an effective asylum procedure, the prohibition of collective expulsions, the right to an effective remedy and the principle of non-refoulement. The Director of the Peace Institute has pointed out that Slovenia is a party to the Geneva Convention regardless of its domestic legislation; and it is under this Convention to accept and treat applications for asylum for all foreigners. However, the bill provides that the police will not accept requests at all unless the person is tried in one of the four explicitly listed categories, which is contrary to the Geneva Convention. In the debate, the coalition MPs welcomed the solutions to the bill because it was an important area of social life, which was under severe test in 2015. Inadequately, they may even find it dangerous that Slovenia should wait for a state of emergency, as defined and laid down in Articles 92 and 16 of the Constitution. The Committee did not adopt the amendments of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors. The amendment of the Committee was adopted below. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u126	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word shall be given by the Group of the Modern Centre Parties, in its name mag. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u127	Thank you very much again, President. The migration situation has changed significantly over the last six months. Countries north of us have introduced border controls to prevent illegal migration. Countries around us are increasingly sharpening the policy of adopting foreigners and are accordingly amending legislation accordingly. Therefore, the Republic of Slovenia must prepare for a possible recurrence of the changed migration situation. The New Aliens Act is a national measure for the management of mass migration. We are aware that the Republic of Slovenia, as a Member State of the European Union, is committed to establishing a common European asylum policy or a common European asylum system; and that this is precisely why the current system is facing major problems in managing migration. In addition, it should be borne in mind that the Slovenian police are protecting the external Schengen border, which is a particular burden. We expect and we want the European Union to come up with uniform procedures regarding the challenges posed by migration. The Republic of Slovenia has always supported and actively cooperated in the search for common solutions at European Union level, but until there are legal solutions, we as a country have a sovereign right and a duty to take all measures that enable public order, security and the smooth functioning of the country, including in the case of mass migration, disproportionate pressure on the asylum system. And to prevent the Republic of Slovenia from becoming so-called pocket. However, we must have ready measures for the new migratory wave. The proposed law provides a safeguard for these cases, as it provides for measures already to change and worsen the situation in neighbouring countries that have an external border of the European Union that could lead to a new migratory wave. With the proposed measures, we would like to prevent in advance the deterioration of the security situation in the country, the functioning of the central institutions of the country and the provision of its vital functions if Slovenia were to accept a larger number of migrants who could not be adequately cared for from the point of view of accommodation and all other supplies obtained by applicants for international protection. The proposal for a law is based on the assumption that it is not a matter of repealing human rights and establishing an emergency, but rather on restricting human rights to asylum within the limits of Articles 15, 32 and 48 of the Constitution, since the Republic of Slovenia will still accept certain vulnerable groups while at the same time guaranteeing all rights to those who already have or have been asked for international protection in the Republic of Slovenia. This is a measure that would have been introduced if public order and internal security were threatened, which could have made it difficult for the central institutions, as already mentioned, to operate. We cannot wait long enough to threaten the existence of a country, because in this case we could not guarantee human rights, including the right to asylum, not to citizens or migrants. It is, therefore, not the abolition of human rights, but the restriction of the right of asylum within the limits of the Constitution and within the limits of international legal acts. The adoption of the law alone will have no consequences. A measure which would enable and provides for Article 10b in advance to be activated only if the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Government, assesses that the changed situation in the field of migration requires its activation. The latter is set out in the amendment to the new Article 5a, which was adopted at the meeting of the parent working body. The amendment provides that Article 10b shall not enter into force or apply as from the date of the entry into force of this Act; only when the situation in the field of migration has changed. On the basis of the explanation given, the proposed law will be supported by the Group of the Modern Centre Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u128	The text is addressed to the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, on behalf of Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u129	Thank you very much. So we have the Foreigners Act on the table. According to our assessment, this law should be adopted, as adopted by other countries, in 2015 when the migrant wave was being prepared. Other countries have taken such measures in various ways long ago; Austria, for example, last year, when, with the government's decision, I stress, with the Government's decision, set the quota of 37 000 500. The German authorities have also determined certain countries from which they will no longer take these people. With us today, in 2017, we have a law on the table that you gentlemen are fighting over in the coalition. You can see that from the moon. But let's leave it at that, it's a less important matter. I have to explain the following things to the Legal and Legislative Service. And I'd like to ask the secretary general, or the coalition, to consider it. In the second line of Article 10.b, the words “police who do not meet the conditions for entry” must be thrown out of the text. This part needs to be thrown out. Otherwise, you must admit that so far, it is completely contrary to logic. Read article 10.b, second line. Read what you're writing. This is really wrong, and it's really absurd. Not to accept that. The word “police to an alien who does not meet the conditions for entry” must go out, because otherwise you say that so far it has been or how. That we've done something illegal so far. But that's what you have to do. Maybe it's a nomo technical thing to do with the amendments, I don't know how. Next, we have three suggestions on the table. A, a coalition proposal - it is limited to certain conditions for asylum seekers to be closed if Parliament so decides by a two-thirds majority. B, on the table we have the amendment of New Slovenia, which is essentially identical, only that it requires a simple majority of Parliament. C, we have a proposal on the table, you won't believe it, SDS, which leaves this decision to the government. That's our amendment. It is aimed at adopting such a measure by the government, as was the case with the Austrian, German and others. I see you are nodding to me; but I will explain to you why. If you leave the constitutional majority, it will not be possible to take this action; no matter who is in power, left or right. Why won't it be possible to accept it? Just look at the fiscal world, and you'll see what time it is. The number of people in the United Left is slightly increasing, the number of people thinking as president of the National Assembly is slightly increasing; and this law is “out”. There's no two-thirds majority, you won't get that. Do not endanger the country of Slovenia. We're going on a proposal from New Slovenia. He is much better, for he speaks of the common majority, yet I personally see traps. The government will propose the application of such an article and the general majority of the National Assembly will decide. This is likely to happen when intelligence and security services say that Croatians, Serbs or I do not know who are preparing to open their borders. There'll be 20,000 of them. We will meet in this National Assembly, first on the Committee. There we will give our word to Mr Trčko – with all due respect, this time I speak positively of you, you have nothing procedural to say – he will get a word there, there are no limits, there are no limits. And he will, say, do as Mr. Praiser has said for four hours, and he will speak for 12 hours. He has the right to speak. Don't deny it to him. He'll have that right. Let's move on. You will have them in Slovenia within 12 hours. You'll have these people here in 12 hours before the National Assembly decides. But our proposal is for the government to decide. And there's something else I'm warning you about. This case is now designed to be a preventive measure before declaring an emergency. This is a preventive measure against declaring an emergency. A preventive measure requires a two-thirds majority, and Article 92 of the Constitution states that a general majority may declare a state of war or an emergency. This means that if there are 46 Members in the Chamber, 24 may declare them a state of war or an emergency. Think about what you're doing, and adopt a law that will be operational.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u130	Procedurally, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u131	Thank you for your word. First of all, I should thank you for making us an ad, but things are kind of too serious and demanding.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u132	No, no, they always are; they were yours. You were in the beginning. He was in on it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u133	Mr Gorenak, you have also very nicely highlighted your former prominent member and I thank you for finally telling you who introduced these practices into this National Assembly to a large extent in this National Assembly. Slovenian Democratic Party. And also that Tuesday's meeting, Mr Janez Janša, was pleased to come to the National Assembly because he thought Mr Brglez would be present there. Since he was gone, Janez Janša, as an intelligent politician, found someone who knew he would not be quiet. And that was me. At the same time, your party has drawn to this Parliament a gentleman who has identified himself as a researcher and has waved with a chemical pencil. I was so mad that I went to this meeting, and it was a total panic of all the protection of the National Assembly, what with one pencil that Mr. Waves. Anyone who knows little of my aggregate status when I participate in bilaterals or multilaterals in this as an MP, who was in the basement when the arbitration was; definitely knows that someone else will be doing shit, not Duck. And also certain heavy patriots from the beginning of this country, when they first broke through the sound wall above this building, the pale ones hid under the tables. Maybe I would have done it then, but I don't want to blame them now, but please stop. You don't see into my head, Mr. Gorenak, you're a doctor of varsity, you're not a psychologist or a psychoanalyst. That's what Brglez said. I expect Mr. Gorenak to apologize to me immediately.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u134	On the basis of Rule 69 of the Rules of Procedure to a Member who wishes to talk about the use of the Rules of Procedure, that is to say, the procedural question that the President should speak as soon as he requests it, of course, after the previous one has done so. Now I feel that this is almost part of the debate or reaction to a different point of view. This reaction to the position is essentially part of the debate. It's a procedural abuse. Therefore, I very much ask that we endure in this matter to the end, that we begin to have a final substantive discussion when the debate is open. Now this has been the third time, so I think I can give you a first warning for this. But I would like to do this as little today as possible, because we need to discuss rather than deal with procedural matters; but we need to get to the point of discussion. You had the right to explain your opinion, you got involved in it, and that is a fact, colleague Trčko and me, I can also feel hurt in such a matter. This is now another part, it's about what the positions of the parliamentary groups are, whether they are intended to explain the position or to deal with the opponents. It's part of a political culture. The text shall be given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Franz Jurša, on her behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u135	Thank you. Dear colleagues and others in the hall! It is a good year from when we faced a larger refugee or migrant wave in Slovenia. Now we can say that this fear of danger was too great, since our country, especially police officers, volunteers and others, reacted with great tolerance, sustainability and calmness. He stood up on the so-called corridor and the refugees went through this corridor, most of the citizens and citizens of these refugees had not seen at all. Whether in the near future we will witness another migratory wave, no one can say with certainty. Predictions and evaluations vary, and it is up to us to prepare for this if this happens again, but to a wider extent. This is exactly what the bill we are considering – the legal basis for introducing the necessary measures in the case of mass migration. I would like to point out that this is a matter of law, which means that only if such a case occurs will the functioning of the Ministry of the Interior, the Government and, at the final stage, the National Assembly be activated following the procedure envisaged. The National Assembly will be the one to decide again on the introduction of concrete measures, with a two-thirds majority, so at least in the basic proposal it is written. But there are also amendments that propose different solutions. We in the Desus Group will think about this during the debate and we will finally decide. Such a majority, in our opinion, is a protector, some kind of defender for the protection of everyone's rights. Most of the debate was and is still intended to protect human rights. On the one hand, the human rights of our people and thus the public interest and security of our country. And on the other hand, protecting the human rights of those who wish to enter our country, whether they show their intention to stay with us or just cross our country. And that's the part where opinions get fucked. In the Desus Group, we believe that we certainly need measures for a possible broader migration wave. We also believe that in such a case the competent authorities must have all the necessary powers and instruments to act in individual cases. At the same time, we need to separate refugees fleeing to third countries for their own safety, as well as migrants leaving their home country to seek employment with a desire for a better future. We must not read them either, but we must treat them separately. Of course, it is necessary to help anyone who needs help. But in the Desus Group we wonder where the border is. To fully open our borders and leave the entry or arrival of foreigners across our country regardless of the number of people? How many refugees can our country possibly accept and take care of them properly? What about the rights of our citizens and citizens, which as a country must not be curtailed? The right to protection and fundamental human rights, of course, is also enjoyed by migrant refugees. And this is where we come to the collision of human rights between one and the other. It is up to us to consider and assess where the rights of one can be limited to the guarantee or reduction of the rights of others. And in this particular part, neither politics nor profession are uniform. Everyone can explain it in their own way. In our parliamentary group, however, we could say that this is walking on the edge, which is also indicated by the totally discriminatory opinions of our and the government's legislative and legal services. We are therefore confident that this issue will be brought before the Constitutional Court as soon as possible and that it will take a final decision. We must not forget, however, even if this is to be heard harshly, Europe has left us completely alone in this case. The European Union as a family of families in mass migration has not sat together or sat together, but has taken concrete action. The result is that each country is as well known as it is. That's why it's up to us to do what we can. If there is a massive migration wave, we owe it to refugees who are persecuted and whose lives are at risk to offer assistance. However, we are obliged to ensure consistent security for our citizens and citizens as well. Therefore, in the Desus Group, in principle, we attach ourselves to the solutions of the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u136	Mr Jan Škoberne, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u137	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Today, this extremely controversial law is placed on our agenda, not in normal circumstances, of course, but in circumstances where unfortunately we have to find that substantially changed relations between partner countries within organisations and communities, in which we have agreed on a set of rules that are the international community of the European Union, our wider European space, has connected, worked for a safer and more solidarity-based last decade. Unfortunately, we need to find that a number of rules in the changed geostrategic and global circumstances are no longer respected urgently and unconditionally, but are subject to possible and discretionary derogations every day, but not on the basis of arguments and arguments, but on the basis of greater and stronger power and arguments. Thus, today, respected colleagues and colleagues, it may be that the Republic of Slovenia is subject to the rules on public financial deficit, but not to a significantly larger and more important French Republic. Therefore, it could have happened that Germany and Austria could have taken the right to suspend the Schengen system, the Dublin rules and our borders, even though there is no danger today, to place not only the police and border controls, but even the military. The European Commission, in the absence of obvious reasons for the latter, has even extended this. And then, here and there, someone, usually from abroad, asks why we are forced to think and act. That is why, since not the European Commission, nor the Council of Europe, nor the United Nations, have done what they were asked to do with their establishment; because our neighbourhood policy does not regulate the situation in the Middle East and because the external service of the European Commission does not work. Not to mention that the European Commission is rejecting the rules it has adopted. There are no exceptions to the terrain for Croatia and, however, although this is the subject of the Treaty of Accession of Croatia, today we need to discuss how to ensure something that Slovenia has already been given and promised. Today's bill on the table has a lot of controversy. The first is whether it is even necessary that we already have a National Security Council, which can determine the risk of the Republic of Slovenia and the functioning of its institutions, propose to the Government appropriate measures, which are, of course, subsequently verified by the National Assembly. Today, if necessary, we can declare an emergency. And so the question is, why does the government need the law to address something that may or may not have been solved? It is here to understand the purpose of the government to ensure legal coverage, that such instruments would not be misused to create and provide political interests, in order not to result in the authoritarian abuse of the National Security Council or the Government as a body implementing or acting on a established basis. And thirdly, we have been assured that the law proposed is consistent with the Constitution and international law. More than obviously, we have a number of different opinions on this, as well as on how to harmonise the text before us in a way that is effective and at the same time consistent with the standards that are essential that the international community can function and that human rights are guaranteed in the long term; not only to those who are being violated today, but also to those who are living in peace and freedom. Therefore, today, in the Group of Social Democrats, we expect specific and costly clarifications from the Minister. Whether we support the law or not, we will decide when we find out what the final version of this law is. Whether there will be adequate safeguards in it to prevent possible abuses; and when we see whether in this National Assembly we will be able to decide with a two-thirds majority whether to suspend something that is internationally recognised to protect those whose lives are directly threatened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u138	The text is given by the Joint Left Group, on her behalf by Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u139	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon. We have found ourselves in a situation that should not happen in a country that is considered a democratic republic, a legal and social state. There is a law before us that is unconstitutional. We have before us a law that violates many of the principles of international law and especially the conventions that this country has also adopted. And if the inadmissibility of this proposal is so pointed out by all asylum law experts, if one of the biggest foreign experts in this area writes that it is a heinous move that we must condemn, if all the violations are enough to be rejected in these five minutes that I now have, or cannot list, even to explain them, then it is quite clear that the Aliens Act should be rejected today and the Minister should immediately offer a derogation. The adoption of an obviously unconstitutional law is based on only two things — rhetorics of fear and rhetoric of security. And because of this rhetoric, the government has placed cutting wire on the border, the military has given police powers, and the police will soon assign electrical paralysers, the possibility of using military weapons and equipment and allow the use of resources for crowd control. None of these measures provide for security, that is a fact. But it is because you — the government, the coalition, the political right — have been threatening people for two years that these same people are now ready to renounce their rights, even though this will not bring them any more security. You advocate that by adopting this law we do not yet violate human rights, we do not yet violate the Constitution. The law will therefore be supported because we will not violate human rights today, but only in time. The proposal also does not appear disputed to the coalition MPs because a two-thirds majority is required to violate human rights. If all 90 were to vote, it would still be unconstitutional. And this kind of argument comes from the mouth of lawyers, from the mouth of magistrates, from the doctors of law. Even claims come from the same mouth that all the findings that have been collected for a good deal over the past week have been eliminated by the amendments that have been adopted. It was even said that the amendments and I came closer to stopping. I'd say you took a step back because you still stop saying back. With that step back, you came a little closer. To avoid any confusion, we do not say in the United Left that migration trends do not need to be addressed, but the increase in human rights repression and suspension is not and cannot be a solution. Where is it renovated or any contingent plan? Where are the human resources reinforcements for the rapid and effective treatment of applicants? Where are the updated integration plans? In Slovenia, we do not yet have a textbook to explain for foreigners. They're gone. Instead, you are still using or supporting military conflicts, the poverty of countries in the Middle East. You're travelling abroad to military units, and you're helping net new wars. People who are victims of these wars, who you support, you close borders, you deny them help, and you deny them protection. One of the arguments is that the people of Slovenia, especially the poorest, should be considered first. If so, why did it take you a year and a half to convince you that children from poor families in school should have a free meal? Why did you give 10% to the richest 60 million euros? And why, after you have rejected the proposal to raise the minimum wage, do you today claim that the Law on Foreigners protects mainly the rights of citizens and citizens of Slovenia? It is quite clear that this is a matter of manipulation and simple lies. And refugees are not to blame for the rise in poverty in Slovenia, they are not to blame for the high unemployment rate, they are not to blame for the miserable pensions and the minimum wage, which does not guarantee even basic life, let alone a decent life. And refugees are not to blame for the ever-increasing exploitation of workers. All of this has been the responsibility of these and all past governments, which have, interestingly, introduced austerity measures that have specifically deepened the social pressures of people, using exactly the same rhetoric – a policy of intimidation. A few years ago, there was an external enemy of the troika, today they are foreigners; this difference is that we are not talking today about the wrong measures, but we are talking about anti-constitutional measures. There is also an eccentric breach of international conventions, which have been adopted precisely because of ensuring respect for human rights in any time of crisis. It is sad that you are aware of all this; but you will still press "for".
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u140	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, on her behalf, Mr Jernej Vrtovec, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u141	Dear Mr President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues, good afternoon! Why will New Slovenia support this law on foreigners? Situations in the Middle East, Turkey, North Africa. In Turkey, about 3 million people fleeing the Middle East and wishing to come to the northern European Union are looking for opportunities for a new, better life, according to various figures. If the European Union-Turkey agreement, which was concluded, may fall in the coming months or anything will happen – as you are monitoring the media themselves and you know that this agreement is in great uncertainty – then last year's scenario can be repeated. Last year's scenario, when Slovenia was able to organise itself with the so-called corridor from the southern border to the northern border. Now all of this will be impossible because, in this case, Austria and the northern states will no longer allow such behaviour. Austria has accepted a certain number of quotas and Slovenia will be limited in this respect. At the same time, Slovenia is not obliged to accept an unlimited number of migrants who enter the country illegally in relation to this fact and is obliged to ensure public order and internal security. Slovenia is obliged to protect its sovereignty and constitutional goods. We must agree in Slovenia what our capabilities are, for the first time, to ensure a humanitarian aspect; secondly, a security aspect; thirdly, an economic aspect. What are our capabilities, how many people can we ensure that human rights are guaranteed primarily to our citizens and citizens and human rights to those who come to Slovenia for a better life, or to this part of the European Union? But we can't take care of all the people who want to come here. We see the key purpose of this legislation in New Slovenia mainly in the light of the fact that there is no emergency situation or that there is no need for further discussion or to prevent an emergency. European asylum legislation is not adapted to the mass migrations we face today, which are a challenge for the next generation, not just for our generation. Therefore, the common European policy has so far not been able to prevent the spread of the migratory wave and to take measures to help refugees and migrants not to leave their homes. Ladies and gentlemen, it is much easier to smite from Brussels or Strasbourg with the finger of an individual member of the European Union, who are trying to protect their citizens and migrants in the first place with their actions. As many migrants as the country can accept and will be able to accommodate them and provide them with dignity. And unfortunately, Member States are more or less left to themselves to act. In this light, this law on foreigners is passed, at least as we understand it, according to the content of this law. However, in the event of a changed security situation, which of course can occur, we can provide all the necessary measures to protect our citizens' security and security, in order to ensure human rights, we must now urgently adopt an additional legal basis. And as soon as changed circumstances arise, it will allow action and illegal migrants can be rejected when entering the country, of course in accordance with our capabilities. And once again, the purpose of today's novelty is to prevent an emergency, because the proclamation of emergency situations would already mean that the state and functioning of its institutions are at risk, and thus the entire asylum system as a whole. The entire asylum system will fail in Slovenia if we do not agree on what our capabilities are. Finally, let me define myself before our amendment; in New Slovenia we propose that the National Assembly adopt these measures, as provided for in this law, by a simple majority. That makes perfect sense. Why? If the state of emergency can be adopted in this State Assembly with a simple majority, tell me, where is the logic that this law could be activated by a two-thirds majority?Oh, my God! This law prevents emergency situations. Therefore, it is analogous to accept our amendment; and I also ask you for your support.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u142	The text shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, on her behalf by Dr. Bojan Dobovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u143	All those who accompany this meeting are respected! The aim of all of us must be the security of the citizens; and this is most important. Unfortunately, the proposal before us is only a pear move. Among others, this is illustrated by the European Commission, which is extending its control at the Austrian-Slovenian border, which is indicative of the failure to implement the rules. The urgency of the procedure chosen and the model is not appropriate. Why? The main thing is that the changes mean that the proposal is not operational and will not be allowed to be implemented on the ground. We had legislation, Schengen regulations; however, the government did not implement them. It will be even less possible to implement these rules, as the European Commission reminds us, so we have a problem at the Austrian-Slovenian border. On the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government, I have pointed out that the security situation is changing. Threats from military threats turn into internal threats because migration plays a very important role. And threats to natural disasters, such as floods, earthquakes, what's happening in Italy, stomachs and the like. And that needs to be changed. I therefore proposed that implementing law and measures should be adopted to declare an emergency situation for internal threats and natural disasters. And these are the solutions that are being proposed. For the reasons stated in the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we will not support too long. Moreover, Members also point out that the proposal did not take into account the legislative and legal proposals and was incompatible with the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u144	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and on the amendments tabled. Since the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to Articles 1, 5 and 5a are substantively linked, we will discuss them together. I shall put to the debate Articles 1, 5 and 5a and the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors by Articles 1, 5 and 5a and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 1. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u145	Thank you, President. I have a very simple and very short question for the Minister to begin with. After the conclusion of Tuesday's meeting of the mother's working body, all the concerns our legal and legal service had remained open. Since this is the only body that coordinates or advises us about the conformity of laws we adopt in accordance with the Constitution and other acts, I would like to hear these answers today. We know what the concerns were, which are all the articles referred to by the ZPS. I look forward to what has been said many times today that it will finally be clear once that we will understand because it is important that we understand that we hear how these findings are resolved or those concerns are addressed. I also want to hear today a firm assurance that this law is in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u146	Mr. Marjan Dolinšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u147	Thank you, President. We have before us a law whose primary purpose is exclusively to protect the nature of our citizens, our integrity, our sovereignty under any changed circumstances in migratory flows that might reappear. I think it is the responsibility of all of us to all citizens and citizens to ensure security and public order. It is exclusively a preventive law that will be applied if necessary. Nobody wants to do that. Although perhaps someone or quite a few of them thinks so among us. I don't think anyone wants that. It is true that the law on foreigners justifies the need to reduce the security risks for the Slovenian population. Although what I have just said has been a clear statement in a letter to our President of the National Assembly by the Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe. In this letter, this was said as an obvious excuse. I don't know who will take care of the Slovenian population if we're not here and also in executive power, all of us who have a function in this country. Who else will take care of it?Oh, my God! Just like in 1991. Who helped us in the first days of independence? No one from Europe has turned their backs on us. For now, we are the master here on our land. The various letters coming from Europe are extremely unacceptable and inappropriate. I think we need to get serious. Interestingly, many other European members did not allow this when something happened when someone closed something. We haven't done anything yet. We have a phase of law-making in the process. It is regrettable that we should remain silent, except for the President of the Government, he has responded decisively to the letter received by the Commissioner of the Council of Europe. I think he has shown upright attitude and also that he and the government care about our citizens, what and how it will be tomorrow. Above all, for the safety of our citizens in the face of potential threats, if that were to happen. If we had followed the media a little bit within a week, we could see that it was also on the European floor when the Maltese Prime Minister took over the presidency on the 18th, when they were together, that he was serious about migration, that we were late for Europe to miss a serious plan. At a challenge that could happen, or he was quite clear — we are approaching the spring wave of refugees, migrants. He was very clear. I hope we found this in the media. It has seriously pointed out that a comprehensive approach to this area of regulation must be taken immediately. I'm afraid that's not what happened until now. Why does the Maltese president have this concern? We know that Malta is an even smaller island country than Slovenia. She's been through this before. And she's very vulnerable. You're smaller, you're more vulnerable. The bill before us follows the solutions already put into national law by some European Member States. Consider Norway, see Hungary, Austria, Denmark, and so on. Now, in our case in the European area, there is such a fear that I do not know what has happened. Because we express our concern for security in our country in the face of potentially changed situations that could happen. I think there are known experiences, we have so many memories, in 2015 and 2016, when half a million migrants crossed our territory. Clearly, however, it was soon forgotten what efforts they had made back then, but at that time, with extreme strength, with all the effort, even the wave that had gone through our territory was so powerful that it was able to overcome and succeed. But we can learn many lessons from this too. We've gained a lot of experience. I think all thanks go to the Slovenian police, including Slovenian soldiers and citizens, especially those exposed parts that met the crowds across the territory, past the houses and so on. And they put up with it. I think that the humanitarian side has also been very correct and that we have shown that we can also take care of human rights, humanitarianism and so on. I think it was perfectly clear, even though someone was trying to show it, or whether it was meant to do so. I would also like to remind you that this has apparently been forgotten. I understand that some of you who were born after 1991 or who were only a few years old at the time do not understand how security, personal security, on the other hand, is at stake; someone who comes to you in the country. Unfortunately, some of us have experienced this in 1991. I understand that some people don't know what that means, what peace means? Not that you're afraid in the morning, at night, of what happens in the evening. I think we need to think carefully, because peace is not entirely self-evident. But we know him just when we don't have him anymore. That's the problem, because you don't know what peace isn't. That's the main problem. Apparently, some of you have a problem right here. Some. I think our government, when it unanimously adopted this law, with the exception of retaining the Minister of Justice, has changed its mind after months because she did not file it overnight. It's been a few months, I'm thinking, up, down. As we know, we have all followed and now we have him here, in Parliament, in our procedure. I think we can think and think about whether we are so responsible that we will support this law and thus show our citizens that we are on the side of our people in our home Republic of Slovenia. We can see that the situation around us is not exactly pink or so that we can be completely calm and riverlike, for nothing will happen. We know what's going on, let's not go into the area of terrorism that's been stepping up from day to day, let's look at the timeline for the last two years, only if we look in the European space; let's look at the issue of migration, Greece, which we can't trust. Turkey, we know what the crowds are like in Turkey, including Turkey in terms of Europe-Turkey relations, talking, complaining, blackmailing. I have to say, I don't trust anyone here. And if we don't take care of our own safety, even preventively, it's better to prevent it than after any unpleasant situation for all of us. I would also like to mention and mention one more thing, we all forget, maybe I am too burdened with some things and think too much, but only if we read the media and if we read anything else between the lines or who has the opportunity from any other sources to get some credible information, not to forget Libya, Egypt, what can happen. Very quickly in Libya, if you know what is happening there; and also in Egypt. I wouldn't go into the details right now, but I have to mention. And most recently, I was surprised, I was just hoping that the internal border between Austria and Slovenia would not be extended. Sadly, we can also think about why they chose to do so. Why, if nothing happens. Maybe it won't, God forbid, but why were they extended until May. I have to say, I'm surprised. Apparently, they know more than we know. I don't know. That's the question I'm asking. I think the law itself is worthy of support. As far as the amendments are concerned, I think it is appropriate to propose a new Slovenia proposal to support them. I'll back him up, because the real law is beautifully written on paper, but it's not operational if it comes to the moment that it needs to be activated and used. I will support the amendment of New Slovenia as well as the law itself, simply because I feel responsible for the country, my country, citizens and citizens. Especially now, this function, this work that I am doing, tells me that no other thought can be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u148	The word has magic. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Everything that goes wrong in this marriage. And I agree with a colleague who earlier said that this law really brought us to the bottom. You're abusing the emergency procedure. Dear coalition, let me tell you that if there were no amendments to the Slovenian Democratic Party and the NSI in this national assembly, we could not discuss the law at all. This is a democratic process led by this government and this coalition. It is fortunate that these two parties tabled the amendments and that we can even talk about it today. And that's very wrong. This is going to be one big black dot in this convention of the National Assembly. You abuse the emergency procedure because if the data are held, it is not necessary to adopt it so quickly. You have excluded the public, the professional public from the debate and in the end you will legitimize the violation of human rights and the Slovenian Constitution. And it's not some radical right-wing government, it's a government and a coalition that says it's socio-liberal. This is far away, it is not even “s” from social and neither “l” from liberal. I think Mrs Le Pen would be very proud to congratulate you on what you are doing today. It's just that you showed your true face in this marriage. I'm curious, Your Honor, why is there such a lot of fuss over Austrian action? If it's so urgent, then you have to understand. Then it's something they can do. We're gonna do worse than that. Then understand. They can do this like you or Slovenia. Such a law as we have, there is no state in Europe, we have heard on the committee, none. So we're going to be the first to be radical. And of course I can't agree with that. I would really like to hear why, perhaps even the president, why we allowed abuse of procedure in the National Assembly. Why? Why didn't we just go our separate ways, talk? I don't know, you're afraid of arguments, you're afraid to hear what's wrong with this law. And instead of confronting the power of arguments, you're showing us an argument of power, which is wrong. If this is the new policy, this is the country of law that you promised us, and there was no talk about cooperation, but you are full of it. A special story in this farce is the Justice Committee. I'm not going to talk about the chauvinistic statements because I think he's going to have to be somewhere else about this space, but that the chairman of the committee will allow himself, for the first time, an MP or an MP, not to give a word because he's made that decision, that's his argument, is unacceptable. And secondly, to allow the Government of the Republic of Slovenia's legal service to regret the legislative and legal service of the National Assembly, then I think things have gone far over the edge. And the question is whether or not the executive and legislative authorities in our country are still separate. I really hope, President, that you will look at that committee, not just read it, because I think the picture will say more than words; and act as it should. And thirdly, in my opinion, the most important thing is to violate the Constitution and human rights. NGOs, constitutional lawyers, legal experts, the Ombudsman, international organisations, all warn you that this is a law that is in grave violation of human rights. Colleagues who have European Members, Members of Parliament and Members are not enough to walk around the round tables and explain what is wrong; action is needed here in the National Assembly. You want to give the public the impression that you care about man, about human rights; but here, in the National Assembly, you do everything else. However, I must say that I am most surprised by this, Mr Cerar. We all remember the beautiful words he spoke as a legal expert, as a professor, as someone who taught us all about what we were doing wrong and how he would change all of this. Ethics, morality, respect for the rule of law. I will now allow myself to read a letter signed by Mr Cerar's students, and I think it has already been signed by over 100 students, about 150. So they say: "Cerra's students are called upon to withdraw the law on foreigners. Prof. Dr. Mir Cerar's handover was attended by a number of students or students of law, social sciences or administrative sciences. And even though it has been quite a few years since we sat in the classrooms, we are well reminded of his lectures on justice, human rights, legal rules and principles, and, finally, the ethics of the legal profession. Dear Prime Minister, in the years we have spent behind your school benches, you have taught us about justice, human rights, legal rules and principles and the ethics of the legal profession. The lectures were not only intended to conduct examinations, but were a guide and tool for future professions. When you lectured us about the rule of law, you said: “The most important are the fundamental rights of the person and of the citizen contained in the constitution.” In your book The foundations of constitutional regulation, human rights and fundamental freedoms, which was our compulsory literature, you say in chapter 5.2: “Pursuant to the provisions of the first paragraph of Article 16 of the Constitution, temporary repeal or restriction of human rights is permissible only in war or state of emergency, with the Constitution narrowing the area of such restriction or repealing.” Today, you are promoting the adoption of a law that will restrict these rights only in a changed situation. In one of your interviews, you claimed that the solution to the crisis is to awaken the concept of ethics and nature that every other path is wrong. Your stage of speech is now much bigger, and no more students are sitting in your benches. The test floor, whose main issue is the adoption of a law that violates international law and the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, will be solved by Members in the National Assembly on behalf of the whole country; the final answer will not only be assessed by citizens but by the entire international community. Many of us work in this international community, there we represent Slovenia and we are simply ashamed of such legislation. We invite you to withdraw from the agenda the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Foreigners Act of 21. 1. 2017, which violates the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in which you participated.” So students or people, sometimes students of Mr. Cerar. And it's true, in this marriage, masks fell and many showed their true faces. What is most interesting is that the big argument for the adoption of the law is that it is supported by the public. Public research or polls do show this, but if you ask people if all bank criminals are to be shut down, the answer to the public is yes, immediately, a hundred percent, without exception. And for public support, you're going to change the law and put people in jail without trial?Oh, my God! We can expect that if public opinion is so important. Slovenia must take care of its people, first of all its people, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. That's a fact and we support it, I'm sure, everyone. However, by not violating human rights and our own constitution. Please reconsider whether you really want to put Slovenia at the side of countries where human rights are just for some. You're really thinking of putting our beautiful country on a list where human rights are violated. You still have time to change your mind. We still have time to leave Slovenia credible and credible. Let us make a public presentation of our opinions, face arguments and write a law that will protect our citizens in accordance with the Constitution and human rights.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u150	Mr. Marko Ferruga has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u151	Thank you for your word. Here we always begin to ask about human rights and we all have a full mouth of human rights. These human rights are ready for every occasion, every situation and every occasion. What are the facts? The first fact is that there is no common European Union solution on asylum policy. Second, economic migration cannot be resolved within the asylum system. Thirdly, members of Europe are more or less left to themselves. Fourth, the situation is changing rapidly. The fifth fact, asylum seekers are found to spend a great deal of time in the first safe countries in the European Union. In addition, the Conventions do not give any special choice. In this matter, we can discuss the concept of a safe country. Sixthly, are all the countries surrounding us European Union countries; are all our neighbours parties to the Geneva Convention and all other conventions and all human rights legislation? That's one of those questions, too. The next conclusion is that Geneva and other conventions are not adapted for the present time, the current situation when we are talking about migration. The next fact is that the European Union is hypocritical and double-faced. This can be seen right outside the door, says immediately from Belgrade, if not closer; and from Macedonia and Greece. You can see that, as some of my predecessors have already mentioned, in our field affairs. This is also seen in the extension of measures at the border between Austria and Slovenia. And the next fact is that the Council of Europe and the Commissioner of the Council of Europe tell us how and what we need to do; of course, he does not see other problems and problems. It is my personal opinion that it would be nice for Europe to stop this rigidity and with some bureaucratic mentality and some kind of seeming humanitarianism and false solidarity; and to start acting. What is very important and what is also the fact that Slovenia has limited resources and obviously must rely on itself. Now, here's a proposal for a bill. The proposed law represents a guardian to prevent a deterioration of the security situation. I agree that this measure is professional, but it is preventive. This law also gives some signal to everyone in Europe and elsewhere that if Slovenia is forced to do so, God forbid that it should happen, know and know how to act. The general justification of the law is clear – security and public order and additional pervention. But this is only a political decision. When we start weighing, we need to be pragmatic. On the one hand, we have the human rights of migrants and on the other hand we have the human rights of our citizens and the security of our country. What would it weigh? I think everyone on their own can judge. I know I'll decide for our country, first! I'm sorry to say this, but in this situation, when you have to make a decision, and because we're decision makers, I know what we're gonna decide. But it's true that these human rights are like a virus, once they're a positive virus, once they're as negative as anyone likes them. But they're a very grateful subject for these things. I'm not gonna say I don't have any second thoughts on me. The considerations in this legislation are whether the timing is right or whether the measures, legal opinions, are all together; but a decision must be made. And I have made up my mind and I think that, however, we will give a very clear signal to everyone else, how Slovenia thinks in this direction and shows some determination. At this point, when we are talking about all these matters, it is also on my part to thank the police, the Slovenian Army, civil protection and NGOs who took care of what we had last year. And to conclude, I would like to appeal to our government that it is possible to start thinking in this part about a law on emergency situations, which would then really qualify all situations – from natural disasters, migration to, God forbid, war. With that law, we would have more selectively listed all these things so that, at the end of the day, we could have that marriage than some kind of central law. As far as I am concerned, I will support this law; but there are still dilemmas, and here we must remain firmly in our way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u152	Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u153	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! In the introduction, I must say that I will never support the opposition's amendments to this bill, not the law itself; for two reasons, both documents contain. The first discusses the possibility of a situation threatening national security due to the arrival of migrants. I'm sorry, there could be abuse here. Do you imagine that in a situation where Slovenia is leading the sale process of the New Ljubljana Bank and the President of the Government, I am ordering the Minister of Home Affairs to make an assessment that Slovenia is at risk of migrant arrival?Oh, my God! The government accepts this assessment, requires a call from the National Assembly. At a time when the National Assembly is discussing this, and even if it finds that this assessment is wrong, an international scandal has already arisen and many other matters that threaten the country are hidden. This is one reason why this instrument can be misused. There can be a situation, that is to say, a conclusion about something. Another reason that is even more serious is why I cannot support this law and amendments is because the law and the amendments allow the conditions under which national security is threatened to arise. I will never vote in favour of a law that allows situations to arise that endanger national security. This law allows that. When this situation arises, it means that in Slovenia the situation has arisen that Slovenia is a pocket in the field of migrants. When you become a pocket, you close the borders. Do you imagine a situation where a crowd of migrants in Slovenia, a closed border, or an armed police officer or a member of the Slovenian Army are in front of migrants, triggering a rapal against this crowd?Oh, my God! At that moment, this crowd felt threatened, literally by a policeman or a soldier. And this situation allows this law, so I can't support it. I have already proposed on the committee that, if we do not have this law — and we do not really need it — we have a decree on the National Security Council, which has the power to determine after this decision and to assess that the conditions under which national security is at risk have arisen. And this National Security Council advises the Government on what measures it must take to protect national security. And this situation only occurs when one or more of the members of the European Union's neighbouring members, or more of them closes the border for migrants. That's when Slovenia becomes a pocket. And when the National Security Council finds out that Austria, for example, has closed the border, this is determined by the National Security Council, advises the government on the measures to close the border and the procedure is closed. We do not need any laws, we do not violate any international conventions, because the situation has arisen because the neighbouring country has taken such a measure; we are obliged to protect our people and property. This is a situation that we can manage with the rules that we now have at our disposal. I therefore strongly advise against the adoption of this law because it threatens national security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u154	I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. Okay. I'm asking you to sign up. The word is Matjaž Hanžek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u155	Thank you very much. I will not repeat that the law is unconstitutional, that it violates and so on; for all of us are already chirping, chirping, talking. Those who won't listen to us don't hear us. I'm going to repeat something that I've already done a year, a year and a half ago -- scaring people, protecting them from some people. Peace is the greatest value. Somebody remembers Libya, what's going on, I'm gonna ask you about it. Has Libya been bombed by refugees or by the European State? Has Iraq been bombed by refugees or by European countries, the United States? Where were you, my dear colleagues, when Slovenia entered the free coalition and supported the attacks and bombings of millions of people, the deaths of hundreds of thousands of people, millions exiled, undermine all countries. What are you? You backed up, big man, you stayed quiet. I was the only one who demonstrated to Parliament against this and then announced – my dears, watch what you're doing, what you're supporting, in 10 years' time you're going to get millions of people to destroy their countries. Those who constantly refer to ethics, to God, to religion, and so on, or are not ashamed to kill people first, to undermine countries, to bomb hospitals, everything else; when the poor come to ask for help, you close. That's one. I'm not gonna be a part of this anymore. That's all you can think about, because I'm mad at it. I admit it again, I've been pissed off for 20 years since this happened. The hypocrisy of infinity. Then you say, "I don't know who said something like that, "We're using hypocritical human rights." Excuse me. Think about what human rights are, how to defend them, how to weigh them, and then open your mouth, please. I'll start screaming every time you talk, if you never let me finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u156	Hey!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u157	That's the way to debate the right. When something's wrong, when a person says something, because I don't criticize you, at least you, because it's in your, like, work circle. I understand and I tell you, but others who think of themselves as lefties or liberals, I criticize them more than you do. I admit that this is your way of life that I'm allowing you. How many people can Slovenia accept? We keep talking about some fears of some crazy crowds. If a million of them arrive, no marriage will help us, because a million people who have come through the minefields, across the sea, where I don't know how many have died, they'll give a damn that they'll crush our entire army, and the police will have everything else. You don't tell me how much it is, whether it's 20 grand, 30 grand, how much they can get across the border. Some criteria when it will be. Slovenia hosted 50,000 people during the Balkan crisis. Did something happen? Nothing happened. Secondly, we could say we're comparing. We keep comparing other countries to close borders. Austria. Austria has 100,000 asylum seekers. You know how much the same thing is if Slovenia had them to act like that – 25 thousand. When we have 25,000 asylum seekers in Slovenia, then we can act like Austrians. As long as we have about 200, 500, I don't know how many, because it doesn't matter, it's 25 grand away, and then please stop comparing and referring to foreign countries. [[advertising from the hall]] You know what, I think there's absolutely nothing in this national council to say to anyone, because some Members don't allow themselves to say anything, they don't allow anyone to say anything, anything. I'll stop slowly, but of course I won't stop all the time because it's not worth it. Bye.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u158	Thank you very much. I'd really like you on the right there to calm down a little, because everyone has the right to say what they think. Mrs. Marinka Levicar has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u159	Thank you, Vice President, for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! We pass the Aliens Act by emergency procedure. I see no legitimate reason for hurrying, especially because this law is being adopted in stock. It is supposed to be activated when the situation in the area of migration is changed, when and when an uncontrollable number of migrants will appear at our borders for our country. What is that number, we don't know. The two in such a hurry to adopt this law further deepens the following. Following a communication from the European Commission for 2017, we have made significant progress in the Union, including in the area of the European Agenda for Security, the European Agenda on Migration. It is noted that we have regained control over irregular migration flows. There are European borders and coast guards that strengthen the control of the external borders of the European Union. But we don't believe it now, I wonder. In the area of justice and fundamental rights, the European Commission emphasises that security at and within our borders is a key and common concern, I stress, a common concern. Since the threat of terrorism is as strong in the European Union as it has not yet been, measures will be taken in the European Agenda for Security in the Union and to strengthen control at the European external borders. These will include the European Travel Information System, which ensures automated verification of third-country nationals who do not need a visa to travel to the Schengen area. It is also currently working on improving the Schengen Information System. Existing and new systems to prevent, detect and investigate border crossings will also be better connected. In the first half of this year, Malta holds the presidency of the Council of the European Union. Migration management is also included among the priorities of the Maltese Presidency. At the COSAC meeting, Slovenia stresses that it will closely monitor the implementation at European Union level of measures taken to combat and prevent illegal migration and that it will be proactive in seeking consensus on the scope of urgent changes in asylum policy. Now, in my opinion, we are overly sharpened and are not looking at the warnings of the European institutions. I also stressed all this because of the growing mistrust of citizens in the European Union and its institutions. If it goes that way, we're not good at it. It is precisely in the current situation that we should strive even more to strengthen it and strengthen it in all areas; and that each country works as it believes it is best for it to do so and raise awareness of the declarations and commitments adopted. This also applies to the topics that we are addressing today – migration and asylum policy, human rights and children's rights. We are reminded of this by all the human rights organizations involved in the protection of human rights and in particular the protection of children. About the need to protect our children, we are united in Slovenia. But when it comes to children whose parents are different colors, different religions; we cancel. The Convention on the Rights of the Child, which binds us, points out that the best interest for children must weigh any decision that may affect a child. In cases where a child comes to our border with his parents, the novel does not provide assurance that the child’s greatest benefit will be taken into account, Unicef warns us to offer a child asylum and that the parents refuse. It does not seem acceptable to me that the Ombudsman, who responded to the law with his comments, has failed to familiarise himself with the amendments or the current version of the amendments so that the Ombudsman can assess whether his comments have been taken into account. Many comments from distinguished legal professionals, including those that point to a violation of the Constitution, are overlooked. I am also very sad that the comments of our Legal and Legislative Service have not even been taken into account. I don't know why we need her at all if we can beat her opinion so easily. But this is further confirmed by the fact that it is a political law. Unfortunately, I don't know what the reasons are for this. What I have heard as a justification for the adoption of this law does not convince me that we do not violate our legislation, European Union law, convention and guidance. I'd have a guilty conscience if I supported such a law, so I'm not going to do it. And the amendments. Even all the amendments proposed, we now have an amendment to Article 1, and I will not support them. I would also like to respond to what I have heard in previous discussions, as if refugees were endangering our security. Peace is the greatest value. Of course, we all agree, but let's look in Greece at the number of refugees we have. Many of you were probably already in Greece, and I was a tourist myself, but I did not see that Greece and the citizens there were at risk. Refugees living in inhuman conditions and assisted by humanitarian organisations are at risk. Social people are still valid, at least humanitarian organisations are helping, but more should be done, including by transferring these refugees to other European countries. And it doesn't run like it's supposed to. We do not have the criteria for when that number of refugees is so that we will not be able to accept them into our country, when the pocket will be created and so on. As I said, my opinion is that I will not support this marriage because of my conscience.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Mr. Roberto Battelli has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Mr. Weber was anticipating what I was going to say myself at one point. And it is that, notwithstanding this law, article 92 of the Constitution continues to apply, with the relevant procedures for the implementation of Article 92. This law has this property to regulate certain issues that arise when a situation arises where Slovenia could be the subject of a major wave of migrants, refugees or crowds of people. It also protects citizens and the country from the possible consequences of such an emergency. What can hold a grudge against the law is that it's preventive. However, it is also true that Article 92 of the Constitution is supposed to be triggered when there is actually a fundamental threat to the State at work. In this case, however, this law would be triggered if it were assessed that such a threat could reasonably occur. I will support the law, however, and I will also support the amendment of New Slovenia, because I also think it is more consistent with the purpose of defending the country from such a threat, because a two-thirds majority would be difficult to achieve. And then what the National Security Council would propose would be rejected and the question whether they could then implement Article 92 of the Constitution. And that would not be good because it would be the non-trust of all democratically elected representatives who are involved in declaring the state of emergency in the country. And this would contribute to jeopardising the security of the state rather than increasing the possibility of the state being defended.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u162	Thank you very much. The word is Micah Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u163	Thank you for your word, chairman. The Foreigners Act violates our constitution, violates international conventions, violates fundamental human rights requirements. And the last is what hurts me the most. Not that there are broken letters on some paper, even if this paper is the Slovenian constitution; but that people who have come from a few thousand kilometers away leave in the cold and close the country a little bit before them and do not come to their aid. It is particularly rejected that such an arrangement is adopted with an argument that refugees should endanger our security and even the human rights of our people. This is a strongly rejected and depressive argument, if we have to protect the human rights of citizens and citizens of Slovenia, or these rights will be taken away by refugees. That's outrageous. Who daily violates human rights for citizens and citizens of Slovenia? Fugitives? People from the Middle East running from, by the way, our bombs and our raiding their countries? No! No! Slovenian political authority. Who were 300 thousand of our people below the risk of poverty, or were they refugees? No, it was the Slovenian authorities. Who set up our banks? Again, were they refugees? No, it was a Slovenian policy in relation to the tops of the economy. Who gave Slovenian citizens and citizens the belt, defiled their health care, deprived their education, cut down their social security? Again they were not refugees, it was the Slovenian authorities. And here we listen during the whole procedure of adopting the Law on Foreigners by the ruling and right opposition, how to show the teeth to Brussels, how we must have the spine to resist the pressures from Brussels. But in what context is this happening? Suddenly, Slovenian politics would point to Brussels' teeth so that it could unhinderedly violate the human rights of others who are weaker, in this case refugees. When there is a real problem, the protection of our interests, the interests of working people in the Republic of Slovenia, and the entire political elite here from the Social Democrats to the New Slovenia at the end of the hall and all the parties in between act as the first subcontractor of Washington, Berlin and Brussels. For us foreign interests of Western countries send the Slovenian army abroad, provoke armed conflict at the border of Russia, privatise our companies, tighten our people's belt. It's the worst of two worlds we can get. And I will never support that. Sorry, this is a very double-faced game, an ugly game of hustling, an ugly game of sowing hatred, pointing fingers at an external enemy, which of course it is not, just to hide Slovenian politics and the Slovenian authorities from their own pigs to Slovenian citizens and citizens. Exactly this is all rhetoric accompanying the adoption of the Aliens Act. Do you really think this is about security? Do you really think this is about preserving the human rights of Slovenian citizens and citizens?Oh, my God! A little bit of morgen. Fear is the preferred tool of the right policy to encourage people to support themselves and to see, while the insidious people are fearfully staring at some poor people who are fleeing from a few thousand kilometres of desolate countries, destroying their social state, taking away their rights to take advantage of, in general, the welfare and well-being of Slovenian citizens and citizens. The Aliens Act violates human rights, the Aliens Act scares and is a crime. And I will be delighted to press the “against” button, and I will also hope that if this crime is not able to be rejected by this national assembly from the most debilitating daily political motives for someone else to do so, the Constitutional Court will not do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u164	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dušan Verbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u165	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Minister with a team, respectable colleagues and colleagues! I must admit that I almost don't know where to start, because I have a lot of things, especially in the direction of disappointment at the debate held so far by a number of Members. Let me begin with my personal position. As honourable Member Janko Weber has said very strongly that he fully opposes this bill and also the amendment, I have the same or even more diametric position, which means that I strongly support this law. The amendment of the New Slovenia Group, which is bound to the quota, has also been tabled. Now, however, I will allow myself to begin when my esteemed colleague Kordish touched the words of a migrant in his debate. I think it's right that we clear up things that we haven't touched yet. Are we talking about migrants or are we talking about refugees? I'm talking about the intent of the law itself. From the Dictionary of the Slovenian Language I will read the definition, I must read it so that you do not misunderstand me further. I'm talking about a fugitive: a fugitive is the person who runs from danger or unpleasantness associated with his existence. As far as this is concerned, I think that none of the Members present here and those who are absent has any critical words to say to the event that took place a good year ago, how Slovenia provided and carried out truly humanitarian procedures and to the best of its ability to ensure that they were properly served at a time when they were in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. However, those who are so determined against this law are not aware of the fact that at that time, borders were open on all sides — as far inside as they were — for such routes. I will touch the words "migrants" in the dictionary of the Slovenian language. Migrants are those who change their permanent or temporary residence, especially for economic reasons. In addition, most migrants do not want to move to a place where they are employed. And as far as it's concerned that you don't get me wrong, especially those who are determined against this law would still touch something with a trifle. How many unemployed people do we have in the Republic of Slovenia? I do not insult the social status and the sorrows that these people have experienced throughout Europe, which are displaced. Only when I touch the word migrants will I certainly give priority to a Slovenian citizen and a citizen who is unemployed. However you understand me, as a Member, I allow myself to make my comments. What really surprises me in this debate is almost no longer the category of debaters, which you have made very clear the following words: that this law is inadmissibility, the often mentioned violation is unconstitutional, violation of human rights, the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the International Convention and the Treaty. I would like to say the following: these days I went to the library of the National Assembly and I was really interested, not only in these procedures which are in the National Assembly, but also in the writing of recognised Slovenian, international lawyers. I simply noticed something — a violation of some principled matters. I am really interested in the abundance of such matters, which are specific provisions that are being violated. And here I have to admit that I'm really sad. Those who invoke, among other things, the Legislative and Legal Service refers to this as a violation of the Geneva Convention. If anyone has looked at it, the reality may be slightly different. I speak from a material that is available to me in this National Assembly; and I believe that the Library of the National Assembly is richly based on various professional and any other literature. The Geneva Convention speaks of protecting victims of war. That's what they say. We're on the run. The one who took a closer look at the marriage allows for the possibility. I believe that if something similar happens to refugees, simply the state of Slovenia will not close its eyes. Let me get into the Geneva Convention, and what's unusual is the Geneva Convention is from the ancient 1950s. And for me, there is something crucial about this situation today in relation to these so-called international movements, especially migrants, except in certain basic provisions, I do not think that this is a proper reference. I allow for an option in the basic general provisions. So much for the Geneva Convention. As far as the European Convention, which has also been mentioned many times in public funds records, allows me to have a completely different view. But the Geneva Convention with the date of 2010 was certainly not yet such a situation; it was, but not so much to that extent, as regards this part of Europe, to which the Republic of Slovenia is also tanning. And yet when I went to the abundance of these articles to see what was being violated by this law, so absorbing, so hot that it was constantly said — unconstitutional, illegal. Article 5 of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms states: "legally depriving a person of liberty in order to prevent him from entering the country". We're talking about a preventive marriage. We're not talking about an accomplished fact. And in the multitude of articles, one more would be touched, namely Protocol No. 7 which is an integral part of this Convention, to which we all refer, you refer. Article 1 contains an interesting procedural guarantee in the event of the expulsion of foreigners: “Tuesses legally resident in the territory of any State...” In this case, we wouldn't talk about this definition, because when someone's in there, after what they call asylum or any other procedure, you probably have to get some status first. As far as references to conventions are concerned, I believe that in this case you are misleading those who are so hard to defend in some way. As for the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, many in this National Assembly have made it clear to me that once I take it, I defend it, and secondly I do not. But all those who say this, I also allow myself to tell you something, an opinion is some kind of professional thinking, which is to me as a Member to help. I have a perfectly legitimate right to decide whether or not to accept it. However, I can say out loud that I greatly appreciate the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. In this opinion, too, many times, as I mentioned earlier, is the word refugee. I think the intent of this marriage is in the masseuse of migrants, because those who are in some, if I say so, Balkan path, I don't know, I don't have that much data, and there's probably a certain number of refugees in that crowd. But for most people, from media knowledge, it's about migrants. I would like to mention, on several occasions, when a person has read this opinion, and even when he has been, in some part, quite a heated debate on the parental committee, I personally do not view this opinion as very harsh. And I'll tell you why. Partly because I allow myself such opinions to be judged also by my knowledge, knowledge and perhaps by another viewpoint. Why am I saying this? I would also like to remind this National Assembly of some facts. Legislative and legal opinions in any case give views and Members agree or disagree, but in practice or in recent years, or perhaps a little more has happened that the Constitutional Court has decided differently than the Legislative and Legal Service has decided. No obvious, but that's the reality. And now we're back and I'm touching these different legal opinions and opinions. I've written some legal opinions in the past. The person ordering it, or the person to whom it is intended, is on it or is the basis of its debate, position and decision as a whole or not. But I was going to say that whoever gives one or another opinion never answers. We Members are responsible to the electorate. That's a fact. Such opinions are weighty, but I would not appeal to them terribly. As far as the last case is concerned, so it doesn't turn out like that, you would say, I'm saying something in general. I would only touch on the fact that a few months ago he was on the home financial committee and also in this National Assembly a very interesting case, namely the authentic interpretation of the Law on intangibleised securities. I must admit that I was surprised, and in this case, I am taking advantage of the opportunity of all those who so solemnly swear on the basis of the findings of the legislative and legal opinion that this is a violation of the Constitution and of the declaration. How could you vote against the law in force in this National Assembly, even though the Legislative and Legal Service, the Government, the Association of Banks and the Bank of Slovenia, as an expert, stated very clearly that there was no violation; but the legitimate decision of the National Assembly was different. I'm only setting this example because all those who so swear to the sanctity of it are not always true. As far as the Constitutional Court is concerned, that someone will not reveal to me that I do not respect or criticize, I would like to give another example of the work of the National Assembly and Members, how active it has been in the past in implementing the decisions of the Constitutional Court. I would like to remind you of the disabled area when the Law on Elections to the National Assembly was rejected before this procedure. The fact is that the Constitutional Court, long ago in 2006, decided how the National Assembly should correct the treatment of persons with disabilities in the electoral process and access to voters. Then there was another 2012 decision, and nothing happened. However, I am still at the decision of the Constitutional Court as the highest instance, and I am extremely pleased that the Constitutional Court does not always decide as it is expected of it. I ask you to understand me correctly, even among the Constitutional Judges, we have different decisions in certain cases and therefore separate opinions. And that is why I ask in the case of this law, when so many words “infringement of the Constitution” are you Members so highly qualified experts that you have already predicted that it is a violation. And if I merely refer to my last thought to article 160 of the Constitution, the powers of the Constitutional Court: the Constitutional Court decides to comply with the laws with the Constitution. Do we Members have the right to speak with such certainty that something is already contrary to the Constitution? It's political rhetoric, great. Second indent, the Constitutional Court shall decide on the conformity of laws and regulations with ratified international treaties and with the general principles of international law. I'm touching conventions here again. In all such opinions and opinions, whether we can still speak today or already say that this has happened. I must admit that I would be happy to follow if this proposal of law were to be confirmed in order for the Constitutional Court to judge; for a simple reason, because I believe that this is indeed one of the first judicatures and would also be for every government or whatever, even on some international scale, an example of how to decide in such cases. But the Constitutional Court wrote down a similar decision years ago and a case in which the state may decide or decide to adopt a law prohibiting the entry of foreigners. I am talking about whether these particular matters apply or whether we do not want to take them into account in political rhetoric. If I conclude, I absolutely support the Government's proposal, and I am also firmly in the position that the initial proposal of the law, as well as the procedures that have been taken on this matter by the Home Committee, is confirmed, as I said in the introduction, by the proposal of the New Slovenia Group. I am pleased that their explanation is once again exposed, which should also truly reach all Members in this case alive. For if you literally need a simple majority, 46 votes for an emergency situation; for a law that is preventable and is even a question if it comes to its realization, when the abundance of some guards has to be pre-ordered, we do not need it. I have a heart-to-heart belief that it happened on the side of the marriagemaker, let's say, a little awkward; but it just makes sense. A few more words, some debaters, and most likely the following will also speak, a state of emergency. Let us be clear here, an emergency is when the existence of a country is truly threatened. But because of the crowd, it can be a very large crowd, most likely the country is not threatened by this. And that's why it makes sense to make a preventive marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Mr. Miha Kordish asked for an explanation of the misunderstanding. It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u167	That's right. A colleague from the Modern Centre Party has challenged me, somewhat cynically, whether we are talking about refugees or are we talking about migrants. More than anything else, we talk about people in distress who need our help. Many of these people lost their lives in the process. They were driven by the bombs of Western countries, our allies, including our consent and cooperation; or they were driven on the road by the exhaustion of their homelands by Western multinationals and made possible by the policies of Western governments. These people can flee from the war - torn destruction of their homelands, and they can flee from the economic destruction of their homelands; and above all, they flee from destruction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u169	Well, if you'd come to me for some exam, you wouldn't have done it. Let's go in line, I'll just take these concepts, which have now been completely manipulated. There are no refugees in the Republic of Slovenia and they cannot come to Slovenia at all. We could come theoretically by plane to Brnik, that's the theory, we could also come by ship to the port of Koper, that's all it is. All people on the road are migrants; more specifically, illegal migrants. In 1994, Slovenia adopted 70,000 people, as you know. I explained last time that they were children, older men and women; no one else. However, the younger men stayed at home and created Bosnia and Herzegovina in a different way or way. If in 1991, when there was a war here, our people were running to Austria, where tents and camps were waiting for us, then this country wouldn't be, that is. This wave, which came last year and before last, represents 75% of young men; peaks, amen, certainly, for which we will give a thousand 963 euros a month. A thousand and 963 euros a month for each individual! For people between the ages of 18 and 50 who could go to chess, work or have a rifle in their hands and create their own country. This is the Court of Auditors' report. People need to see it. People need to know that it exists. Take a look at the Court of Auditors’ audit report, page 40, line 2. And we'll see, a thousand 963 euros per asylum-seekers. Moving on, saddening me, some normal situation in Parliament or in the country would be: coalition – opposition. The coalition has its own government, the opposition points out mistakes and so on, this is the normal situation in the country. But we no longer have a normal state in the country, because it is not a normal state in the coalition. In a row, virtually all European Union countries have already taken such or different measures to limit the arrival of migrants. This is the case with the Scandinavian countries that have already done so in the middle of last year and in such a way or other way close the border with the south, i.e. Germany. Austria adopted the decision of the government, which said – 38 thousand 500; and the end. And you're parliamentary on the constitutional majority. In what way is Austria more democratic than we are?Oh, my God! The Germans specifically said that people from certain countries would no longer be accepted, especially from those where there was no war. Great Britain closed the tunnel. Today, we are talking about maybe adopting this law, which should have come to the National Assembly in 2015, if you already had such a purpose in the coalition. But the situation in the coalition is what it is, so you've been obstructing the interior minister for five months to bring such a law over the government at all. What's more, Klemenčič was in charge, with a gun in his hand against the law. But when this marriage comes to the National Assembly, we hear within the coalition that I will not say stupidity, according to my household, they call stupidity. First of all, I don't know what kind of philanthropics around the president of the National Assembly, who, by the way, I see is inviting Fire to lunch. Maybe he'll invite me to lunch and give me a lecture on these things because I'm obviously too undereducated in these matters. Now I listen to Mr. Weber – “Never, never, never...” Mrs Levičar has already blinked, she's gone, she's talking about conventions and I don't know what. But in order not to flatten, the following must be said in order; there is a government proposal or government proposal on the table that the coalition no longer supports. That's what we saw. That is what Mr Weber has predicted, as Mrs Levicar, the United Left, has predicted anyway. At the modern center party, they don't know what they're gonna do with their own marriage. And his own law says we'll close the borders under certain conditions if that's what the constitutional majority is for. The constitutional majority, ladies and gentlemen, you will never get it. Not us, not you, no matter who the government is. It's impossible to get. And you have a marriage on the table. On the table is the offer of New Slovenia, which is essentially the same as yours, but requires a simple majority. Mr Verbič, not 46, but if you look closely, there is a slightly different, more reasonable proposal. But you have on the table, operationally speaking, far the most reasonable proposal. That's our proposal. This proposal, however, says that the government decides to do so. Who decided in Austria? The government! Who decided in Germany? The government! Who decided in Scandinavia? The government! Who closed the tunnel under the Cove? The government! And we're doing exercise and pretending to be scientists as the grass grows. It's been growing for thousands of years. Now there's something else about all these human beings. Is Mrs. Lefty okay with her? [[…]] I hope everything's okay, there's nothing, but you know what kind of prick she talked to about human rights. [[…]] You should be congratulating her on a well-read text anyway. That's right, yeah. But now we're going to take a practical look at this story. Mr. Weber made his lectures as if he were working police schools. I used to teach there, and now I'm learning, and I know something about it. Let us therefore look at the practical story of the operational capabilities of this law, variants A, B and C, namely yours, New Slovenia and ours. Mr. Weber spoke about how Austria would close its borders. That's irrelevant, pure stupidity. Instead of talking about what's gonna happen when the Croats take the trains to the border. That's the problem. Not that Austria's closing borders. The problem is what we're going to do when the Croats take the trains to the border, when they show up like they do on the night shots – go across here. You remember those shots. This will be a problem, not Austria, leave Austria alone. And now let's see what would happen under this law; A, B and C variants. The intelligence services, the criminal police with the exchange of information, the police with the exchange of information will somehow communicate, come, send messages to the minister, to the president of the government and predict what might happen. And now I will theoretically say that Turkey is planning, say, to open borders or that Greeks, Croats, Serbs and so on bring these people to our border, any of it. But let's take that bad choice, the Turks open the borders. Ladies and gentlemen, if the border with Austria is closed and if the countries south of us act as they are, we have 10,000 people a day in the Age. 13 thousand of them, as far as I know. And all the other border crossings are the same. The Minister will be armed in time with such information. The Prime Minister will be armed with this information. Before rejecting this coffee mill in the interior ministry, and before it comes through the National Security and Government Council to Parliament, there will be a committee meeting to consider this at a night meeting, and we will have speakers who will speak legitimately all night, and you must not take their word, and then we will come to a meeting of the National Assembly, where we will decide with a two-thirds majority on your proposal. You will not get a two-thirds majority, and those of the Ages will already be in Ljubljana. And those of the Ages will already be in Ljubljana. Well, fine, Mr. Weber's here. Option B is essentially the same, you just have to have a simple majority, what Nova Slovenija is proposing. Much better. Much better. However, according to our proposal, the situation is clear, the interior minister informs the President of the Government, he convenes the National Security Council, and in two hours the government meeting is over, the decision is on the table. They can't make it through Kolpo or Dobova across the train station. And for two hours, the Slovenian police are capable of keeping them there. But our proposal is operational, and it's far from the best. Therefore, I also urge you to be reasonable, I must congratulate some SMC individuals who are now performing and who have been leading the battle for several months now. A battle of reason. Take another step and support the operational best solution, this is for the government to decide on. So much for this situation. Now there is something else about all the human rights that Mr Weber and Mrs Levicar spoke about, and all of them from the United Left anyway. Ladies and gentlemen, where can the country of Slovenia violate human rights? Austria, Croatia, Serbia? No! No! The State of Slovenia may violate human rights in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. Is that right? And if we close the border, we do not violate human rights because there is no violation in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. But if we let these people in, as some want, and create the same conditions as in Greece, Serbia, Bulgaria and so on, that will mean that people need to know, full of Ljubljana, full of Maribor and other cities. All the parks, from Tivoli on, from the tents, I don't know what. That'll mean it. However, we are not able to handle this, not security, but even less social, in view of the fact that everyone will have his own bed and that he will be able to go to the bathroom to get breakfast, lunch and dinner; or at least lunch. We can't do that. And that means the worst violation of human rights, Mr Weber. This is a violation of human rights. We're going to those letters that came from the Council of Europe. Two of them came in, if I know anything, at least that's what the media said. The first letter came at a time when the law was not even in the National Assembly. How could the Secretary of the Council of Europe have known what a terrible law is being enforced by an office or what a terrible law an interior minister is carrying in her bag?Oh, my God! How could he have known that?Oh, my God! So someone sent this up there, but there were no messages; the letter was written; but he signed it and came back to Slovenia. Well, then there was the Commissioner, if I'm not mistaken. Why didn't the secretary call when the English closed the tunnel? Why didn't he answer? Why did he answer when Austria said 37 thousand 500? And why he's already yelling at us, and he thinks we're eggs and schmucks or something. Do you know what the difference is? As explained by Boštjan M. Zupančič, who taught many of you, you have probably failed his exam many times. Judge of the European Court of Human Rights. What did he say? The Council of Europe does not even hope to send a letter to London because it would be whistled and ridiculed there. But he hoped to send him to Vienna, but only in Vienna was the third category, that we were clear, that is, the Foreign Minister, first announced and snorted them back so that it was quite a joy. He said: We care for the security of the Republic of Austria and we are responsible for security in the Republic of Austria; and not you in Strasbourg and Brussels. That's what he said. We won't take you into account. It was only then that the Prime Minister and the State thundered, so I said a third category. How are things with us? With us, when the letter comes to Ljubljana, everyone could turn off the microphone in their pants. Excuse me. Yeah, that's right. No, not all of them, not all of them. Although the President of the State is silent, he is also the last person to come forward. But the first person to answer is the Prime Minister of the Government. Hit the table, tap the microphone and the camera and say, "Shut up! I am responsible for the situation in Slovenia. What did our Prime Minister do? “Ebedebed, we will examine this matter, and in the parliamentary process we will prepare a little more so that we do not violate human rights.” Well, you see what he's done. Nothing. Nothing. It's no wonder he has that mark on Cme, as people say. [[…]] Yeah, that's right. She's your secretary, but I still have to tell you the truth. A woman came by and wrote a sharp letter and sent it to that uncle up there and rejected his demands. We can now expect the Prime Minister to replace you. Probably. How's that gonna work? Now I don't know. I have no idea. But such a reaction is the only logical and only normal, ladies and gentlemen. There can be no other reaction. We must stand on our feet and nothing else can be on this matter. And there's something else that needs to be said about this marriage. Read article 92 of the Constitution. See Article 92 of the Constitution. He's talking about state of emergency and war. The state of emergency and war are announced by this Parliament by a simple majority. This means that 46 Members come to the meeting, 24 votes in favour; and we are there. And there we are. The emergency situation may also mean the suspension of Parliament's functioning and the transfer of functions to the President of the Republic. Emergency situations can mean a lot of other things, I don't know, closing up doesn't know what's going on in this country. Now we will accept this by 24 votes; but the measure that was 14 days earlier is this law that we will close the borders so that emergency situations do not occur, and we will adopt this by a two-thirds majority. But the donkeys have to laugh. We'll do that with a two-thirds majority. So let's think about it. We did something clever for my notions yesterday. Some marriage fell, the mayor's, and we voted last night. Make this law so that it will be operational so that it can be normal for the Presidents of the Government to be able to sit on Gregorčič 20, where the Presidents of the Government – one or the other, however, I would like this to sit there as little as possible because of the damage he is doing – can operationally protect this nation, these people; and nothing else. It's not the other thing. But to all those who talk about human rights violations and bombs, in Greece, I don't think there's a bomb going down, I haven't heard anything like that on the reports in Turkey either, in principle not, but here where it's working, and that's true; but bombs don't fall. In Bulgaria, not Macedonia, not Serbia, not Croatia. All the others, all those who are potential refugees who flee from war, go to the first safe country and have no right to choose where they go. I'd go there, clearly, where there's more pay or more social. They don't have those rights. And for God's sake, let's make this law useful. Because the same composition of the National Assembly has already adopted a disabled law that is nothing. This is the law on the use of the army at the border. At the government meeting, there were three police officers who had excellent authority over police powers, at least at that time. And all three of them have made it clear, we need to give the military authority. Which one? Legitimate, arrest, bring to the police, maybe something else; over. And because they couldn't agree at the government's meeting, because the minister knows that because he was back in the Klemenčič campaign, we accepted that the army was directing the crowds. This is a solution that is not a solution. What is this — the direction of the crowd? It's nothing. That reminds me of one dispatch of my 1992 police chiefs. At the time, it happened that this pressure had already come from the people of Bosnia, it was already very great and from Ljubljana I got to the table, then I was the director of the Police Administration in Cyprus. On the table I received a dispatch in which he wrote about: We forbid you to send people from Bosnia and Herzegovina to the Republic of Slovenia, who you think are refugees and who do not travel anywhere else, to relatives or anything like that. That was the first sentence. The second sentence was: We warn you to respect all conventions in this area. Do you know what a dispatch like that means? Such a dispatch means that in any case the policeman is guilty because if he does make variant A, he violates the conventions; if he does not violate the convention, he must let them in. Not to adopt laws that will make the police and the military or what I know, who else will work at the border, make them guilty. If a cop comes to court, he'll always be guilty. If he doesn't let him in, he's in violation of the conventions; if he lets go, he's in violation of the ban. Now I urge you to go with the law that will be most operational, and here is our option, which means that the Government should decide. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u171	Thank you for your word. Beyond this debate, I would ask, Presidents, procedurally, that we are somehow aware that we are a country that is still based on the Constitution. Mr Gorenak mentioned that he had read Article 92, but he did not mention that we, in fact, need a rational president of the country in such situations. Why not read the article? Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u172	It was a debate, of course. Mr. Janko Weber, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u173	Thank you for the replica, because I find that I was not properly understood by Dr. Gorenak, so I will repeat it again very briefly. Slovenia must react when it becomes a pocket when we talk about migrants. The pocket comes when one of the neighbouring countries or all the neighbouring countries that are members of the European Union close the border. But let's just take Austria for comparison. When Austria closes the border, Slovenia becomes the result of the pockets of migrants. At that time, the Council for National Security, which advises the Government to close the border, shall determine this after the existing decision on the functioning of the National Security Council. The procedure is closed. We are not in breach of any international rules, we are not in breach of existing legislation in Slovenia, because all migrants who are in Slovenia at that time are being treated under the applicable laws. And it's a manageable matter, we don't need this law. But if we accept your amendment to this law, let's say in this case, which I have marked, it allows for abuse. So, in assessing the Ministry of the Interior, in order to create a situation that threatens national security, I can stress that the Minister may, after your amendment, propose to the Prime Minister of the Government that the border be closed. Parliament does not decide that, but the situation has not yet arisen. And here's the possibility of abuse. At any time, the Ministry of the Interior may make this assessment to satisfy, say, the interests of the Prime Minister of the Government. These interests may, I mentioned earlier, be the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank. There may be other cases of confusion. So you're excluding Parliament. And in this case, when we talk about the possibility of a situation being created, the Government's proposal is better in such a way that when it is estimated that something can arise, it is in the procedure with a two-thirds majority that it assesses the National Assembly. This is one of the anti-abuse guards. However, it does not exclude the possibility of abuse. Therefore, this law and the amendment cannot in fact be supported because this law, if adopted, would endanger national security. Once again, it allows Slovenia to become a pocket. When Slovenia becomes a pocket, national security is threatened. For this law, and your amendment also contains this, I will never vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u174	Thank you very much. The text is by Dr. László Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u175	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. After quite an emotional but good debate by Mr Gorenak, it is difficult to hunt this context, but I do not think that is the point. The main point is that, for the first time, I confirm, on my part, that the competent ministry over the past two years – although we may have different opinions on this – may have been quite good, appropriate, even if perhaps here and there, with a delay, followed events related to the migration, refugee problem. If that is the case, I hope and also strongly believe that, in preparing this law, the Ministry has indeed had in mind all possible dilemmas and aspects that certainly exist; and the Minister has probably weighed certain provisions very carefully before she wrote or handed down this law. I come from this, but once again I would like to point out that the sensitivity of this issue is still very high. But that's just the way time is. We can be blinded in one way or another, the fact is that until now the European Union has not been able to unify its species as far as migration-refugee issues are concerned. As we have seen the latest reactions, as we are very directly concerned, the extension of control at the borders of some countries, including between Slovenia and Austria. Otherwise, it does not belong directly here, but I believe that such actions are undoubtedly, unfortunately, a drop per drop of Europe, less and less of the Europe we all want together. If we come from this context, then I understand that we cannot sit still, but we just have to do something. From this point of view, I would not like to repeat what has already been said, but it is clear that preventive provisions, preventive laws, should also be adopted in the field of legislation. And I evaluate this law without a doubt in this context. While the matter may be dramatised, migration and refugees can also be interpreted very differently. But the fact is that in that millions or more of millions of people, we must all be aware that they came to Europe, including through Slovenia, such elements and such groups, which actually represent, unfortunately, still a threat to Europe, potentially also to Slovenia. Thank God, we've never seen anything like this before. Let's hope they don't. But we can't close our eyes before that and claim there's no problem. And I agree with those on the Internal Policy Committee who have stressed that there may not be such migratory flows as they were some year and a half or two years ago; and we want to do so, but we cannot rule it out. It is also probably true that if such migratory flows were to occur, I do not know exactly who has highlighted this, but half of Europe in such a form would no longer be, unfortunately. Nobody wants to do that, and that's why it's all the more important that they try to approach things in this direction. Let me also make a brief proposal. The fact is, he's not ideal. The fact is that some elements and points may also not be recognised from a constitutional point of view. Maybe the Constitutional Court will do that, too, and I don't want to go into that. But when I have to weigh whether we provide security to the people of Slovenia and also to the European Union indirectly, I must certainly stress that I am giving priority to this issue. I believe that the humanitarian and ethical law does not affect the human rights of refugees to such an extent that this could be very controversial at the moment. I say I allow some nuances to be questionable. So we'll probably never get to the common denominator. It is also not appropriate to compare the former migratory flows, from the old century forward through the displacement of nations and so on, if you would like to see a revolution in Hungary in 1956. These were all very different events, very different and very difficult to compare. The fact is that such quantities of people as they have had to leave their homes in the last two years have, in one way or another, undoubtedly the vast majority of those who have had to leave their homes, which no one is opposed to, but also others, Europe is not able to accept at any given time. That's what those countries have said, which are so far or until a few months ago, I'm going to say in a rumor, they've invited migrants. I agree with the bill. The dilemma raised in relation to Article 92 of the Constitution and during the provision of this law was interpreted by my colleague, Mr Battelli, and I agree with that. As far as the provision is concerned, when this law is applicable, I would say this, given the circumstances and the sensitivity of the issue, is the closest option I have to the amendment of New Slovenia. However, I agree with Mr Gorenak that the Slovenian Democratic Party's amendment is the most operational and probably would not even be disputed under the circumstances. But given the circumstances, I think that this option may be the most optimal at this point, I will not say ideal, but optimal. However, it is a fact that if it remains under a two-thirds proposal, then the practical law is impractical in one way or another, because it would probably be very difficult to do so. Let me conclude by touching to some extent that I, as a member of the national minority and as a person living a mile from the national border, know exactly what the problems of such a life are. But even though we are very sensitive to the issue of refugees and we are also helping – and this law does not rule out that we do not help classical refugees – we in particular need to take care of the safety of the people of the Republic of Slovenia and of the European Union indirectly today, so I will support the law and also the amendment proposed by New Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u176	Thank you very much. You still want a debate? I'm asking you to sign up because you're not the only one. Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u177	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I think that the name Slovenia needs to be heard in this House today. There must be a name for Slovenia! I'm talking about Slovenia! For me it is the Slovenian people, the Slovenian people and for this beautiful, beautiful homeland of Slovenia, which we have conquered, we know when. That's what I'm talking about. Citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia voted for me as a Member to work in their interest. And ensuring security in this country is certainly one of the primary tasks of each Member and Member of this Assembly. No Member and no Member sitting here has the right to sit in the Slovenian Parliament and work against the interests of the Slovenian people. Today we are adopting a law that wants to protect the Slovenian people in case this happens, this and this. This law is preventive in nature and it is right not to adopt law when there is total collapse in our country. When inside, as Mr Hanžek said today – we can talk about being a real country, a normal country in the case of 25 000 asylum seekers in Slovenia. My fellow Members, I will now draw your attention to this report and what it says here, and this is on the 40th page of the Court's audit report. At this point, the Slovenian state costs just over a thousand 900 euros to each asylum-seekers. Those who speak against this law, which we are about to adopt today, I ask, which one of you, on the fact that we have 30% of people under the poverty threshold in Slovenia, would pay this asylum if today there were 25,000 in our country, a month of 60 million euros, per year of 600 million euros?Oh, my God! But you can calculate that? Do you know what that means? But you know how to count? A thousand 900 euros a month times 25,000. Calculate how much this is per year. So about 50 million per month times 12. This is about 600 million euros a year. In the fact that we have, I don't know how much, over 30 billion dollars, we're already paying interest. Almost 4% of the positive gross social product is used only to pay interest. And here someone on behalf of the Slovenian people hopes to say that there is no problem, and this is the representative of the United Left, that 600 million euros in this country is a small problem, that there is no problem at all, that we can pay this easily. And we are then a credible country when we accept 25,000 asylum seekers into this country. On the other hand, we have more than a third of people below the poverty line and people with 200, 300, 400, 500 euros in pensions; I don't know how many and how many people on the minimum wage. Ask those people what they think about such a group of Members and Members who advocate it in Parliament. These people are going to ask them if they're normal. This is really an extremely important question for me. I am very sorry that I raised my voice today, but I raised my voice because I am Slovenian in the Slovenian Parliament; and I have this right to defend the Slovenian people and the Slovenian people. For me, Slovenians and Slovenians are the first ones I have to defend in this House. And I will always, over and over, tell you, do this. This seems to me to be the primary, honest, and responsible people who have given me a voice and who also pay me. Everyone else who thinks that we and this country are here to help everyone; I don't mind helping people; but I always say, I am the first Slovenes and Slovenes in this country. I will always do this, always do the same and always strive to satisfy and solve the problems of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia first. That is why I am a proud Slovenian, and that is why I will do everything I can to keep it that way and that Slovenia will remain a single country; not a colony of someone who imagined that I would do it from this country. No one's gonna make it, no one's gonna make it, not even a red star, I'll tell you no.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u178	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u179	Dear Members and Members, good evening! We have before us the Foreigners Act, which, as I understand it, is working for special emergencies, for a time when our country is no longer able to maintain some peace or some security. For a time when we would be threatened that there could be an enormous and very large number of migrants in Slovenia who could not afford respect for fundamental human rights and would also be at risk of ensuring fundamental human rights for our citizens. For such cases, this law, which is before us today, is written. And if you look at who's surrounding Slovenia. Slovenia is surrounded by Croatia, in the west of Italy, in northern Austria, in eastern Hungary. All these countries are members of the European Union. So? That's it. And if all these members of the European Union respect the same asylum standards that we must respect, then this law is unnecessary, it is totally unnecessary. That is why I understand this law only when Member States of the European Union do not respect European asylum policy. In such a case, however, it is reasonable for us to protect ourselves. Migrants will come, I think most of them will come from the south, slightly less from Italy, if they come across the Mediterranean, even less from the north, in eastern Hungary is very well protected. If they do, they'll come from the south forever. And they will most likely come from Turkey, Greece and the Balkan route up. And you have two members of the European Union on this Balkan path. And if these two members of the European Union comply with the standards, then our problem is solved, then there will be no reason to activate these articles, these options and the tools that this law gives us. But in the event that neither Greece nor Croatia do not respect these European standards and that Austria closes the border, Italy and Hungary do the same, what then?Oh, my God! I would like those who so enthusiastically advocate that this law is unconstitutional, unjust and I do not know what else to answer the question and the hypothetical possibility that it will happen; that Croatia will release a large number of people to Slovenia and that this border leave will not be allowed by all the other three of our neighbours. Then what? But it is true that we are sometimes more popely than the pope, that we are adopting some legislation, that some may then write, embarrass and mark us; while other countries are slightly quiet, without any legal basis. What we want to do — the legal basis — the Austrians have already done. They'll be without a marriage basis, believe me, they'll make Croats too. I think they're even preparing the ground to do it easily. How they deal with migrants, how they are treated, how they are treated, it spreads very quickly and it is clear what kind of attitude migrants will develop towards Croatia and thus intensify the desire for these people to come to Slovenia, which I think is also their interest. As far as the possibility is concerned, let's get the movie back on track. I remember the Foreign Minister, and some senior officials, a few months before another larger migrant wave hit Slovenia, with which nearly half a million people came to Slovenia, said peacefully that there was no excessive danger that any increase in the number of people across Slovenia would not be expected. There is this possibility of knowingly lying and deceiving; or they were very ill-briefed and it was their third concern. If today seems like what happened a while ago, that's not possible; I'm sure that's possible. Did the Middle East conflict end? Did the wars end there? I think that in some parts they have further intensified, which means that more people have been driven out of their homes or are looking for better economic opportunities and opportunities. We're coming to Turkey now. Look at the Turkish security authorities and the efficiency. When they decide, Turkey can make enormous numbers through Greece; when they decide in a different direction, it is practically impermeable. And given the situation in Turkey and the relationship that President Erdogan has had with the European Union in recent years, and that the European Union did not get what it expected – the release of the visa regime and at least EUR 6 billion; I think that the answer to the hand is that the reopening of this route will be an excellent tool to put pressure on the European Union again. I think that when the situation on the Aegean Sea between Turkey and Greece improves slightly, at that point we will be witnessing a new migratory wave. Greece will do as it has done so far. It will be in her interest to get as many migrants as possible on the Balkan path. This place depends a lot on Macedonia. We have a very fragile political situation in Macedonia. Without much help from Macedonia, things will be opened there as they once were. Then we have only Serbia and Croatia, where both countries and their representatives are talking about how European, how human beings are treated by migrants; but images and testimony speak for themselves. One is images and images for the public, the other is the real situation. And then we get to Slovenia. The solution to the military engagement at the border was accepted and resolved by the post-festum. And even in this House, there were terrible debates and fears about what this will bring after itself, militarization, all the worst; but things did not happen in practice, and it was not as bad as some of you took pictures; and these joint military-police patrols worked perfectly. And I think that even now the fears of this marriage are very great, and I agree with those who say that they are even politically or ideologically encouraged, but at the end of the second, there will be no. To be perfectly honest, if we actually happen to this law or without this law, that 50, 60 or 70 thousand people will be found in Slovenia, believe me, that every government will react in a way that will close the border. I think Mr Gorenak has made a very plastic presentation of how this will be done. At that time, no one in this House will think about whether the marriage ground is or is not, people from all of us sitting in this House will demand and demand that we do something and protect our own citizens. Will we then accept something on the nose, or will we then do things like other European countries, without a legal basis; I think it is the answer to the palm. Each government, let it be the left, whether it is the government in which the United Left will be in, if I make a plastic statement, if there are 70 or 80 thousand uncontrollable migrants in Slovenia at once, believe me that the Minister of the United Left will also accept or order the border to be closed, because otherwise the citizens here in Slovenia will eat them alive, in quotes. Now, these debates, which we have, about eligibility, about respect for international rules and similar stories, now is a great time to have debates about this for a long and broad parliamentary period, because there are no crowds waiting for us before the border; but if the reality were quite different, things would also be different. In any case, I would reply very simply to all those who pressure us to comply with international rules: this law is made only for that reason and only in cases where international rules fall and other Member States of the European Union do not respect them on this migratory path. What's the problem?Oh, my God! To tell you in advance — yes, others in front of us may disrespect us, but they will insist that we respect these things. And now for our amendment and most of it. I am in the position that any government, whether left or right, has the highest responsibility in the country. Of course, the opposition also has responsibility. But the greatest responsibility at critical times is always borne by the government and its government coalition. And if we demand some responsibility from the government, if we demand that the government do what is necessary at critical times, then the law should make it possible for it to do so. This amendment of ours is talking about exactly that. If a government coalition or a government has decided that the situation in the country is so dramatic, then it should also have the opportunity to make it happen; that its decision cannot be the subject of some political reckoning that its decision cannot be the subject of political blackmail. But if the government has decided to do so, its government coalition in parliament will also do so. Those who do not agree with this, those who will assess in this House that the laws or constitution that have been violated have, under our own laws and regulations, all the possibilities and opportunities to file a constitutional indictment and then prove to the courts how that government has made mistakes. But I think we need to react first, and then we can go with this story. So I'm sure if we're going to have a marriage that requires a two-thirds majority, then there's no law. For one fiscal rule we are not or are not capable of providing a two-thirds majority; for another simple matter we are not able to provide a two-thirds majority; and without any real judgment this law will be invalid. There is no problem, Member Trček, there is no problem, there is no problem, we can have a two-thirds majority, easy; but the objective facts and way in which this house works show that this law will then be invalid, not operational. Since it can very easily happen to you that, despite the need to react at the border and make a two-thirds majority decision to close the border, you can have one third of the individuals in this House who will assess that some other problem is so important to them that they do not support it before this problem is resolved. That's the problem, that's the main thing. I do not claim what Member Trček most likely thinks is illegal, unconstitutional, anything; it can, it is no problem to have a two-thirds majority; only I say that this matter will then be inoperable. We'll see how things go. However, I hope that our amendment will be adopted and that the law will also be passed and that we will at least once prepare the matter before it can happen to us. You know that the government coalition has also been widely criticised by the opposition for saying that the measures are too slow, that they should have been done six months earlier or four months earlier. Well, we are now in the position that the opposition wants to help the minister and the government coalition, but there are some complications in the opposition. We will see how this will turn out; I hope that the dispersion will certainly be in favour of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I've been listening to you all day or for a few hours to make an opinion. Today I will speak because in 10, 15 years I will not sit with my colleagues on another function and we will answer together in front of the cameras with words – Let’s leave now, it’s what it is. I repeat, now it is what it is. These are typical words when there is a situation that has never been carefully monitored and when there have been decision-making functions or the highest decision-making functions of people who do not have pragmatism, who do not feel in themselves the space and time in which they live, who do not have multidisciplinary skills; despite writing praises to their CV before the elections. And to find some narrowness of thinking, especially not thinking in the analytical sense, when you figure out what's going on in the world. I have a few words to repeat. Firstly, the country we set up 25 years ago is made up of three constitutional elements, and I repeat this the fifth time in Parliament. The state consists of a people, a country consisting of a territory, a state consisting of a territory that you defend, which you hold, which you hold with your forces, the police and the military. The three basic constitutional elements of statehood are those necessary for the State to remain. This is the basis, this is the basis of constitutional law, this is something that belongs to some basic understanding of every individual who has at least secondary education in a society. We don't need to think about it, we don't need to debate it, and it's over. Another is what happens to so-called migrations, whether these are natural or unnatural. Most of these migrations are unnatural. What is it that makes me say they're unnatural? They are unnatural because Islam is not just a problem of war, so I am Islam as a religion to generate new wars. The problem of Islam again, I repeat, even for the fifth time, and I will repeat once again how the socio-entity has had a disastrous impact in 100 years on the development of entrepreneurship, the development of culture, science and so on. That's the problem with Islam. And the rich Islamic countries have, over the past 15 years, found that, by reducing mainly Europe and Western civilization by natural resources, their role is extinction. There was an assembly of some countries that today consider themselves extremely rich. And these countries will become extremely poor. 800 years of underdevelopment, because religion had a catastrophic impact on development. In particular, due to the reduction of human rights and fundamental freedoms, it has had a disastrous impact on their competitiveness in a global economy. The only competitiveness was the total depletion of natural resources, and this is now ending. Europe has become an example because of its Protestant, Jewish and Christian tradition, and has developed. Her science, we have technologies with which we can become completely independent of natural resources within a few years. And that's what it means to become an extremely rich country. Of course there's a lot more here. It is also about development, respect for human rights. This means, where we respect human rights, where we respect the diversity that usually people are more integrated, more connected in this, groups. As a result, these groups and teams also make a significant contribution to science. You don't have to think about that either. On the other hand, in production, in the industrial revolution that is coming, which is already the standard in Germany, this is 4.0, which I am talking about in recent months, which is the future, it is also important that they are strongly linked by this and technology and so on. All of this is something Islam and the rich Islamic countries are observing. All these years they have listened to invest mostly their oil-earned dollars and euros in their tourism. Unfortunately, tourism also showed nothing, because this tourism is run in rich Arab countries mostly by German, Austrian and Swiss hotelers. They can't control it either. The next story was that rich Islamic countries invested most of their money in German industrial companies. In most cases they have also tried to be destructive and have been laundering money through various quasi-critical organisations across Europe, trying to destabilize different governments. Most of the money is invested in the so-called quasi-levis media, with which they are once again trying to raise a bad conscience in people in Europe and America if they do not accept migrants. A specialized war has begun. If we let it be a common expression today, that some use the term migrants, some use the refugee, I, like colleague Gorenak, believe that a refugee can't come to Slovenia naturally, can only fall out of the air or come across the sea. In our neighbouring countries, war is not raging; we do not have totalitarian regimes, from which people would flee from death and from extinction, which is why we cannot talk about refugees. However, we can talk about countries that do not adhere to certain conventions and that have left these people free on some routes to the Republic of Slovenia. Another issue that is important for understanding this attack that Europe and Western civilization are experiencing is this attack in three ways. The first direction is the Arab direction, which is the Arabisation of Europe and America. It's a cultural attack on our civilization. The second attack can be understood as sherritation. It is a legal attack, their law, the Sharia law that is attacking European conventional law. And the third attack as such, of course, is a Muslim attack, that is, this faith, which is radical and which those who are not believers understand as enemies of this faith. That's the problem. This triple attack, the refugees, the migrants represent a hybrid war. So it's a hybrid, specialized warfare with Western civilization, destabilisation of Western civilization. Refugees and migrants together represent, we can say, hybrid weapons. About that, I must admit, I was talking about a year ago, I think I had a few seizures. But since I have seen that Mrs. Jelusic, who is also supposed to be a social democrat, is using these terms and other specialists in the protection of constitutional sciences, then I know that this is the analyst I have told you about today or in the last year several times. The draft law drafted by the government, which we have different concerns about, especially colleagues from New Slovenia who have prepared their amendments, we in the Slovenian Democratic Party, is that we must be operationally prepared for this matter. In the shortest time, the Ministry of the Interior is the one that can analyse the security situation that generates data. And it is one that, at the moment, can influence the government and the government can take a decision that will secure our borders. The violation of human rights, as the former ECHR judge said, is essentially a story that if we do not let these people into the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, we cannot violate human rights. That's a fact. On this basis, there is no further discussion because it cannot be. We cannot violate human rights on the ground of the Republic of Croatia, not Hungary, not Italy and not neighbouring Austria. It is important to point out that we see that the structure of people who came to Europe is mostly from Algeria, Bangladesh, Iran, where wars do not apply. But if any of those who talk about these countries are in some positive ways, go take a look. I don't know if any of you have ever been to Bangladesh. If you were in the capital of Bangladesh called Dhaka, in this capital most men's populations do not work mostly, it is extreme Islam. Every, I won't exaggerate, maybe the fifth or every tenth woman you meet on the street has a demented face, most of the time with one of the acids, sulphuric acid, most of the time because she doesn't want to marry in paid weddings, and a lot of the time because of jealous men. So it's about people who don't understand the difference and who will never be integrated into the European community. I know Mr. Hanžek is nervous again. I'll tell you a few more facts. We had some debate today. I also spoke with the Foreign Minister of Austria, Mr Kurz, at two conferences. Finally, I met him at the end of last year in the CSU, where colleagues from Nova Slovenije were, where he had a resounding speech on Friday. I was there on Friday and Saturday. An interesting story that followed that the Austrian People's Party had somehow sharpened rhetoric. Today, there were comparisons between Austria and Slovenia that, according to the United Left, we should receive 25,000 refugees. Look at just a few numbers that will find out which are real, which I explain; and of course I don't read it. Austria currently has €370 billion in GDP. Once again, 370 billion euros. The gross salary in Austria is EUR 2 000 600. If we are looking at that Austria currently has about 8.7 million inhabitants, about 39 000 EUR of GDP per capita in the Republic of Austria. Austria has a border of 37 thousand 500 refugees, I see no reason why Slovenia would accept 25,000 refugees. These numbers, this diversity that our GDP is ten times smaller, we come up with completely different numbers. Today, colleagues have also calculated what 25,000 refugees would mean, including after the Court of Auditors' audit, which made it clear that every refugee with a total supply of more than EUR 1,000 900 costs; and these are the real numbers that we can operate with today. Of course, they are people who most often show their idols in the former regime. That's what the United Left needs to say today, too. So it was precisely that regime that fired refugees and economic migrants at Slovenian or Yugoslav borders two years before the independence. And for that, the people who were shooting, even rewarded by the Yugoslav Army or militia, received prize leave and were rewarded. And someone who walked back then as a judge in a court in Cyprus for the examinations of those people who were shot laughed. He laughed at that fugitive. One of the constitutional judges wrote about him when he worked with him as a judge in a lower court, saying that he was laughing. Today this is Mr Maslesa, who was the Supreme Judge and was the Chief Justice of the Republic of Slovenia. Dear colleagues! This is this duality, which you are always stressing, you are stressing some marriage solutions that have never worked in any country, except where there is a massive violation of human rights, where there has been a breakdown of values, and where people live in total poverty and where this equality, the equality of poverty, which is socialism. It is sad that we even need to talk about it today, discuss it and get involved. We need such a law, we must protect, respected colleagues and colleagues, Slovenia, Slovenian country, Slovenian man, Slovenian territory. We have to respect each other. And in such matters as the survival of the Slovenian population, understanding the situation in the world, understanding hybrid warfare against Western civilization, that is, radical Islam. These are the times and minutes that are decisive at this moment, so even in the Slovenian Democratic Party, if you see, we have been operating in a state-of-the-art way since last year, and we are not playing, as they say, at all times, between coalition and opposition; but we are always state-of-the-art. We understand the Minister, we understand the Secretary of State, we may sometimes have concerns, we have some critical debates. But it's sad, Minister, that we are your allies most of the time. Finally, because I do not want to take the time of my colleagues, I must stress today at the beginning and in the end, I have experienced some disappointment. Ladies and gentlemen, I must admit that I also appreciate your determination at these moments, pragmatism. On the other hand, when I look at a colleague who was once with you as a defence minister following his discussions, I must admit that the only good thing that Mr Cerar did in this three-year term was that he immediately removed Mr Vebra from the position of defence minister, because this man is a great fear for national security. I see you don't understand, colleague Weber, national security. And what you did with your affair at the time, I must admit that the affair is unprecedented in Slovenian history. But when I see your discussions ahead, I can say that you belong even to the left of the United Left. We should move, another chair should be given from Mr. Duck to the government, which is where I can see your understanding. These are not ridiculous things, they are pragmatic matters, they are national security, they are the survival of Slovenians and Slovenes, and they are the survival of Western civilization. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u182	Thank you very much. With the question of Muslimism, you went to the area of history, where you forgot to say that Europe had become familiar with the antiquity through Muslimism. And of course these civilizational flows were more complicated than you were trying to explain, and it was a little bit insulting at some points. Procedurally, Mr. Matjaž Hanžek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u183	Thank you, Vice President. I would suggest that you use the warning a little faster that the National Assembly is not a place where cultural intolerance is spreading. Last year, the Council of Europe adopted, I think, even unanimously, a resolution whereby cultural intolerance, which is called new racism, is classified as, or worse than, biological racism, as we have before. This means that some races claim to be biologically less valuable than others. This is slowly replaced by cultural racism, as the Council of Europe calls one culture more valuable and the other less valuable. One way or another, because it's a bit beat-up. And I ask you not to leave half an hour for someone to shake this racism in the National Assembly; but you shall cease immediately. I wanted to warn you about the transfer of culture. Europe, if there were no Muslims and Arabs, would still be absolutely far below them because we got from them from mathematics to culture and everything else. But I will go to this if my respected colleague, who is widely viewed, is clear to us who are closer to seeing that Muslimism is the religion that begins wars, and I will ask him how Europe has bombarded those countries, not us. I do not understand that we are constantly replacing here, who started the war, who taught others democracy in such a way that even their country collapsed and so on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Well, the problem is such a debate, I agree, and I will pay more attention. Procedurally, Dr. Tashner Vatovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u185	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It will now be four hours from this debate on this law. The Minister did not spend one minute of the hour reserved for this debate. The fact is, this law has been brought by the government into this national assembly. There are some doubts, not only in the United Left, but we also listened to other colleagues. And I think it would be right, if not necessarily, to define the dilemmas that have arisen in the process of adopting this law that still exist; the dilemmas that I have raised in the beginning of the debate, that is to say what the Legislative and Legal Service points out. Since the Minister has not spoken by this time, it shows once again how the executive power is related to this national assembly. If this is the way we go about democracy, we can close the doors, sew those 90 wages, and go home. And let the executive do what he wants. We are now discussing something on our coast, but I think we need some clear arguments and answers from the Ministry here. They have prepared a law, that they may also defend it, that they may say what it is; and that they may reject the doubts that have arisen. And as President, I ask you to try to ensure some minimum parliamentary procedure, which, of course, also includes government representatives, which is why they are also present at the meetings. We have written down in the Rules of Procedure that they participate in the debates and that they give something of themselves.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u186	Thank you very much. As long as I have been in these discussions, the Minister has never avoided this controversy. I think she'll pick up. Mr. Jean Mahnič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u187	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! It is really interesting to hear how the opposition, or specifically the Slovenian Democratic Party, is the one who is the most vocal defender of the law drafted by the government. The law that the Slovenian Democratic Party would draw up if it were alone in the government and led this coalition when we had the refugee wave. As soon as it was announced that Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán would close the border so that he would no longer send illegal migrants to Hungary; when the Croats sent us the first train with illegal migrants. The last alarm and the last moment for the adoption of such a law, and immediately after this law, the closure of the border was when Croats uncontrolledly released illegal migrants across the border, threatened their safety, their lives, threatened the safety of those in charge of working order in Slovenia, claiming to be members of the Slovenian Army, members of the police; and citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. When this migratory wave arrived in Slovenia in October, you met, you called on the world, the world, again, the National Security Council itself. The only measure you produced at the time was that we received a new 37.a Article in the Defence Act, which gives additional powers to the military when it was long gone; however, as a preventive measure. I'll support this law myself. I will also support the amendment of New Slovenia. And if it does not go through, I will also support the Slovenian Democratic Party's amendment, which is even more flexible and allows even more efficient and faster closure of the border; because we know what procedures are in the National Assembly. But we know how quickly the government can decide. There's been a lot of talk about migrants taking nothing away from anyone, so that migrants don't deprive anyone of human rights. If I'm not mistaken, human rights are a right to security. These migrants, too, have their human rights and the right to security. They have the right to security in the first safe country. For me, a fugitive is someone who stops in Turkey, going to Jordan, going to Lebanon, going to another Muslim country, which we know is not receiving migrants. How many did they take in Qatar? How many did they accept in Saudi Arabia? You can imagine if we went one step further so that these countries would accept Christians. No way. They do not accept their own, who have the same faith, how they will then receive someone else. The right to security. Yes, they have the right to security in the first safe country. And that's Turkey. All that is going on, Greece, the Balkans, Central Europe, not to say then about Germany but the Scandinavian countries, is luxury, that is prestige, and there is nothing more than running away from the country that will offer them better social status; not running away from danger. But how these people do it and what they do, we've seen it. They're not doctors, they're not astrophysicists, they're not mechanics, they're engineers. These people are unemployed, these people will never get used to European life, to our values and to the rights we have here. Because these people demand justice; not those we have here, but their rights, their rights according to their faith. But they do not know any duties and are not prepared to adapt. Look what the problems are with the second and third generations of immigrants in Europe, because we have not been able to integrate these people, and there have been two or three generations of them. Now you will integrate these people who come from environments such as the environment under the control of the Islamic State. And by the way, I'm on the right to security. What was the right to safety for those who attended the Berlin Christmas Fair? What was the right to safety of those who were at the football stadium in Paris? What was the right to safety for those who had fun at a disco in Paris? What was the right to safety for those who celebrated the French national holiday in Nice? What was their right to security? By talking about the rights of migrants, we have endangered their safety and their lives, for anyone who opens a newspaper that opens a television channel is clear that there are terrorists among these migrants. That's what the British Prime Minister, who is now no longer telling you, is what the intelligence services are telling you, is what the Minister of Education of Lebanon and the others is telling you. You don't have to be a scientist, I don't know what kind of scientist to know. The Islamic State itself said in 2015: We will send 500,000 migrants to Europe, among whom we will infiltrate our fighters and fighters. And that, ladies and gentlemen, has happened. From 6 to 9 thousand Europeans went to the Daesh side. These people are now returning with this migratory wave. I'm not saying that all migrants are terrorists far from here. But if there's one of them, it's too much, because you're the ones who supported their arrival and thereby supported the arrival of these infiltrated terrorists. How many people have you turned down at the border? You haven't turned anyone down at the border. You sent the Austrians a list of 30 suspects who could pose a security threat. You did it. Now we see what's going on in Europe. Another issue when we're talking about rights. What right do these migrants violate Europeans, Slovenians? They violate the right to freedom of speech. They violate the right to freedom of speech because anyone who opposes their coming, who opposes us taking everything from A to Z, is marked a racist, is labeled a fascist, a Nazi, and what I know what else. But here's the fear. Not us who warn, but the fear of the lefties, the fear of the socialists, the fear of the liberals, because you've managed to create a myth in the last 25 years called hate speech. Here in you packed gender equality and hate speech, that's gender equality, hate speech and so on. Now, in Europe, we have leaders like Viktor Orbán, we have a Polish prime minister, we have a British prime minister, we have different other parties, and unfortunately in America, you have come to power after Ronald Reagan as the most real president of the United States of America, Donald Trump. And now this myth hits you because it's finally allowed to say bob beans, which was two years ago. And that's what you're worried about, that's what you're worried about, ladies and gentlemen, because that's it. Because political correctness is over because people are finally telling you what they think. And because I'm talking about freedom of speech, what happened a week ago. Facebook website Slovenia, secure borders, more than 35,000 pages, has been deleted. And what did this page do? Nothing but publishing images and videos of crimes, crimes committed by migrants across Europe. That's freedom of speech. This is the right to freedom of expression if a website mentions facts. The right to freedom of speech, is that what we're talking about?Oh, my God! And let's keep going, I probably don't have to pay any attention to what happened when the president of the Slovenian Democratic Party wrote a tweet about two national television journalists. Now look, here I got some Facebook chat on Irene Ulčar Cvelbar's Facebook profile. If I'm not mistaken, she's an RTV reporter. This journalist has taken on residents of the block in Brežica, who have begun to sign a petition against the settlement of migrants in their bloc. And it's interesting what Eugenia Carl wrote; what a comment Eugenia Carl wrote, that lady who felt insulted because someone did. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u188	Jean Mahnič, Foreign Act, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u189	marked as a media prostitute. [[…]] Look what she wrote, and it's public.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u190	We're talking about the Foreigners Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u191	This is freedom of speech, Vice President. That's freedom of speech.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u192	I just want to correct you, which topic we're talking about. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u193	Wait with these wishes! She wrote: “Can you please make a contribution and let them step in front of the camera to see them, mental limiters.” That's what RTV Slovenia wrote. These mental limits and all those, about 70-75% in Slovenia, also oppose the arrival of illegal migrants. And once again, I'm not talking about refugees. I'm talking about illegal migrants. But when I am a Turkish Member, I will talk about the refugees. But I am still a Slovenian Member and there are no refugees here; there are only illegal migrants who, under our legislation, do not have the right to enter the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u194	Procedurally, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u195	Thank you. I've been listening for two, three days now to be a threat to how to get to two thirds. Hello! My procedural proposal is that, in the future, as long as I am in this National Assembly, as long as the Slovenian Democratic Party is in the National Assembly, there will never be any Mr Gorenak or anyone to speak improperly about lowering the quality of this house. I used the word "suck" yesterday. I came from the book The Effect of Music, which is a criticism of lacquerism, and later I may even quote it. Let it be Mahnič's, but I'm not going to tell Mr. Mahnic what he is. For what markings you give others, I am also not crippled; you, as chairman, decide what form of speech you will allow here. That's my advice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u196	Miha Kordish, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u197	Procedural. My proposal is very similar to my predecessor's proposal, namely that when there is a very clear racism in the debate in this national assembly, you, as chairman, intervene and prevent it. How does this stifle and bloated cultural racism work? First, someone on a large scale declares that not all refugees or all migrants are terrorists, but then begins to explain the terrorist attack and ends with the second terrorist attack, which then sounds like the most "common sense" such as "if there is one terrorist among refugees alone, it is too much." Which then logically leads to the closure of the borders. Shall I show you the banality of this argument? If there is a single terrorist among the members of the SDS, we must close the borders and deport these people. This argument is certainly attracted to the hair, is silly, does not endure and is a simple lie, after all deception; but the only thing I did is that I replaced the word refugee with the word SDS. By the way, this information when we're talking about terrorism. In the last 70 years, this is particularly significant for Europe, especially within this Western Europe, the vast majority of terrorist attacks have been carried out by right-wing groups. [[advertising from the hall]] For the past 70 years, the entire period since World War II has been plagued by terrorist attacks, most of which have been the responsibility of the extreme right. Just as a historical fact, curiosity, if you want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Before I give my word to Mrs. Girl, I just want to answer. I would like both of you to point out that it would apply to everyone, because paradoxically, right from where the most common warnings come from, it is also from those sent groups that the most — supposedly, not misinterpreted — is the hate speech that the other group warns about. So let us be heard, and this is not true of all. For those we warn, and for those who are destined to do so. Mrs. Erika Deklava, you have a procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u199	I would similarly join the United Left, even though I will try to make a procedural proposal as part of your instructions. What we heard from a young colleague was racism, was hate speech, and above all was the intimidation of people. Let's get some fresh wine. And when we talk about who kills people in a mass way, we can also point out another case, for example, when a 28-year-old German copilot crashes a plane into a hill and kills 149 people or when Breivik kills 77 innocent young people. Let's just say it wasn't a terrorist, it wasn't a fugitive, and it wasn't a migrant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u200	I'm hoping we can frame each other and get along. Here, you have the floor, Mr. Jean-Mahnič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u201	Thank you, Vice President. It was a beautiful demonstration of what I was talking about in my speech. It's breaking that myth. This hate speech breaks down when you — no matter what you say — simply because you disagree with the opposite side — are marked as a racist and are making a hate speech. That's what I'm talking about. My procedural proposal is not for you, but for citizens and citizens and those accompanying this meeting to finally see what this is really about. About some taking away our right to freedom of speech; under the same terms, that it is an hate speech.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u202	Mr. Uroš Prikl, you have the floor. Please let us frame us into content. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u203	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! President, even without your warning or suggestion, I will stick to the topic of the agenda, and I will not go into any extremes. I agree that politics or migration is one sensitive and, of course, also a security issue. At this point, I'd like to point out two facts. One is the cause, and one is the consequences. There are certainly migrant groups of people who are fleeing, or refugees, if you want to, who are fleeing areas where death is sown, war, shells, bombs and so on, as a result of some cause, destabilisation of situations in countries such as Egypt, Syria, Libya and probably could still be listed. Why did this happen? Most likely, the petrol dollars were felt by someone, perhaps very attractive to cheap oil in these areas, but very little was looked at by the people living there at that time. I'm sure these people don't run away from their homes, from their hearths, because they'd like it because they want some new adventures because they want some exodus; they run away for a simple reason because they're after their lives. Action must be taken, my fellow Members and colleagues, in order to destabilize the situation in those countries that I have listed. I have to say, before Russia became active, things went from day to day to day. Now things are kind of calming down, and in some ways there are also soothing tones at the peace conference that we witnessed, the first part, a few days ago. I believe it is necessary to put out the fire first and only then to deal with everything else. I am very disappointed, this is my personal opinion, my personal position, I am very disappointed with the European Union, over its so-called single defence policy, over its so-called single policy in this, second and third areas. It has proven to be ineffective so far, and it is certainly right that the State of Slovenia here is trying to ensure its sovereignty, its territorial integrity and, above all, internal peace and order in the country by appropriate measures. I am convinced that the proposal of this law is an attempt in the right direction, an attempt to ensure, on the one hand, the overall protection of human rights and, on the other hand, security. Security for citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, which is essential; at the same time, the safety of all those who flee their homes because they have been driven out by war and war situations. When I decide whether or not to adopt this law, I cannot weigh here on one hand in part or not at all ensuring the protection of human rights and on the other hand security. I would like to support such a law, from which it will be clear that – here I am clearly and loudly warning again, and I want these assurances at least upon the completion of the government – this law also guarantees the protection of human rights and freedoms for all people, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and also for those crossing borders or at the doors of the Republic of Slovenia. At the same time, the effective implementation of the law also provides security for all of us. As it is said, I am sorry that countries here have to take partial care of themselves and adopt such regulations to ensure that Europe, as our Jurša has beautifully said poetically in his presentation of the position of the Desus Group that this Europe should be a family, is unfortunately not the case. And that is also true, and it has not been mentioned many times through the debates, I have been very careful about this today, I have spent most of my time in this debate room, and it is also necessary to distinguish that one is refugees and one is migrants. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I expect that the law we will adopt will not be a compromise, but an integral whole of ensuring all human rights and freedoms, as well as a security issue. I would also like, as the government has suggested, to accept it with that other guardian if we are talking about the three options available; or whether the measures in the law should be proposed by the government or proposed by Parliament by a simple majority or by Parliament by a two-thirds majority. I believe she's the best security guard and the only one who'll get us to do it with a two-thirds majority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u204	Mr. Benedict Kopmayer, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u205	Thank you so much for saying that. I'd start like this. When I go to visit relatives in Austria or at some cultural event of the Korean Slovenes, I have been required to show for some time at the border with Austria a personal document that either a soldier or a policeman who checks my identity. And so, I believe, according to the Commissioner for Internal Affairs of the European Union, it will be until the month of May. That's what this man says. Those who have ever travelled to the United States of America have been exposed to even more stringent measures and more thorough reviews. Why am I bringing this up? Because each country has the right to determine who comes across the border and to control its borders. This started 300 years ago during the period of European religious wars, and this must also apply today. In parallel, legal exceptions were adopted more than 70 years ago, including the Geneva Convention, for millions of people or refugees who wandered around Europe after World War II. If it were not for the right of every country to control its borders, or today it could be called Schengen borders, there would probably be some kind of confusion or chaos then and today. With this law that we have on the table today, Slovenia is seeking a balance between the security of its citizens and also their human rights and the human rights of potential migrants coming to Slovenia. And the criticism of the European Commission against Slovenia. Of course, the criticism of Slovenia from European institutions and individuals from the European Union would be on the spot if it were well-intentioned; if this European Union did not leave us alone in this segment. Unfortunately, as the colleague has already mentioned, any country that has or will face migrants must act on its own. And that's what we're gonna do today. And what's wrong with that?Oh, my God! We just want to make sure, I'll borrow an address from two newspapers again, we just want to ensure normality at the borders to which there will be a thorny path and remove the porous Schengen. The fact is that this is a more political issue than a legal question. And when we place on the scale the safety of citizens and the so-called disrespect for human rights, which, of course, is not and will not be in our law, because they are built-in fuses, then this bill is acceptable to me and I will support it. With regard to the support of two-thirds of Members or 46 Members of Parliament; I am thinking about this proposal and will definitely decide by the end of this debate. And what has been written to the journalist of the Slovenian newspaper, which I strongly agree with, I quote: “Not Europe of Slovenia, Slovenia should write a threatening letter to Europe, which obviously does not know how dangerous its superiority is.” Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u206	Mr. Janko Weber, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u207	Thank you for your word and once again a nice greeting to everyone! There's a mag in the previous debate. Tonin asked how to react or what we have to do if this law is not adopted. Once again, I would like to explain to him that we already have a decree on the National Security Council, which, in the fifth indent of Article 2, allows the National Security Council to establish that national security is at risk and that it provides for measures to be taken by the Government in this case. And when we talk about migrants, national security is threatened when Slovenia becomes a pocket; or it becomes a danger to become a pocket. This happens at the close of the border of neighbouring countries, in particular Austria. And when Austria closes the border, on the basis of this decree, the National Security Council finds that national security is at risk and advises the government to close the borders. The procedure concluded within half an hour, you are not in violation of any international conventions, you are not in violation of domestic legislation, European legislation; for all migrants who are in Slovenia at that moment, you treat them well in accordance with the applicable legislation and there are no problems. I hope that Mr Breznik has also listened to me in this part, where I see that he does not understand that the sale of Telekom is also a threat to national security. So much for responding to my discharge as Secretary of Defense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u208	Dr. Franz Duck, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u209	Thank you for your word, chairman. Once for a change I listen to this hour and hour, I cannot greet you up on the balcony. I'm going to say this about the introduction, the key problem with this debate is that we are too young. With a few rare exceptions. Comrade Vanch, who is not here now, a colleague from Desus, the oldest member who is currently absent is agile, and some of the above are present. Why? My friend Ferlug, whom I appreciate quite much, spoke otherwise of human rights as a ping-pong. Human rights as a concept haven't developed a little bit in stock. Human rights have been challenged. It's enough to go after Ljubljana, and you'll see how they shot some workers at some strike in 20 years. Human rights were established after two bloody seas, two world wars. Certain people up here, like my 87-year-old grandmother, remember that. He must remember what Maribor was like in the 1950s, late 40s; after 29 bombings in 1944. And now we're playing here somehow, gentlemen, ping-pong. Human rights cannot be violated in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. Parental allowance, free kindergarten for another child, unemployment allowance, hospital allowance, your pensions, ladies and gentlemen, student work; Pojbič, Tonin, Breznik, Dimic, Hršak, Jurša, Krivec, Lah, Irgl and others. ZUJF, a manifest violation of human rights arising from the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, dear gentlemen. And you have the face to run again in Parliament, and I'm gonna be a little pojibičevski, and you're walking around on the roads and inviting these people in. Comrade Han, who is also absent, said a while ago: "Let's stop, for we have already destroyed everything that has been destroyed." You know, gentlemen, if you weren't two-faced, if you really cared for these citizens and citizens, the United Left would never be in Parliament, I would be dealing with the most pleasant development of rail infrastructure, regional development, and I will go to the end. And if the Slovenian Democratic Party were Slovenian in terms of citizens and citizens and democratic, perhaps even I would be a member of it. But we now have here a young president of the SDS Defence Committee, I do not know if he has ever read Article 124 of the Constitution: in providing security, the country stems mainly from peace policy and a culture of peace and non-violence. ‘I don’t know if his words are going this way, if that’s what I’m saying. I'm not going to touch international matters. I've only operated here with our constitution, which I'm sticking to. I would point out only three elements of this law, which is proposed here. In fact, this law has three key aspects for me — the message, the awkward, and the horrifying. Something message, political, because this kind of populism is now a little fashionable, scary people and so on, but I don't underestimate this problem. I could even agree with Mr Beznik that a broader reflection is needed. The only one he has properly given here so far was colleague Bojan Dobovšek, because he is also his profession. The message aspect is somehow this – Don't come to us. And this message aspect and some kind of pre-election campaign was essentially launched on that committee by a resortary minister and a representative of the government legal service, otherwise from the NSI party. And I can honestly say that Kocbek is a lot closer to me than Che Guevara. I'm not Kordish, I'll tell you. Kordesh is gonna kick my ass for this. A very awkward aspect is some sort of rumbling. You don't understand politics. Politics or the Jew doesn't understand this story around the field. You know, a lot of these people, not only those of whom Alenka read the letter, I personally or otherwise know and are in many positions where they want to represent Slovenia and Slovenia and citizens; they are too embarrassed because of these kinds of reactions. I was with Ludmila and Mrs Shergan in Vienna in a delegation of the National Assembly, and they said to me, "How many have you accepted?" My phone burns too from my Styrians, who go to chess because in the quarter of the century, you didn't give them the opportunity to flaunt here. You, gentlemen, are now puffing up like one frog with so many terms up and down. And there is also some horrifying aspect of this law Ah, because it is not so important because we are doing something in stock, and then the Constitutional Court will decide whether it is disputed or not. You know, they draw examples. I live in Maribor. I have been violated and many others have been granted the right to visit you who live on this side of Troy, where our UKC is in ruins. And I could keep going, and I'm gonna stop at this point. And we also have, if I take this law and constitution seriously, a number of problems. You've all waved and criticized this Europe. Nor does Mr Cerar come, nor do your European Members come here. We have Article 3a of the Constitution, which we had to adopt when we entered the European Union and NATO. The position on NATO is identical to that of the United Left, and in NATO, by the way, Turkey and Greece, it works where it says that we will join and delegate part of sovereignty to those associations that will respect human rights. You know, if we're gonna burn this law here or you're gonna burn it, I expect a constitutional law to change the constitution tomorrow. What about Article 48 of the Constitution? He is probably told by a district minister who talks about the asylum and also says that we will offer refuge to those who advocate human rights. Just as colleague Weber said, there are already legal coverages for something like this. And I even agree with Mr Gorenak that we should take action in 2015. That's when we proposed an intervention law. I most agree with the line between colleague Dobovšek and Constitutional Judge Ribičič, regardless of whose son it is that I need some thoughtful intervention law. And here we make a fool of ourselves, start some crazy populism, scare people. If they have not been fully taken to the Constitutional Court, this law will be repealed. I don't know if Mrs Minister will resign or if Cerar will resign. All the legal profession is undergoing a visa of this, except for one gentleman whose name some cannot remember yet, because it is made up of three words, and this is it. The executive does not want to explain whether this is disputed or not, Mr President of the National Assembly is hiding because he knows that Mr Janša will bring him up to date, the most experienced Slovenian politician. Janša is a terrible investment through the economy. We put millions in it. What's he doing here? He's working hard. I'm always talking about pennies, I'm obviously the only macroeconomic guy here. And we're acting kind of crazy on our own. I'll conclude with Mr. Mahnich's paraphrasing. I'm not saying we're all ignorant or out of sight here, but if he's one of us, it's too much. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u210	Mr. Miha Kordish, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u211	Thank you for your word. In fact, I was a little speechless because my buddy Duck just said bob. Well done, Franjo, you said it well. But I wanted to point out the following. Refugees at the gates of Europe are not knocking because of any hybrid warfare, because they are here to bring down the Westerns; and similar lies spread by the SDS. The refugees are here for a very serious and purely real war. Because NATO bombed Libya because then it destroyed Iraq because NATO set off a civil war in Syria because then it attacked Afghanistan. Am I going on? These are processes that have driven a multitude of people from their homelands, seeking refuge in Europe. Then and the leading Western countries are the ones that created us the biggest refugee crisis since the Second World War, with which we must deal today, after all, we pay in part for it. And this crisis has been triggered by our ally countries. Countries that are considered friendly or supposed to be friendly to Slovenia and to any other country. But I'm sorry, whoever has such friends and allies doesn't need enemies at all. At the same time, everyone is the loudest that the borders need to be sealed, that the refugees are a strong security risk and so on. These people are at the same time the loudest lawyers in the war. Who advocates Slovenia's membership in relation to NATO and Slovenia's participation in the wars against the Middle East? Who participated most intensively in this national assembly?Oh, my God! Yes, SDS. True, the refugee crisis was mainly created by major Western countries, but the Slovenian authorities also contributed. And to a large extent, within the framework of Slovenia, we can say that the Slovenian Democratic Party is responsible for refugees at our borders. Janša's government has sent instructors to Iraq, actively cooperated in the occupation of Iraq and the dispersion of the country. It stands all that I have said, but we are not really discussing today because of the marriage proposal that the SDS would make. I admit, they get me into trouble with them quickly, too, because they're the most direct ones, and they're actually quite outspoken in this agenda. They really, really tell you what they really think, what they're doing, what their value system is, and so on. We are here today because of a proposal made by the Government. A government that is considered to be socio-liberal. Obviously, it's not social or even less liberal. It does not save poverty in this country, it gives the rich 80 million euros. Now, obviously, I would also like to bury my borders in front of people who are seeking help from us and who are fleeing the consequences of action by the political classes of Western countries, partly because of the Slovenian political class. The real criminal, who is the first to be called here not to violate human rights, is doing so, are self-proclaimed liberals, who are obviously not even those anymore; so the government, in her name Minister Györkös Žnidar, who is already sitting there and not writing words. I don't know. She must be ashamed. I would have if I'd brought a marriage like this.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u212	Colleagues and colleagues, I'm asking if anyone else would like to discuss it. I'm guessing yes. I'm asking you to sign up. The application shall be made. Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u213	Thank you. A lot of things are coming together now. My colleague Kordish gave me good points when he talked about liberals. Someone once said, if you scratch a liberal on the surface, a fascist appears below. And in a way, this situation is frightening today, because virtually most of the things that have been said today do not separate, who is liberal, who is conservative, who is right-wing, and so on. But we're going beyond that. There was a lot of talk about terrorism. There should be some information here. There's a report; I'll say it in the end. He says there is no concrete evidence that migration flows would be linked to terrorist attacks. This report states that it is in the interest of ISIS to polarise European society. It continues to talk about how marginalisation in society is one of the main causes of radicalisation. The fact that people are not allowed to be integrated, the pressure on the margin, the closing of their doors, leaving them on the edge of a country, leads to radicalisation. This was not written by the Peace Institute or Amnesty International, but by Europol, Europol, in its November 2016 report, the 2016 report on the state of terrorism in the European Union, and another report on changes in the functioning of ISIS. What you're doing today, what most people support here, will be exactly that long-term consequence. If we adopt a law that is in stock today, what will happen if it does. Let's think about it. What will happen when thousands in Europe, because of what we are listening to here today, we have heard an incredible amount today, no other word than racism. And that will lead to radicalization. Not that these people are integrated, that we become an open society and Europe as a historically multicultural society that owes Islam, among other things, that we can count by Arabic numbers, not by Roman numbers. At the end of all this, I think of that image from ten years ago of late President Drnovsk in Ambrus. We all remember his words: “Are you people?”
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u214	Mr. Jerney Gardener, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u215	A fine evening for all together, including the audience interested in this subject! And I'll deserve a reminder, but the vice president will allow it. People who come to the temple of democracy will continue to be welcomed. It's just our culture. That's the way it is. In Novi Slovenija, this law, the Law on Foreigners, is understood as helping the government. Of course, it is a marriage that we accept as a supply — what happens if it does. But remember, can Slovenia afford this moment something like what happened last year when it crossed the territory of Slovenia over 500 thousand people?Oh, my God! 500 thousand people, we've only set up a corridor. We've taken people to the south border and we've taken them to the north border. All in accordance with Article 5 of the Schengen Agreement. We understand. But this is disabled from now on. And given the situation in Turkey, with 3 million people waiting there just to cross the Aegean Sea and come to Greece and go on this Balkan route also through Slovenia – the guard accepted Austria, set an annual quota, and then the Council of Europe did not care much – then Slovenia will become a migrant pocket. In addition, millions of people in North Africa are just waiting for them to come to the promised land and live a better life in Europe. True, even though this law is being passed today, it is already in force under the current legislation that a foreigner who does not meet the conditions for entry into the country is therefore prevented from entering the country. The only option this alien has is if he comes from a dangerous country to apply for international protection. But in this case, the Balkan path will be freed to see this agreement fall between the European Union and Turkey fall, and there will be hundreds of thousands of people who will be able to apply here for international protection. And what do we have left? That is why this law, including the law that protects human rights; we can take care of 2 000 people, 3 000 people, I don't know, set a number to ensure a humanitarian aspect, a security aspect and an economic aspect. But we can't take care of everyone who wants to go to Austria, but they won't, and they'll stay here. Or will these people not then be violated by human rights, for we will not be able to offer them all that we can offer the man? I can take five people home, take care of them, feed them, give them lodgings. But I can't take care of 500 people in my house. Or is it? I can't. This way, Slovenia cannot take care of everything. And in New Slovenia, we view this measure as a completely rational measure that protects human rights. It just doesn't go on forever. Both the rights of our citizens and the citizens who are first, as well as the rights of those who come to Europe for a better life. If I continue, it is a matter of measures that will only be activated. I wish that these measures would never apply, that this law would never be later in this House. I hope that it will be adopted today, but measures that will not then be activated. That's what I want. But what kind of policy are we if we are not so responsible that we do not take any measures to protect ourselves for a time when something can happen? Irresponsible policy. And the difference between New Slovenia and the United Left on the other hand in this law is that you say that Slovenia can take care of an unlimited number of people; in New Slovenia we say that our options are limited. Since our options are limited, we must be careful not to violate the human rights of migrants. Here is the difference if we sum up today's debate and the debates in the past. The Law Amendment makes it clear that this is a matter of preventing a state of emergency. 92. Article 92 of the Constitution, which is also often explained by the Minister, and I see that I do not have an explanation in the Chamber, but that I do not have an emergency situation in these cases, if this happens to us, as I have just described. And the concept proposed here by Nova Slovenija to take these measures further with a simple majority, 46 votes. On the other hand, a two-thirds majority is proposed. It is logical here to support the amendment of New Slovenia, 46 votes. Why? An emergency situation in this country, we need a simple majority, 46 votes. That's enough. For a smaller measure, such as a state of emergency, you require a two-thirds majority. And for this reason, I ask you to support this amendment of New Slovenia if you want this law to be operational as well. Because what's gonna happen? When this problem can arise if you want to activate the operation of this law, then you will have problems; I think with this part of the opposition not, but with one other part of the opposition and with the opposition in its own kind. This is the problem when the operation of this law is blocked. And the law will only be written on paper, but it won't be operational, it won't work. This is why it is very important that you decide today and that this proposal, which is well-meaningly proposed to you in New Slovenia, also somehow lubricate. Furthermore, another problem, the main problem that I would like to stress in this regard, is European asylum legislation. Everything would be nice and right if this Europe worked as we used to in the past when it worked. But this European Union no longer works in this way. The main problem is that European asylum legislation is not adapted to mass migration. No one has ever taken this into account that there is no consensus in Europe on this restriction. And as long as the European Union is so united in solving this problem, then every responsible country will be forced to deal with this migration problem on its own. It's the only way we have left. Austria, Germany, Denmark are similar to what we are taking today. Austria, for example, has set an upper quota for migrants who are willing to accept them. Denmark has almost the same law. And that's when the Council of Europe didn't respond. We have heard many times that we have this moment of the Council of Europe, which is supplanting to the countries of the European Union when we adopt such legislation; but I wonder where the Council of Europe was when 500 thousand people were knocking on the doors of Slovenia, and we brought them across when Slovenia was actually engaged in this crisis and was solving it. It is therefore responsible for Slovenia to step up and resolve this issue itself until the European Union offers answers or legislation for the entire migration process that is currently taking place. This migration process is a challenge not only for my generation but also for the next generation. If you are just monitoring what is happening in Africa, not just war, but climate change, you will see that Europe is actually a promised land for 100 million people. At this point, these people are just hoarding up in Libya, in other countries in North Africa, and waiting for a unique opportunity to come to Europe. Finally, I would like to stress the political aspect. If we do not solve the migration problem in Slovenia and in other countries of the European Union in a responsible manner, the next challenge will be for the etabulared political parties and responsible citizens: irresponsible action will lead to the power of radicals and populists, who will take far worse measures. Do we want to have people like this in Europe? I don't think so. For security in Europe and the world, demagogism, populism and radicalisation are the worst things that can happen to us. That is why it is a successful and responsible solution to the migration problem, including by setting a clear distinction between who migrants are, who are refugees, our responsibility, and the responsibility of this national assembly. Be responsible, someone who comes from a safe country to a safe country, regardless of its origins, is a migrant, not a refugee. He could have applied for asylum in another safe country. The problem is that migrants, or refugees, choose for themselves, which is the safest country for them. We must also try to prevent this by means of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u216	The Minister of the Interior has the floor, Mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u217	Thank you for your word, Vice President. I will begin where we started today's debate. The first observation expected, of course, was that this law was to be unconstitutional. Some of the more precise explanations, in which or why this law should be unconstitutional, have not been heard today. We have heard the main moral criticism, but I believe that the very explanation of the law is so good, also supported by the implementation of the Government's Law Office's representative on the recent committee. At this point, I think it is enough to say that the position of the Government is that we are subject to restrictions within the limits of the Constitution, that is, those restrictions which the Constitution allows, in the fact that the Constitution expressly stipulates that the right to asylum is guaranteed within the limits of the law, on the fact that also on the basis of the amendment of the Aliens Act, certain vulnerable groups of foreigners will still be adopted. However, most importantly, when the measure comes into force, in accordance with the amendment of the Foreign Law, it will not affect all those who will seek international protection against the application of this measure; nor will it affect those who will have already recognised the status of international protection in the Republic of Slovenia at that time. And those areas where this measure does not apply will be exempted. It is also important that the law is directed to prevent an emergency or to prevent threats to public order and internal security. And as has been pointed out several times in the past days, we are of the view that waiting for a state of emergency or a threat to internal security is unconstitutional. In a state of emergency, which is also a very difficult category from a constitutional point of view, with all the consequences that such a situation entails when the existence of a State which is a presumptive state of emergency is threatened, it is indeed difficult, if not impossible, to guarantee other human rights, including the right to asylum. I do not think that this interpretation is based on any convention, nor can any organisation in Slovenia suggest that it must interpret any legal basis in this way. Amendments to the Aliens Act are also the legal basis for action, that Slovenia does not collapse and that it prevents the deterioration of internal security and state of emergency. As regards the final assessment of constitutionality, whether the law is constitutional or not, we have already said this several times, only the Constitutional Court can say that. If this law is found on the desks of the judges of the Constitutional Court, this will also give direction to Slovenia's proceedings in case of overload. If there is a breaking point, which can then pose a threat to public order and internal security, although I believe that it is not ideologically acceptable for certain individuals to do so, but on such difficult issues as the face of migration pressure, it must be based primarily on the rule of law. Perhaps a few further clarifications were made about the procession that led to this law’s arrival in the National Assembly. It is quite clear that I am acting today as a representative of the Government and that the Government has proposed legislation or that it proposes any measures. The Office of the Government of Law has also examined this law before the adoption of the law by the Government from the point of view of the article of the Constitution, which was mentioned in the introduction today, i.e. Article 153 of the Constitution. It is quite clear that laws must comply with the Constitution, this is an essential legal matter. The Office of the Government of Law did not find any confusion, unconstitutionality and irregularities, and the Government has therefore also confirmed this law in all the arguments that I have also submitted. On the Committee, a representative of the Government's Law Service, under the authority of the Secretary-General of the Government, provided additional explanations or presented the content of the Government's position in legal terms. Today, however, we are in the legislative process where this very valuable weighting is carried out. The views of the Government are clear, but it is also clear that only the Constitutional Court can give a definitive assessment of whether the law is in accordance with the Constitution or not. If that's not true, then we don't need a Constitutional Court. Nor is it true that what has been said today is based on some assumption that refugees pose a threat, that is not true. The fact is that any link between migration flows and migrants to a state of emergency, which was an alternative to the formation of this law, which we did not agree on, and these attempts to link the emergency to migration are the securitisation of a couple of excellence. And we did not agree with this because, in fact, this is how migrants are then defined as an existential threat to a country that would require some extraordinary measures. This is another step beyond this framework on which the Aliens Act is based, when migration is still referred to as a classic, as a standard political issue, which, of course, also contains security elements and also requires an appropriate and timely response from the country. Migration is also a security issue, not just a humanitarian issue. I think that we have demonstrated in the past that we are aware of all aspects and that we have taken a comprehensive approach to the migration crisis. As far as the chronology of this law is concerned, there is also much talk about it. Officially, this law came into government procedure last fall. But here I have to add another essential circumstance, we haven't talked much about it, but we've already talked about it in public. I can tell you that this law at the Ministry of the Interior has been on the table since autumn 2015, and I can say that as soon as the next day after the European Commission's visit, when we were directly offered to make Slovenia a hot spot, that is, a hot spot. Since then, all the red lights have been on at the Ministry, all those that have not yet been lit at the moment the migration flow has been diverted to Slovenia. After some unsuccessful attempts to change the normative basis – because the normative basis is also one way to counter or control migration flows, not only measures on the ground, but also legislative bases are essential because Slovenia is a legal state – today this law is before you for one simple reason because we are responsible for security. When Slovenia becomes a pocket, it's too late. The primary problem in this whole complex situation is not the closure of the border by Austria, which is in fact just one of the manifestations of national measures, because there is still no European solution. We know she's not here yet. It is also a problem for Slovenia because it affects Slovenia, but the key problem is that the external borders of the European Union are porous. Of course, we also did not forget the double policies that took place during the migration wave, i.e. the declaratory open borders, and in practice the closure of borders, which also caused enormous problems for our security authorities, who faced extremely difficult situations daily and also made great efforts to control the situation at the end of the day. I do not agree with the conclusion that the Aliens Act would endanger internal security because this law carries an explicit preventive component. If we read carefully, Article 10a states: “If the Ministry of the Interior, on the basis of the information provided by the authorities and institutions referred to in the preceding paragraph, considers that conditions could or have already arisen in the Republic of Slovenia”, it could therefore be that “the changing situation in the field of migration would endanger public order and internal security...” it is clear that this law is aimed at not reaching the pocket. It's not like we're making a pocket with this law. Even before the government's hearing, SNAV is the one who gives the opinion. If we narrow this situation down to a very short summary, today we are deciding how to deal with the situation when we are no longer able to implement the International Protection Act, when in Slovenia, i.e. in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, a large number of foreigners coming across the five safe countries coming across the two external borders of the European Union are unwilling to ask for international protection, and they will not be able to continue because the countries in the north are closing their borders. Our proposal, as we say, stems from all those restrictions contained in the Constitution. We propose amendments to prevent an emergency, because this is our constitutional duty. An emergency cannot be part of a single government's solution, because that would be extremely irresponsible. It is also my firm position that no one can command the Republic of Slovenia that the problem of the European Union concerning migration should be resolved in Slovenia, because Slovenia is not or must not be victims of the fact that the European Union has fallen asleep in the resolution of the migration crisis. This crisis has only escalated in 2015 and has been hot for quite some time. The porous external borders of the European Union are not the fault of the Republic of Slovenia. Today we have also talked a lot about all these letters and visits by these all-powerful institutions at all different levels, European and international, but I think that the primary focus of all these institutions should be to get to the common asylum policy as soon as possible, not to act as a judge or to deal with those national solutions to which countries are actually forced because there is no common solution. This is certainly not the right way; it signals that all these organizations have not done their job, because if they did, they would certainly not be discussing these problems today. Today’s session also confirms in some ways that this problem has been pushed under the rug for too long, but we know how it will eventually come to the surface. The talk was also that we did not explain what the burden is, what objective restrictions are. I don't agree with that. We've talked about this a lot. The criteria are clear in marriage. An assessment based on cumulative orientation or focus, in accordance with what is stated in the law, the Government then proposes to the National Assembly by means of SNAV. Of course, it also depends on the situation, because this situation still has many unpredictable elements. The law is written for emergencies. However, it is important that Slovenia implements the Law on International Protection by the time we assess that we are capable. It is also important that countries, with regard to their potential for international protection, which is also extremely important and is one of the fundamental achievements of civilisation, cannot be given to a common denominator on this potential. The Geneva Convention, if you read carefully, also speaks of the first safe country. There is something wrong with this existing system if there is still a migration wave across so many safe countries and across two external borders of the European Union that is mixed, in which not only those people who are fleeing persecution within the meaning of the Geneva Convention are travelling. It is also important that what the state can do depends on the ability of the domestic political environment. And it is essential that we also begin to talk about where the limit is, what is still what Slovenia can do, and what is the legal basis that is necessary in the event of a situation where things can become uncontrollable. I do not think it is constructive just to discuss in the direction of some absolute concepts, but Slovenia must accept the requests of all foreigners who come to the territory of the Republic of Slovenia at any time. The crisis in 2015 revealed one very obvious dimension, since never before, as far as the European Union is concerned, migration was not so close, so closely linked to the concept of international protection, even though these two concepts were separate. And this is one of the fundamental anomalies of the Geneva Convention in such a complex situation, because it causes less aid or less international protection at the end of the day for those who obviously need it and who need it immediately. The European Commission has also made clear its views. This is also the case with our law that there must be no right to choose the country in which international protection is requested, because this is also a factor in making it difficult for countries with limited capacity to confront. The objective fact is that it is mandatory to register that it is mandatory to take fingerprints and that migration flows management must take place at the external borders of the European Union in accordance with European Union legislation as well as European Union standards, as confirmed by this migration crisis and also by terrorist threats which are not to be ignored. Of course, internal security is inseparably linked to today's debate. Internal security has been a fundamental driving force for re-temporary control, which has been re-entered at the Slovenia-Austria border. The police are guarding the Schengen border. In fact, in this situation, as we are, the Schengen de facto fell apart. It is precisely internal security, which means that Slovenia must do everything or take all measures to ensure its internal security, because we know what it means for Slovenia to leave the Schengen area. Schengen is our national interest as small countries. And it is precisely for the sake of ensuring internal security that we are obliged to weigh between humanitarianism on the one hand and the objective capabilities of the country on the other. Therefore, it is also a key issue, which we are also discussing today and which is actually addressed by this law; that is, when and how it cuts into the right of asylum when the state approaches such a situation, when public order and internal security can be seriously threatened, which can therefore affect the difficult exercise of the vital functions of the State or central institutions. This question is not only placed in our national context. However, we are a member of one international environment, but it is necessary to add here that international legal order must also adapt to the modern situation, because today's meeting, as has already been said, confirms that it is not an adequate situation with mass migration that is not identical to the concept of international protection. Here we must be aware that there are two separate concepts. When the Geneva Convention was adopted, those who monitored these materials a little more closely, even then, there was a talk about how, in the context of humanitarianism, which was in place at that time and is absolutely still today, they also faced threats to internal security. If you read the Geneva Convention carefully, it also contains these elements. And in modern times, i.e. at a time of globalisation and express mobility, which is a constant of today's time, but which was not at the time of adoption of the Geneva Convention, today the relationship to the security dimension is even more important, but not less important. As the security environment is changing, countries must have sovereign control over illegal migration, and of course it is also in the interest of potential refugees that international protection is properly regulated. However, the prerequisite for this is that we begin, in view of all these elements that I have listed, by changing the context, given the situation in the world when the Geneva Convention accepted that we are also dealing with country constraints and also with the question of practical feasibility. These issues are also addressed by Mr James C. Hathaway, whom you all the time refer to as some judge who has judged that what the government is proposing is an abominable move. But I must tell you that he is also talking about the need to harmonise moral criticism with practical constraints and that international law between countries is a consensually agreed legal order. If the legitimate limits of countries are not respected, it is not expected that international law will perform that function, which is of a humanitarian nature, because the declaration of formal standards is not sufficient. This is also Mr Hathaway's position. Whatever he has been informed that we are doing, I think he has very partial information, because if it were fully explained to him, he would certainly recall these positions, which are very much in place, because he calls for an international legal order that governs refugee law to be reviewed precisely to achieve optimal solutions that will be able to respond even more effectively to the challenges of modern times. Mass migration is one of the components that is important today; the asylum system is not something that could be likened to mass migration movements of people, but serves a completely different point. If the only correct interpretation was that Slovenia was the one where the European problem would be solved, then I am sure that Slovenia would not also sign the Geneva Convention. We talked a lot about the law. Perhaps just a little bit deeper to refresh our memory that it will be perfectly clear that this law is intended to manage an exceptional situation when we are no longer able to implement the Law on International Protection – not without not wanting to, but every country has its limitations, including Slovenia as the smallest country on the Western Balkan route – in a situation where public order and internal security as well as the functioning of the State and its subsystems may also be at risk. The law now clearly states that these are individualised registration procedures, which are also important for our safety. We need to know who is entering our country, of course, when checking all those circumstances that are essential to determine the potential vulnerability of persons; and when we are surrounded by the very safe Member States of the European Union, where there are no systemic shortcomings of asylum systems, because we are part of the common European asylum area and the rules are perfectly clear here. The law refers to a situation which Slovenia will have to adapt to in some bad, black scenarios; an exceptional situation when it is no longer possible to implement the law. It is possible to introduce exceptional measures under precisely defined conditions, criteria, assessments; on an important assumption that we are surrounded by the safe Member States themselves of the European Union, which means that there is no breach of the principle of non-refoulement, so no one would return to the country, potentially persecuted persons would not be returned to the country where their security or freedom would be compromised. Therefore, it is without prejudice to non-refoulement, without prejudice to the prohibition of torture, without prejudice to the duty to protect human life, dignity and all those rights which cannot be excluded under any circumstances. Maybe I'll go back to the Geneva Convention for the rest of my life. The fact is, there is absolutely no secret that countries have been having difficulties implementing this Convention for quite some time. This may be new for Slovenia because it is the first time it faces mass migration, but countries have been working for quite some time on the idea that international legal order needs to be revised. At the time the Convention was adopted, there was no problem with that classical treatment, individual treatment. But since there are very large numbers to change the nature and structure of migration flows, there are problems in practice. The basic concept of the Geneva Convention, which is based on the abandonment of countries as a solution to the refugee problem, is also a problem and this is also seen as an inappropriate solution in the international legal community. It is necessary to seek solutions based on the individual’s right to remain in his country or to return home or to enjoy all the fundamental human rights that all people should have. The Geneva Convention, as such, is under migratory pressure. Since this does not fully correspond to the current situation, this also causes applicants to be considered in the context of migration control, because this is something which is certainly beyond the requirement of non-refoulement. This is one problem that will need to be analysed from other perspectives. In particular, it should also be stressed that the Convention does not take into account the potential impact on host countries, either in financial, social or political terms. This is certainly one of the tasks with which not only Slovenia, but also the international community, must work intensively in the coming times to reach a system that is optimal for the protection of such important rights as the right to asylum.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u218	Since I notice that there is still interest after the debate, I ask you to apply. The application shall be made. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u219	Thank you for your word. Once again, I will highlight why this law constitutes a real legalisation of the threat to national security. It is very clear in the law that conditions have already arisen that endanger national security. And once this situation has arisen, the law states that the Ministry of the Interior prepares an assessment of these emerging situations, which are already of a nature that threaten national security. Firstly, this means that the Ministry of the Interior has not done its job because such a situation has arisen; and you are trying to obtain coverage in the National Assembly for such conduct. Secondly, when preparing an assessment when the situation has already arisen, it is not time to assess, but you insist: In the assessment you take into account the situation in the countries from which foreigners intend to enter or enter the Republic of Slovenia and the situation in the area of migration in the countries of the region. Excuse me, since when is the Ministry of the Interior responsible for external action?Oh, my God! This is the Ministry of the Interior, providing security in the country. Since when are you responsible for determining the external situation?Oh, my God! Whoever gave you this mandate is the next question. And even when you make all this assessment when emergency situations have already arisen or situations that threaten national security, you go to the Government, the Government of the National Assembly proposes that we discuss this and decide on the measures. I'm sorry, it's all in a situation where national security is under threat. I can't vote for this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u220	The word is from Dr. Simon Kustec Lipicer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u221	Thank you very much, Vice President. Minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues! I have been keeping a close eye on today's debate, something important from the office as well. For two purposes, one is to try to enlighten it from the point of view of the broad media, the professional debate and also the political debate that has been taking place over the past six months on this subject. Secondly, from the point of view of understanding whether we have been able to get together as much as possible. And what do I find out? I find that there are still many points where some of us agree and where those we agree with disagree. And that, in fact, is at all the key points. The first item is the question of how we perceive the situation today. Do we live in a country and a world that is no different than what it was five years ago, 10 years ago, 50 years ago? Do we live in a world where we are self - sufficient? Whether we live in a world where we need not only each other but also more today; but we also need solidarity assistance, I speak for the country, the neighbouring countries, its international mothers, whose Member State is to help it when the country is in trouble when it has problems. Those who estimate that the country acts smoothly as usual in all previous years certainly see no need to connect with anyone to cooperate with anyone. On the contrary, those who consider the situation to be different are expected to have an appropriate different type of cooperation within and outside their own species; we do not get it. And that's a fact. Because if so, then believe me that today’s debates with great ease and, above all, with ease of heart, all would give up together. But we can't because we can't, and it's not responsible to act like Grafenauer's Pedenjped, who closes his eyes and pretends not to be; unless we see fear. Next question. If we detect that something needs to be done, what we will do. We're different here, too. Just like we're different about how we're going to do it. Why? Because we differ in ideological ways, in value, in what kind of world we live in, and in what kind of reaction or attitude to this world we must have. Because we have a variety of political responsibilities because some of us are on the side of coalition, government, direct responsibility for what we will do, and also for what we will not do. And because in such cases you are on a safer, more comfortable, opposition side, when you can on one hand your idealistic, if you want, even romantic visions defend; on the other hand, you defend reverse solutions as seen by the coalition side, because this is also how you can get political points. Then there is the third segment, which has also been observed several times today, why we are different. Personal pains may have been very clear in some cases. But you know what? In such a fragile and vulnerable state as our country may find itself in, the issue here is objective, broader national ownership. When I listened to one part of these discussions, I remembered the situation that I was on my way to work today, and I had the opportunity to hear before kindergarten. One daughter went to kindergarten with Mommy and said to her mother, "Mom, I want to have a house so I can have a puppy. How simple; but so difficult. And that reminds me of what awaits us today. What we are experiencing right now is what we want and what is beyond our reach. It's either unrealistic or realistic. How much we're willing to give and what to offer. And where we have limitations. We have a lot of limitations. We have heard a lot about this today, but we have not heard of alternatives. Just the criticism and the perception that we're cannibals, that we're impatient, is not enough. Believe me, none of us want to make the decisions and decisions we face today. Nobody. But some of them we have to. Some of you have made an egregious assessment of the need to cooperate and be present in this case. I hope that some of you remain at the level of constructive criticism and mirrors of this in a political sense. This is going to be a political decision today, no more than that. We have done everything at this time to ensure that this political decision has taken into account all possible substantive and also constitutional findings, comments that have come to us. The way we worked together, not only in a political sense, but also in a broader way; that we listened, we had communication with the international public and professionally and with international organisations. How well we have done our work will be told by other institutions if they decide it is necessary. That is why we have democracy, so we also have a system of balance in control over what certain political institutions are doing at one level of power and something else. The Ombudsman has already said that she will carefully examine what we are about to do today, I believe we will accept it. Such a decision will potentially mean the next step, this is a step towards the Constitutional Court, so we have, we have, we have, we have, we have, a constitutional court, that in the event of doubts, doubts, uncertainties about the possible violation of the Constitution, these institutions will judge. This is not the task of the political part of the legislative branch of power. He has to be careful about it, but he's not totally committed to this last judgment here. As far as the amendments are concerned, this debate must proceed. The amendments primarily serve as safeguards to avoid abuse, usurpation, if you will, of the political will of certain political institutions. On the one hand, the proposal to keep the whole decision at government level is too small for the Modern Centre Party. It's not enough what we believe our democracy offers. On the other hand, she is a protector, where the National Assembly also approves or finalises the single assessment or call of the National Security Council and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, of what we need. In exceptional circumstances, such a majority is a common majority. In the case that we had with the Defence Act when the military received the police's provisional powers and took over one repressive body under the control of another also a certain part of its tasks, it is normal that two thirds were needed. The question now remains whether, in the event of the activation of this measure, the solutions set out in this so-called Article 10b of the said Aliens Act for such a strong two-thirds majority remain open. We have also followed all the arguments that we or you have shared with us today regarding the height of this quorum. In terms of the effectiveness of the activation of the measure itself, it is a reliable assessment, on the one hand, that the normal majority is sufficient; as is the case in terms of what the majority is envisaged in emergency situations, that is, in situations that are much more than what we are talking about today. On the other hand, there are human rights here. What the Minister has now told us in a very broad argument is being addressed; and what the Constitutional Court will also assess if so. In short, the difficult, difficult content with cities is an overly populist debate that we have faced today. On the other hand, it is very simple, but at the same time a difficult political responsibility that we will assume today for all those who will support the amendment of the Foreign Law. Why are we doing this? We're not doing this because we're helping the government, as someone said before, but because we're helping our country and people in our country with this move. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u222	Dr. Franz Runczek, please, you have a procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u223	Thank you for your word. President, I understand that my colleague Simona is now in a difficult situation and a role. This session, I have followed this point very closely, I have been as constructive as possible, the folk asks me why I am dressed today when the constitution is being violated; I also want to express it this way. Article 153 of the Constitution states: Consistency of legal acts; Laws, regulations and other general acts must be in accordance with the Constitution. Minister, listen to me. The fact is, the government's legislative service has not given this law a green light either. I have this information verified from unnamed sources, and that's probably why you're hiding someone from this job, and someone else is walking and texting. And it seems to me after this debate and I will probably make a proposal to amend the Constitution so that in the future all of us 90 will swear on the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. We're a secular state to swear on the Constitution, and I hope you'll read it later. And in this context, I would like to ask you procedurally to once again invite the Minister to define the constitutional issue of the proposed law. The minister gave us a story that's just being sold, like we sell to politicians, she didn't answer any questions. Unlike the rest of you with the numbers, I start spinning when they're checked. Nor did she answer the question of when such capacity, such capacity and other capacity are filled, what is our limit. She did not answer a number of questions raised by the government's legislative service. The president of this government is hiding, and there are some serious problems for the President of Parliament, except for an elderly lawyer who could also be exposed to human rights violations, particularly in relation to women's sex. Everyone's got a whole bunch of problems about this. Now we're pretending that's not the case. From this performance of colleague Simone, which I don't really blame her, am I not state-made?Oh, my God! Well, good morning.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u224	I can ask the Minister and all other colleagues if they want to discuss it further; and I invite them to sign up if they are interested. The application shall be made. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u225	Thank you very much. I listened carefully to these discussions, including yours at the end of the day. In some debates, a person will find out what you have said, but in some cases he will not. Let's say I haven't figured out anything about how you're gonna vote and what you're gonna support. But it doesn't matter. The leader of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre, then in the second part, you gave a nice description of who you think constructively and who you don't; that we are clear, is fine. This is one typical law with which an ugly opposition would do something to the opposition. Screaming with the protection of human rights, this law brought you down along with all those who are breaking into your party, and those who are on the outside were looking forward to breaking into Ljubljana by about 50,000 people and throwing you out of power. This would be done by an ugly opposition. But we are constructive opposition because you tell us so many times that you don't. We went across the street and we're helping you. Why? Since this is necessary for this country; not for your sake, it is necessary for this country to do so. But once again, let us repeat the matter that is most important in all of this; this is that we have to accept something that will be operational. And the constitutional majority, which is still the main thing in the game, is not an operational matter. It's not working. It'll be late. The better is the common majority; but it's not 46, that's 24, that we're clear about the majority we're talking about. If there are 46 Members in the Chamber, 24 is sufficient because it is also in article 92 of the Constitution and is better. Far better is the option that we have on the table and that's in the game. Does that mean who's gonna jump in when these situations are like the bill? A government that will decide. They'll press the button and the iron door will go across the highway at Lendava. They're already set up there and somewhere else. And that's the way it is. And that is why we want to help you in this context to support our amendments. Why? For a basic reason, because you're going to work easier, not us. You'll work easier, it'll help you. But if you insist on your constitutional majority, which some still walk around the halls or elsewhere, you tied your hands together. Mrs. Kustec Lipicer, it will be as if you handcuffed yourself because you will not be able to work. So let us understand and support something that is operational. This is our proposal that the government decide on this and that it is not decided by anyone else; at least by the constitutional majority. Because the constitutional majority is dangerous here because you won't have it or we won't have it. Whatever government they're in, they're not going to have it. Therefore, the call for support for these amendments, which I find to be far more constructive, to all those who reason. In fact, one part is not reasonable, part of the Members today is unreasonable, that is a fact. Wave up or down, but those who claim that this law is not necessary, those who claim to be a constitutional majority, those who intend to vote against or demand a constitutional majority, are unreasonable. But those who are wasting their human rights nonsense, I'd rather stop because I'd say something ugly, and I won't. You cannot violate human rights in Croatia. If you close our border with Croatia, you have not violated human rights, because you cannot violate them in the territory of Croatia, that we are clear. Mass violations of human rights will occur if all of this moves to us and takes Ljubljana and another major city and lives in tents, walks the streets and so on. It'll be a violation. In addition, for all those who cry out about human rights, a thousand 963 euros per month per asylum seeker. You are irresponsible those who continue shouting that they still need to be brought to Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u226	Dr. Ducky, please, you have the floor. You have a few seconds.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u227	I'll be brief. You know, my mother has 447 euros in pensions due to such as Mr Gorenak and others, because of the ZUJF; and not because of the refugees. But if we're talking about the border, Comrade Gorenak, I live at this border, and you won't be able to shut it down completely, even if you're doing a wall like Israel. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u228	Thank you very much, Dr. Runcho. Colleagues, colleagues, anyone else want to discuss this? I guess not. I also conclude the debate with this. The amendments will be decided in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I hereby terminate this agenda item and the 26th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed at 8.15 p.m. Thank you very much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u229	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the National Assembly. Before we proceed to the voting process, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: 2, 3, 7, 8, 5 and 9 of the agenda. We are moving on to the votes of the National Assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the interrupted 2nd item of the agenda this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Foreigners, following an urgent procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 16. 1. 2017, which you received on e-klop. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 1. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the New Slovenia Group becomes irrelevant under number 2. This amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to Articles 5 and 5.a. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment of the same proposer to that article shall become irrelevant. Dr Vinko Gorenak has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u230	Thank you very much. On the table, we have a government proposal to close borders under certain conditions for illegal migrants with a two-thirds majority in the National Assembly. Since we have assessed as a party who knows what he is doing, and which is constructive, that the constitutional majority is something that cannot be achieved, something that will not be achieved in the future, we have tabled amendments that speak of such a decision being made by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. This means that we are proposing a solution that is operational, which can be implemented within two hours at a political level and within two hours the police are at the border and wherever we have it. In short, it is operational and immediately possible to implement the matter, and we propose such a proposal. Regardless of the fact that we are not a government party, that we are the opposition, that you are in the government, we want such a solution, which is in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and you will do it. Other countries have similar solutions, Austria has sufficient government decision, Germany has sufficient government decision, Scandinavia has a government decision, Britain has a government decision. We therefore do not know why we should count on a two-thirds majority in the National Assembly, which means that 60 or more Members should vote in favour of such a decision. 60 Members or more will be very difficult to obtain, even if it is only an unintentional or deliberate absence of individual members of the National Assembly, or of those who will be bitterly in favour of a contrary position. Our proposal is a rational proposal. The border should be closed and decided by those who can decide the fastest and most effectively, and this is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. There is no need for us to go to the two-thirds majority of the National Assembly, because neither one government nor the other government will reach. This means that we will adopt a law that is not operational, which cannot be implemented in the field today, as cannot be implemented in the field by the Defence Act, which has also been adopted by this composition of the National Assembly and confers unknown powers on soldiers. Soldiers don't understand what this is about. But the ones who run them, they don't. In short, let us not adopt a disability law; let us accept our amendments. Let us adopt a solution that is operational and immediately enforceable by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the police. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u231	The United Left shall have an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u232	Thank you for your word. I wanted to do it on my own, but I'll do it on behalf of the delegation. Dr. Gorenjak must have unknowingly begun the topic of racism. It's an acceleration lesson. Paul Virilio is an author. Article 92 of the Constitution states in the third paragraph: Where the National Assembly cannot meet, the President of the Republic shall decide on the matters referred to in paragraph 1 and 2. War and state of emergency. The President of the Republic, who needs to be rational, can decide even more quickly than the government, so these amendments are superfluous. These amendments here only deal with how much of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia will violate. Of course we're against it. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u233	Dr. Vinko Gorenak has an explanation for the vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u234	Thank you very much, President. Mr. President, you have allowed a controversy with me. Okay, but I'm a second-rate Member. At least for you. What Mr Trček said is not true because he speaks of the exceptional situation under article 92 of the Constitution when Parliament is not working. We are talking about the normal situation in this country and the time when there are no emergencies and when the Government of the Republic of Slovenia can take such a decision and effectively close the borders without being a state of emergency. There will be a state of emergency when you have 100,000 people hungry, thirsty and barefoot in Ljubljana and in Slovenia; we will not be able to inflate them. Then this will be the beginning of a state of emergency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u235	The explanation of vote in its own name is given by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u236	Thank you for your word. I will not refer to the gentleman who spoke before me, but apparently someone in normal condition wants to create an emergency situation, as also pointed out by colleague Weber. That's another reason I'm going to vote against it. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u237	We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 50. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 1. An explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats is given by Mr Jernej Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u238	Good evening, everybody! In New Slovenia, we propose to amend this article, namely to delete the “two-thirds majority” in order to activate the measures of this law, which is defined by the law, and to transform it into “a fairly ordinary majority of Members”. This is a proportionate measure. This is proportionality, because the state of emergency in the country is simply a simple majority enough to be voted on to imagine us. And it is unimaginable that in order to activate the measures of this law, i.e. the closure of borders, we would need a two-thirds majority in this National Assembly. And that's logic, and that's what needs to be followed. It also means better operationality and functionality of this law. If we search for a two-thirds majority, then the coalition that will rule will get in a lot of trouble; here it will have scissors and linen in its hands. And the government is here to decide, the coalition is here to decide and to take proportionate measures. So the opposition, in New Slovenia, we give every single government the possibility that this law will actually be in their hands; and so is the case. For when we need these measures, believe that the opposition may be able, but it is not necessary for such a structure to dictate to the government; or for some coalition parties to dictate to other coalition parties that, say, these measures would not then be activated, even though they would be necessary. Perhaps even in the desire to have a state of emergency as a result of this. Let's follow this analogy, proportionality in particular. This is essentially a follow-up we are proposing in Novi Slovenije. For this reason, we believe that the majority is sufficient to activate the measures of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u239	Dr Vinko Gorenak has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u240	Thank you very much. With the previous vote, we have gambled away the ideal opportunity for the government to act effectively in this area. I'm sorry you did that. But since we are a constructive opposition that does not look at who is on the government, who does not want to stumble you on this path, we will also – I also stress – vote for a proposal that is much worse; but much more effective than what you want. The proposal, which is therefore on the table, is the New Slovenia proposal, which speaks of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia assessing this, sending a proposal for a decision to the National Assembly, a document to the National Assembly. The National Assembly, unfortunately, will have to listen to all the speakers again to the committee, and then we will come to the plenary session of the National Assembly, where, according to the proposal of New Slovenia, the common majority will be enough. This means that any coalition, left, right or any other may vote on the closure of the borders. And that's much better than what you want, and that's the two-thirds majority. Since then there are two conditions, 46 people have to sit in this room and most must vote “yes” This will be much easier to achieve than the constitutional majority for which I warn you again, we will not be able to achieve it. No one will be able to achieve it, the consequences can be clear, the consequences can be the massive arrival of migrants into the country, in the Republic of Slovenia, as we have seen in 2015 and 2016. The issues will be uncontrollable, no police can handle the matter, nor can we if this is repeated in the way we saw it before, in 2015 and 2016. I therefore call on you, including all the other parliamentary groups, to choose another solution that is not as effective as ours, which you have rejected; however, it is ten times more effective than that proposed by the coalition, which is a constitutional majority. The amendments of the NSI Group of Members will be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u241	Mr Simon Zajc has an explanation for the vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u242	Thank you, Mr. President. All day long, I am hearing that the marriage will be inoperable if we leave two-thirds, every other word is – the coalition is cooperative, so these two oppositions, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, the opposition is constructive, cooperative, so I'm not getting along. [[...]] For that reason, I will object. In my own name, I now explain my voice, and I will oppose this amendment. I think at least we need to let this guard in this law make it two-thirds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u243	We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 25. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 25.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done voting on the amendments. Since the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 1 was not adopted under Article 1, they sent the amendment of the same proposer to Articles 5 and 5a irrelevant. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted the amendment to Article 1 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this article? [[No, no, ……]] I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted at the national working body and meeting of the National Assembly have led me to believe that the draft law has not been harmonised; and that the Legislative and Legal Service, in its opinion, has warned that both the proposal and the amendments adopted at the national working body and the meeting of the National Assembly do not remove its concerns about the compatibility of the proposal with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the international obligations of the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. An explanation of the voice? An explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors is given by Dr. Matej T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u244	Thank you, President. This law is kind of a symptom. This law is a symptom of the fact that, in 2015, this government was unable or capable of doing nothing in terms of managing migration trends. The fact is that we are now adopting a law or adopting a law that somehow conceals this incompetence. It conceals that during all this time there was no serious contingent plan to restore the plan that had been drawn up. It has not been possible for the Ministry to achieve human resources reinforcements that would allow what is crucial in all this story, i.e. individual treatment of all those who apply for international protection. Of course, there was not a single step in the direction of updating integration plans. You will today, with full, objective and state-of-the-art responsibility, adopt a law that is potentially unconstitutional. We have listened to moralization as to how irresponsible it is not to adopt this law. And I think that it has been said many times or enough today, sometimes even figuratively, that irresponsibility on the part of those who are simply beating or turning their backs to stop. Just before the vote, we heard once again that most of the concerns were not resolved. There is a shadow of doubt above this law, a shadow of unconstitutionality. I wonder which way we'll go if we continue this way. So from some policy of fear or intimidation of citizens and citizens, we will adopt laws that will hide some of the incompetences of certain sector ministries. To conclude, I would only add that the puppy we had previously heard about was not and will not be taken by the refugees. And that puppy was already taken by this party, the coalition, and also by all those who support these policies. And at the very edge perhaps as a reminder, because of course it is necessary to watch in the long term, remember the stories erased, remember the stories of the savers of the Ljubljana Bank and remember if this is obviously the only thing you hear about the financial consequences. And this story can lead to the same situation, and in the end, citizens and citizens will be the ones who will be in the short term. Besides the fugitives.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u245	Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? Here you go, Dr. Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u246	Thank you very much. I think that we have made one very important decision; and a person would like such moments, a person would like such moments. I would like them in particular because the situation is such that it would come in a way that the largest customer in this country is the one that is the engine. Now the biggest customer in the country is a problem. There have been problems to this day, and it is only today that some reason has prevailed. Today is, I congratulate you for being able to respond wisely. But it is true that you would like to do so sooner and more times. So we adopt a law – and we will vote for the law, that is understandable – which is not the best. This law is today a product that started at the interior ministry when we heard it earlier, in 2015 or ever. This has taken too long, ladies and gentlemen. It took too long. We must not endanger countries and citizens by delaying serious and smart decisions. I am happy, as I said, that today we are adopting this law, which is much better than the basic law adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and which some have so actively opposed. I'm absolutely not afraid of the consequences, even if any instance finds anything anywhere. The problem is just something; they were erased there before, and the banks don't know what they mentioned. The only problem is that this Parliament and this government, whatever it is, can be placed on its feet and cannot kneel before what the Brussels bureaucrats write such and different varieties. We have our own constitutional order, we have our own constitutional court, and there is no reason to exploit the political themes as they have been erased, if you wish, for daily political purposes; and when the solution is finished, we find that there are three times less than they have lied to us. We must also take a firm, clear and loud stand in the case of this law, and we will sometimes apply it or not. Our Slovenian voice must still be very strong in Brussels, which is from a television screen, a radio microphone or directly in Brussels. We have to stand on our own feet, even if someone tries to bring this marriage down and if anyone threatens us for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u247	The explanation of vote on behalf of the modern centre Party Group shall be mag. Dušan Verbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u248	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I am sorry that I cannot have a little discussion with the honourable Member, who has just presented the position of the biggest opposition party. However, I present the position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, where it is very clear that we will support the proposal of the law, since, according to our assessment, it is without prejudice to any of the rights which cannot be restricted in accordance with Article 16 of the Constitution, since it does not repeal or suspend the right to asylum or violate international legal acts, does not prejudice the principle of non-refoulement, does not undermine or prejudice the absolute nature of the prohibition of torture. In the past, the Republic of Slovenia has clearly demonstrated that refugees are treated humanely and in solidarity. And that's how we're gonna do it in advance. We will respect human rights and democratic values. We are an open country, but we must be prepared to change the situation in the event of mass migration pressures, abuse of the asylum system, as well as the duty to take measures that enable public order, internal security and the smooth functioning of the country in the event of mass migration. And the amendment to the Foreigners Act is such a national measure for the management of mass migration that is needed as the European Union's single response to the changed security situation is not adopted. That's why we support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u249	An explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats is given by Mr Jernej Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u250	The first thing is; in New Slovenia we will support this law. The law is helping the government. True, we accept it as a stock, but as a responsible country we must have it and understand it as an additional legal basis for the closure of the border, if necessary. And it's a law that protects human rights. Yeah, it protects human rights. Because we tell exactly what our abilities are. Or this is then the decision of the government, what our capabilities are, how many people Slovenia can take care of. Those who could have come to Slovenia or simply crossed Slovenia would not have been able to because, for example, the entrance to Austria at the northern border would have been closed. And by this we protect the human rights of migrants who come here, because we can take care of a limited number of people, we cannot take care of everyone who likes to come here; and we protect the human rights of our citizens and citizens. Inevitably, we cannot keep our eyes closed as to our abilities. Our capabilities are limited, humanitarian, security and economic, and I reiterate this. And I call on the government in this place to finally tell the public what our capabilities are. The countries in our neighborhood have reported this. I don't know why such a panic is about measures that will only be activated when it's necessary. And I hope that will never be necessary. That Slovenia will never face this experience in order to re-emerge the autumn and winter 2015 scenarios. Either way, these people coming up, whether they're refugees or migrants, are poor. But we do not make the country such that there will still be poor people in Slovenia. Another point mentioned was the conventions. Conventions are not possible and we cannot explain them ourselves in a way that, let's say, requires something from Slovenia that is virtually impossible. This is no way to interpret them as a responsible country. And if we do not accept this way of reasoning, it may also be a threat to the existence or functionality of the country itself, our human rights. And an unlimited number of migrants in Slovenia – not because we do not want to take care of them; we cannot, I repeat – would endanger the entire asylum system. What about human rights? Is this a responsible country? That's why this marriage is the pure wine we have to pour in our glass.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u251	Would anyone else like to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? I guess not. Dr. Milan Brglez, you have an opportunity to explain your voice on your own behalf. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u252	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today, there have been many speeches on security and human rights that have always been and will be understood and considered as inseparable values. As such, they are also defined in our constitution. I will vote against the adoption of this law myself, because, first of all, as a citizen of this country, as a Member and as President of the National Assembly, for the first time, I cannot vote in favour of a law which I believe is in violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and of an international treaty ratified by the Republic of Slovenia. Secondly, because I fear that this law legitimizes violations of the fundamental human rights enshrined in our Constitution. Thirdly, I am aware that the adoption of this law will have irreparable foreign and international consequences for the Republic of Slovenia and its interests in the international community, the Council of Europe and the European Union. Not for our citizens, nor for other security without human rights, nor will it be. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u253	Thank you very much, Dr. Brglez. Dr. Dragan Matić, you have the floor to explain your voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u254	Thank you for your word, chairman. I, too, personally believe that there is a lot to be done in legislation, so that it will be even more effective in empowering our repressive authorities in the repression of a potential migrant wave. However, like the President of the National Assembly, I believe that the dilemma or false choice between security on the one hand and freedom, respect for human rights and constitutionality on the other hand is a false dilemma. The legal and legal service has specifically stated what is wrong with this law. I will not refer to the views of the Council of Europe, nor will I refer to the opinion of international humanitarian organisations, nor to the opinion of NGOs. However, I believe that it is necessary to find such a solution that will be in accordance with the Slovenian Constitution and with the international obligations of our country. I am sorry that this effort has not been made sufficiently with regard to the present law. And, of course, against such a law, I must vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u255	Mr Matjaž Hanžek has an explanation for the vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u256	Thank you very much, President. More than ten years ago, in a similar situation, we gathered ombudsmen from almost the entire world, and that is when we decided, because of our imaginary security, that you give up your freedom and human rights, you also give up security. In addition to being a member of the Slovenian Parliament, I am also a member of the Parliament of the Council of Europe. For the Council of Europe is in Strasbourg, not in Brussels, which some are abusing because they know that Brussels has a negative connotation among people; they do not know anything about Strasbourg. The Council of Europe was established precisely to protect human rights. And the Slovenian National Assembly was written by the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, Jagland, to disagree with this law. He also wrote about this to the European Commissioner for Human Rights. I have worked with several European Commissioners for Human Rights in the past, I repeat, in Strasbourg; and these are not Brussels bureaucrats. This is again the next argument that I cannot agree to such an argument that humiliates experts in the world with various Brussels bureaucrats. Therefore, at least for many other reasons, I will clearly vote against it because I am convinced that human rights must be upheld. I'll vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u257	The explanation of vote in its own name is given by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u258	Thank you for your word, chairman. Milan basically explained everything to you. Hanzek gave you a footnote. I don't know what's funny here, gentlemen. [[…]] Comrade Mahnic, you couldn't have said anything before if it wasn't for the Arabs, by the way; but this time I'm going to say, you're not seen enough to know, I'm sorry. And you're the president of the Defence Committee. Mr Šircelj is also driving not only because of the DUTB to make holes in this country, but he is in the same Council of Europe, and he could explain it to you. I'm gonna stop here because I promised not to tell. At Milan, you have a number of doctors and doctors in the Modern Center Party, including someone who is very subversive. The stories start like this, first a teacher breaks a window, then some principal gets a little flat, then we follow a little constitution or we don't. Respected laughing gentlemen, I will not now insult the flora and the famous Slovenia, which is beautiful and varied; security, freedom and human rights are not some glass balls on the necklace that would be slightly up and down and here and there. And if it goes that way, I'm a little bit afraid that Pojbich and I will be running to Austria in due course. And I hope then the border is open. I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u259	Miha Kordiš has an explanation for the vote in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u260	Thank you for your word, chairman. I will vote against this law. I could moralise that I would vote against simply because I am human and that people in distress who are fleeing from war and economic devastation, partly blamed by the Slovenian political authority, should simply be helped because that is right. And I'm going to take a different approach, I'm a socialist, I'm a revolutionary socialist, and I believe in international labour solidarity. But I also believe in brotherhood among the peoples. Regardless of language and regardless of political belief, the different colors of the skin are generally well understood when people come together to face some of the challenges they face because they are making their lives difficult. And no matter how far apart they live. People don't point guns at each other with passion and hatred until they're in politics. For the same reasons, fences also grow between people and people. The borders close, fear reigns. And politicians don't even deserve the name of politicians, making their own profit out of it. But we're all at a loss together. So that Slovenia is our country, as well as those who seek temporary refuge with us, because our NATO bombs have also destroyed their countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u261	The explanation of the vote in its own name is given by Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u262	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I'd go on just where my buddy Duck has finished. Freedom and security and human rights, these are the foundations of the post-war Europe, and these are the foundations of the past 70 years probably the greatest prosperity in the world. With this law that you are enacting today, we are moving away from this civilizational standard, because instead of the “and” link you are inserting the “or” link, that is, freedom or security or human rights. And if, as a Member, I have to choose between these three, I will vote against the law that imposes such a choice on me. Secondly, I will vote against it because the law is unconstitutional and in breach of the set of international human rights treaties and conventions they have signed. This has been pointed out practically by everyone who knows anything about international law, including the President of this Parliament. Fourthly, I will vote against the law because it continues to be a bad practice of Slovenian politics, which is that every time a party, a government, a minister likes to show itself as a statesman, it finds itself in a state of emergency or, as has been said, in a normal state, creating emergency situations. And last time, I'm going to vote against it because I don't want to afford anyone who has to run away to run into closed borders. If I finish with the anecdotes. When Freud fled to London in 1938, he said: “Look at the historical progress we have made. Hundreds of years ago they would have burned me, and today they only burn my books." If I ran into a closed border, I probably wouldn't say that because I'd burn myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u263	Dr Mitja Horvat has an explanation for the vote in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u264	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable Minister with a team, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Until the last moment, I believed that what seemed a little funny and was poorly marked by Dr. Duck in the debate on the working body would be an argumented debate; I expected that all the dilemmas put forward in the debate would be answered by the Minister in public as much as possible and at today's meeting. I waited and waited, and the clock at the government showed 1:00. I insist that there is a need for a reasoned debate and that the right questions have been raised. I expected to come up with the right answers, I believed that it would be respected and taken into account, at least in an open process, in the efforts made by the President of the National Assembly to improve the text of the law. In the limited time they had, I did not have this debate. The debate was not free, it was limited. There were no arguments and no fundamental questions could be answered. Until the last minute, I believed it would happen; but it didn't. So, unfortunately, I must conclude with bitterness in my heart that, because of the lack of respect for the democratic process of this law, no matter what amendments have been adopted and which amendments have been ignored, I cannot accept. In particular, I am prevented by the attitude of the Slovenian Democratic Party when we explain the reasons for our decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u265	Mr Marijan Pojbič has an explanation of vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u266	Dear Mr. President. I will vote in favour of this law because I am referring to Slovenia. I will vote in favour of this law because I am referring to the Slovenian people. And I'm going to vote for this law because it's about Slovenian pensioners. And I'm going to vote for this law because it's about Slovenian workers. I will vote in favour of this law because I am concerned with the security and future of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u267	We're voting. What? I didn't see it because I don't see everyone. Please apply for an explanation. Mr Joseph Horvat has an explanation of his own voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u268	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Madam Minister, dear colleague and colleague! I'm an MP, I'm a physicist, I'm not a constitutional lawyer. What I've read, what I've studied, it's enough for me to support this marriage. I support this amendment of the Foreigners Act, which is the law on expensive domestics, on citizens and citizens of this country, which must also be protected, if we are to help those who flee from war and death. We don't have unlimited capacity. This state border law does not hermetically close from tomorrow. He's not closing it. In a way, otherwise, it will be strange to hear that the opposition Member must give the minister the recognition that she was driving between Scylla and the Caribbean. This law will not change, ladies and gentlemen, the souls and hearts of the Slovenian people. He'll stay humane. I'm getting close to Karitas' data on how many tons of goods, food, volunteers are generated by Karitas every year. Of course, also the Red Cross and other philanthropic organizations. We've already put the general through the Balkan War, as far as the loving reception of the refugees is concerned. And human rights, of course. We are not equal, we are not equal, but we are equal. But when we talk about values, this value is not in euros. Why not? Because the value of each of us in Slovenia and anywhere on the ground is infinite. Infinite. In this spirit, I also understand this law and support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u269	The explanation of the vote in its own name is mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u270	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I will vote against this law because I believe that today in this House it is not as much a refugee problem as it can be solved in a more democratic, other way. It's basically a democracy issue in this country. When I listened to your debates, some debates, I was actually terrified. I had a feeling that we were in Germany in 1933, only then they were on the other side of the Jew, but today they are refugees. And it's not really about refugees. In fact, freedom, security and human rights go hand in hand, that all three must be respected. The adoption of this law means non-freedom, it means a threat to us, to our families, to our future, and it constitutes a violation of human rights. It means that such a law cannot be adopted precisely because it is a Slovenian nation, so it is clear that I must vote against this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u271	Any other explanation for the voice? I find that no; that's why we're starting the vote. Let's vote. There are 71 Members and Members present, 47 votes in favour and 18 votes in favour. [[The vote was 47.]] [[There were 18 votes against.]] I take it the law has been passed. With regard to this item of the agenda, the Government shall propose to the Assembly that, pursuant to Article 153(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it adopt the following decision: The Legislative and Legal Service shall draw up official consolidated texts of the Law on Foreigners, the Law on International Protection and the Law on Temporary Protection of Displaced Persons. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 57 votes in favour and 4 votes in favour. [[The vote was 57.]] [[There was a vote against four.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Procedurally, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u272	Thank you. I probably don't have to explain why the United Left won't be participating in this session anymore. But if anyone else needs an explanation, to listen again to what Milan said, that's enough.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u273	Please, please! We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, this is the proposal for a law amending the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, the reduced procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending the Law on Marriage and Family Relations is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 15. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 15.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision, and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 7th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on Courts under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Courts is not suitable for further consideration. An explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats is given by Mr Jernej Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u274	We have a bank hole that was saved by taxpayers in 2013, we have invested billions of euros in Slovenian banks, but there is no one responsible for this crime. We have one condition in the country, and no one is responsible for it. In Nova Slovenije we call for responsibility that those who have robbed Slovenian banks also answer. For this reason, we have proposed a new Law on Courts, on the establishment of specialised courts, of specific departments that would be solely responsible for banking crime. We are persecuting, ladies and gentlemen, more effective banking crime. Where did we get the inspiration to table this bill? Where? In an investigation committee dealing with the detection of abuses in the banking system. One of the witnesses on this committee was also the President of the Special Prosecutor's Office, Mr Harij Furlan, who said: "Many bankers, bank criminals, would sit down, criminally and indemnityly answer if we had special courts." That's what he said publicly. Also in the decision you adopted, the decision of the commission of inquiry which ordered – it is proposed to set up specific departments, special courts for banking crime. And one other thing, the Ministry of Justice, on its website in November as an argument, for which Minister Klemenčič went to Iceland, argued that the way to convicted bank criminals is easier through special departments, courts for banking crime. And here is this key that New Slovenia has decided and proposed this amendment to the Law on Courts. Because taxpayers are tired of funding banks in billions of euros over time. On the other hand, no banker's ever been convicted before, no one. There are only two people who are wrongly convicted, the other three who are legally convicted are not bankers; they are the ones who received the money. If we want to follow what the government says alone, as this national assembly says through the decision of the commission of inquiry, and if we follow what you have voted on, then there is nothing left to do but pass the law on the courts proposed by Nova Slovenija; and those responsible for the bank hole will be brought to justice. Not only before the right to be held liable for this bank hole in criminal and indemnity.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u275	Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? No, no, no. Mr Joseph Horvat has an explanation of his own voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u276	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will vote against the conclusion that the Law on Courts prepared by Nova Slovenije is not suitable for further consideration. Why? On 22 November last year, according to about two months ago, this National Assembly voted on the conclusion of the Interim Report on Parliamentary Inquiry into Factor Banka, d.d., Probanko, d.d., and Banka Slovenije; which included, inter alia, the text, I quote: "The National Assembly, in accordance with the essential findings of the parliamentary inquiry, proposes to the Government that it provide legal and materially for the establishment of a specialised court for the prosecution of banking crime within the framework of the organisation of the judiciary." At the time, there were 74 votes in favour of this decision, including my vote. At that time, I voted by conscience and full consciousness. And now New Slovenia has come with a solution that brings this decision to fruition. And this time I'm voting on my conscience and full consciousness again. That is why I am voting against the proposal to conclude that the law is not suitable for further consideration; because anything else would be a vote by conscience or not by conscience.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u277	We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 20. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 20.]] I note that the decision has been taken by the National Assembly and that the legislative procedure for the bill has therefore been completed. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Prosecutions under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 18. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 18.]] I note that the decision has been taken by the National Assembly and that the legislative procedure for the bill has therefore been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Aid for the Rescue and Restructuring of Economic Companies and Cooperatives in difficulty under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to amendments adopted in the second reading at the home work body and at the meeting of the National Assembly, the proposal for a law would be inconsistent. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 1. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft law on pricing of petroleum derivatives under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on pricing of petroleum derivatives is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, with 57 votes against 2. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision, and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 26th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m.
