ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I am opening the 44th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popot, Mrs Ludmila Novak from 12 a.m. to 12 p.m., Mrs Nada Brinovšek, Mrs Janja Sluga, Dr Simona Kustec Lipicer, Mrs Vesna Grošelj Kosnik, Mrs Erika Dekleva until 15.15 p.m., Mrs Violeta Tomić, Mrs Suzanne Leap Šimenko from 13 a.m., Dr. Milan Brglez from 15 a.m., Dr. Vinko Gorenak, Mr. Peter Wilfan, Mr. Ljubo Žnidar, Mr. Zvonko Lah from 18 a.m.m. Matthew Tonin from 18:00 on, Mr. Joseph Horvat, Mr. Jan Škoberne, Mr. Franz Ly, Mr. Branko Zorman, mag. Branislav Rajić, Mr Sasa Tabakovic from 10 a.m. to 15 p.m., Dr. Matej T. Vatovec from 12 a.m. on, Dr. Franc Trček by 11 a.m., Miha Kordiš from 11 a.m., Mr Tomaž Lisec, Mr Franz Breznik, Mr Simon Zajc from 12 a.m. to 13 p.m. and Mr Janez Janša. I've invited government representatives to the meeting. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 44th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received your draft agenda on Tuesday 30 May 2017, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda. I propose to the National Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you received by reference. We're moving on to decision-making. Is she working on the card now? Okay, it's working. Please check the functioning of the voting devices. Is everything okay? We're voting. What? It's not working, I'm sorry, I'm breaking up. Make sure they're working again. Lights to all? Is he okay or not?Oh, my God! Put it out again. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Is it working now? No, no, no. Okay, let's get technical help. No, let's do it again. Let's try. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 56 votes in favour, all present, none against. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda of the 44th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, this is the proposal that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia recommended in connection with the environmental disaster that caused the fire in the chemical company, D. O. O. He's not here because he's stuck in a traffic jam, so I'm giving him a 15-minute break.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u2	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm continuing with the adjourned meeting of the choir. We remained on the 1st item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Recommendation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia regarding the environmental disaster caused by the fire in Kemis d. o. o. The proposal for a recommendation was tabled by a group of 25 Members and Members with Mr Jozet Tanke, the first to be signed. With regard to this proposal, the group of 19 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the State Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer to Mr Daniel Krivac.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u3	Thank you for your word, Madam President. First of all, a sincere apology from my fellow Members and colleagues for having to wait and thank the President for understanding that he has interrupted the meeting. Also a nice greeting to the representatives of the ministries with the minister in charge. Maybe for the introduction; we can see that accidents happen all the time, and if we are ready and we know how to react, this is also done elegantly, so that the President has taken this into account. Otherwise, it's a roadblock on the mountain highway. I would like to point out that, in addition to our proposal, this reference and the request for a debate in the National Assembly on this issue have also been signed by colleagues from the Group of Non-Aligned Members, Comrade Roberto Battelli and colleague Andrej Cuz. We all probably agree that this problem of this accident in the chemical factory in Vrhnika was very, I would say, media-exposed, and, on the other hand, because of some way of inefficient behaviour, it was also problematic for most of the people who accompanied it, as well as for us Members who are somehow obliged to point out when some things are not going in the right direction. We discussed this in the first days, both coalition and opposition Members, and it was a united opinion that something must be done in this direction. Given that the convening of our meeting was probably also one in this mosaic of all these measures that have taken place below, and that there was also some pressure on the decision makers to improve, we have in some way achieved our goal, which we have been pursuing with the reference to this meeting. A lot has changed, especially in the area of informing the population and other nearby areas, groups have formed and a coordinator has been appointed for all activities that must take place following such an accident as has happened in the case of Kemis. As I said, from this point of view, our call has reached its mark. Even at local level, after our call was made, things began to unfold significantly faster — from meetings at municipal level to all other activities that are important for preventing further damage, especially to the population and nature in the vicinity of Kemis. The reasons for the emergency meeting are likely to be clear to us – the fire in the chemical waste company Kemis, which erupted on May 15th at around 8:00 p.m. We've all probably been monitoring this, maybe some data. There were 256 firefighters from surrounding fire companies and companies and brigades from Ljubljana and Kranj. The fire was able to put out fires in that main section by 24:00. There were also some measures. Due to the risk of fire and smoke spreading, 11 people were evacuated from residential homes in the immediate vicinity of the company. In view of the fact that there were more detonations and each sighting of a flame rising over a hundred metres into the air, this was in some ways a necessary measure, since no one knew whether the fire would be limited or whether it could be limited for some time. At the time of the fire, it was clear that pollution was causing, for soot falling on the courtyards of houses, orchards, fields and gardens and playgrounds and schools caused pollution at that time. Only the work was coordinated by the Civil Protection Command of Vrhnika. I think that in the first activities, both civil protection and firefighters were successful and the case was done in a coordinated manner enough that there were no major problems. The assessment of the condition of the fire extinguishers after intervention was such that a great deal of this equipment has been destroyed and that this part will probably need to be taken care of further. About 40% of fire extinguishers and firefighting equipment were destroyed in three firefighter companies, which are the main and most affected by the attack, and equipment from firefighting companies from other municipalities that helped to put out firefighters and firefighters involved in the intervention was destroyed, resulting in 226 000 euros of damage. This clearly does not include the damage caused by the equipment of professional fire brigades from Ljubljana and Kranj. I state this because it is necessary to know that firefighters must quickly replace this equipment, because no one knows when the next event will happen and in this case the equipment destroyed must be replaced as soon as possible. In this first part, in particular, those who have coordinated basic activities, I am talking about Civil Protection and Fire Units, provided quite good information for nationals, citizens and all of these measures have been largely taken into account and respected. In addition, there has been conflicting and incomplete information on the action itself and also on the implementation of further activities. It is already apparent from the first data that there is a high likelihood that in this fire there has also been a burning of dangerous substances, which also cause emissions of substances which are dangerous, harmful to the environment, and especially to humans, at a time when the intervention was somehow completed, that the population remained largely without some clear instructions and that there were also practical cross-references. At first, many things were banned, and she warned that they had to follow the instructions of the Civil Protection Headquarters, and after almost three days, there were no more instructions. And to avoid such, I would say that the problems that arise after the interventions are also addressed by this meeting, our warnings in the recommendations proposed go in this direction too. In Slovenia, very well developed action is at the most urgent moment, it is said to be individual intervention, but it is not well developed what happens when we stop the intervention before taking over certain services, which are otherwise set up for this continuation in some way to remedy and act after a natural disaster as well as any other accident. It has also been shown that there is no document at the level of the country which would operationally upgrade the basic documents imposing intervention on Civil Protection as such; the following is a vacuum and it is necessary to examine whether something needs to be changed within the legislation or if it is sufficient for the Government to define it by any regulation and guidance. In view of the fact that on 30 May, according to 15 days after the accident, the Government reacted, however, to the appointment of the coordinator, who is now concerned that all the measures are coordinated, so that the information is provided in concrete terms, it is possible to take this one step in the right direction, and we would also like to draw attention to this meeting. There have been many unknowns and uncertainties, as well as leaks in terms of providing true information on both air, water and land analyses. To some extent, this is still happening. People are not allowed to release the Kemis factory or its management, which practically did not want to serve in the initial phase with any information, because of initial information, and in particular the failure to provide information by the competent institutions, nor must they release the Kemis factory or their management, which did not wish to serve in the initial phase with any information, with the excuse that all documents relevant to the light of what was deposited and possibly burned have been burned in this fire. [[…]] Given that such a company is obliged to store all this information in a secure location, this is more an excuse than a fact and certain things need to be changed in this direction. When we talk about this non-information or half-information; in the initial phase there was talk about the fact that the Tojnica River is also polluted but not to a large extent, we later saw that it was virtually completely destroyed and dead, a stream as such. And when people compared this information, it's problematic. If you remember, at the beginning there were also talks about this after a few days when people were returning to locations and also children to schools and kindergartens, that there was no ban on playing games and sandboxes and so on, and in fact within a few days banning movement in the open, using these games, mandatory washing and so on. So, in the future, to such inaccuracies that I don't say anything worse, it can't actually come. And to address all these inconsistencies, the shortcomings are also addressed by our recommendations, which are mainly related to the fact that information in this case was poor or nothing and communication, which in such a case is for, I would say, the one that is most important in the circle of an accident, has in practice been completely suppressed. This was also agreed by the President of the Government, who, as I said, made clear when the pressures were too great and when there was also a public discussion of the non-coordination of individual services, however, determined the coordinator, but this, as I said, is significantly too late and a little more needs to be done in this area. The biggest problem, which will be how to restore the confidence of all these citizens, the people who are in the immediate vicinity and also the wider of these disasters, will be how to convince them that the new measurements they are making are right to believe. Here the institutions and the Government have one great task. As regards whether these sites are appropriate or not, we have also proposed recommendations in this direction that certain things should be re-examined and, in the case of Kemis, also in the case of other undertakings and establishments which may cause major pollution. Just this morning, if you were listening, there was once again a big fire in the Ljutomer, in the storage room of candles and some plastic waste. Apparently, these accidents are becoming more common. As a result, we need to consider our recommendations and possibly some further recommendations to be supplemented and added. The debate on the committee we held was quite constructive. We have just identified all these shortcomings that have happened. The key, as I said, is information, because each service is likely to be trained for itself, but without some serious coordination such accidents cannot be managed, and in particular not to reduce the consequences of such a case. We've somehow accepted three recommendations on the committee. He added one recommendation to the proposal made by his colleague Möderndorfer. However, we are proposing and will continue to submit two additional amendments, two amendments to our fourth and fifth recommendations, because, as I said, given the facts in Slovenia as regards the frequency of fires that have been standing recently, it is also necessary to actually consider our recommendation to verify the authorisations of individual companies that have a major impact on nature and the environment in the event of an emergency, and also to verify and possibly supplement spatial legislation to place similar entities, such as Kemis, in space. In the case of Kemis, we all find that there is a settlement, there is a watercourse, and according to the Director's information that fires have been very common, we cannot rule out that the matter is repeated. Therefore, since we may at any time experience a similar event in a place where we live, we do well to support these recommendations with some sense.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u4	The proposal for a recommendation was addressed by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u5	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space shall be held at its 55th emergency meeting, on 1. 6. 2017 as a parent working body, the Proposal for a Recommendation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia concerning the environmental disaster caused by the fire in Kemis d.o.o., submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first signed Jože Tank. In the supplementary explanation, the applicant said that their main purpose was to try to find solutions to prevent similar environmental disasters, as we witnessed in the fire in Kemis, d.o.o., Vrhnika. The proposal therefore calls on the Government, without undue delay, to approach the problem which has proven to be a problem in its entirety in the event of the fire mentioned above. He pointed out that in this fire, more than once, we have shown that we are poorly prepared for such events in Slovenia, which rightly causes discomfort in people. Several days after the fire in the company, the public still had no answers to the question of what was burning, what was the damage on the surrounding crops and groundwater, and in particular how people living near the company should act after the fire. Despite the multitude of safety and fire regulations that we have adopted and are supposed to prevent such events, there has been a fire in the company that has stored thousands of 500 tonnes of severely hazardous waste, and almost 14 days after the fire there are still no satisfactory answers to the concerns of the people concerned. With regard to the recommendations, the Legislative and Legal Service drew attention in particular to the inappropriate combination of legal bases in the preamble of the proposal for a recommendation relating to two types of acts of the National Assembly. It also pointed out the inappropriate expression of environmental disaster, because it is not a matter of marriage and I do not make clear what it involves or what activities in this regard are imposed on the competent authorities. The legislative and legal service has also pointed out that there is still confusion or ambiguity in the recommendation regarding the appropriateness of the legislation in force, where it is not clear what criterion should be applied in this regard, thus linking the issue of one of the articles of the Recommendation. Ms Irena Majcen, Minister for Environment and Space, explained that the Government does not oppose the recommendations proposed under points 1, 2 and 3, but opposes points 4 and 5. With regard to point 4 of the order for the Ministry of Environment to decide to examine the possibilities for the renewal of the environmental protection authorisation procedure, it pointed out that the withdrawal of the environmental protection permit is provided for in Article 80 of the Environmental Protection Act, which lists the cases where this can be withdrawn and provides for the renewal of the procedure provided for in Article 260 of the General Administrative Procedure Act, where the conditions for the initiation of the renewal procedure are not met for Kemis after the official duty. With regard to point 5, it pointed out that spatial planning, which is under the original jurisdiction of the municipalities, does not mean that the facility with potential major environmental impacts is only left to the planning of the municipality, since the State complies with the applicable public interest law, in particular in the work relating to environmental protection. It does so in the process of preparing municipal spatial acts through the participation of space regulators and through a comprehensive environmental impact assessment process. In addition, a number of participants at the meeting of the parent working body added their views on fire and on how to deal with the consequences. Among others, the Director of Kemis, the Civil Protection Commander, the representative of the Natural and Other Disaster Protection Inspectorate, the Commissioner of the Civil Initiative Sinja Gorica and others, which is described in more detail in the written part of the report. After a lengthy discussion, Members and Members of Parliament have quite uniformly assessed that in the event of a fire in Kemis, there are several shortcomings in the conduct of certain competent services. In doing so, they identified information to the public about the event as one of the key problems, in particular its consequences. After discussion, the Committee adopted the amendment of the SDS Group's amendment to the preamble and also adopted its amendments to the title, on 1, 3, 4 and 5. He then voted on all the parts and preamble of the proposal together and also adopted it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u6	I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of the Environment and the premises of Mrs Irena Majcen for an introductory explanation of the opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u7	Dear President of the National Assembly, Dr. Milan Brglez, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I give the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on individual recommendations proposed. Recommendation No 1: »The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia recommends that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in the event of an environmental disaster caused by a fire in Kemis d. o. o., present to the public, as soon as possible, a comprehensive analysis of environmental measurements and provide an appropriate explanation of the data identified, which is relevant to the health and safety of the inhabitants of Vrhnika and the environment.” The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not oppose the recommendation. In doing so, it should be pointed out that there is no comprehensive analysis of environmental measurements at this time, as the measurements and sampling carried out by the National Institute for Public Health, the Directorate for Food Safety, Veterinary and Plant Protection and the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Environment are still being carried out on the ground. All partial results were forwarded to the public and to all competent institutions which could use the data to complement their activities and prepare opinions. On 30 May, a special group meeting was convened, attended by representatives of all the institutions involved. The coordinator of this group was appointed as well as agreed further coordinated actions by all institutions, including public communication. Recommendation No 2: »The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia recommends that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia instruct the competent authorities to monitor the situation in the affected area – air, water, land – for at least 6 months after the fire and findings from the knowledge of the Slovenian public.” The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not oppose the recommendation. Monitoring of the state of the environment in the affected area shall be carried out from the very beginning of the event. The current measurement of sampling is carried out by several institutions: the National Institute for Public Health, the Directorate for Food Safety, Veterinary and Plant Protection and the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Environment. The Coordination Group, which coordinates their activities, will also implement all necessary measures in relation to the monitoring of the environmental situation in the affected area, which will contribute to the remediation of the affected area, as reported by the public or residents of Vrhnika and its surroundings so far. The long-term plan for further monitoring of the affected area will relate to those areas where or will the analysis show that the situation is inadequate. Recommendation No 3.: »The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia recommends that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in the event of an environmental disaster in Vrhnika, require the competent supervisory institutions to prepare a report on the implementation of the supervision of compliance with the safety and fire regulations in Kemis d.o.o. and the findings of the National Assembly within 30 days of the publication of the recommendation in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia.« The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not oppose the recommendation. Two supervisory institutions were present in the field after the event. The Environmental and Space Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia was informed of that event on Kemis. 5. 2017 at 7.30 p.m. by the information centre. The inspectorate is immediately upon completion of the criminal investigation, that's 19. 5. 2017 in the case of the manager of the Kemis d.o.o., carried out an exceptional environmental inspection in the event of an environmental accident. On the basis of the findings of the inspection, it is 26. 5. the inspectorate issued an oral decision on the protection of human life and health that the debtor, Kemis d.o.o., should cease to operate in respect of the detected infringements of the environmental permit, which constitute a threat to people and the environment, except in the part of the repair of the area of the device. The inspection procedure has not yet been completed. On the basis of the findings, a report on the findings on the compliance of the device with the conditions set out in the environmental authorisation and the necessary follow-up will be drawn up. In the field of protection and rescue, fire protection and protection against drowning, the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia is responsible for the protection of natural and other disasters. Kemis, d.o.o., engaged in the collection and disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous wastes, is required in accordance with legislation to produce a risk assessment and a plan for protection and resolution. No infringements were detected during the 2010 inspection and no inspection measures were imposed on the company and the inspection procedure stopped. In addition to regular inspection tasks, inspectors of the Department of Natural and Other Disaster Protection shall also participate in interventions where they provide professional assistance to competent intervention managers and civil protection headquarters. Even in the event of a fire at Kemis, d.o.o., was 15. 5. The presence of an inspector of the Department of Natural and Other Disaster Protection, who monitored the course of the intervention, found that a large number of fire brigades were involved, that a decontamination trailer had been brought from Kranj, that emergency medical care units were present, support service was activated, and civil protection headquarters of Vrhnika Municipality were also activated. The first assessment of the on-call inspector at the site of the accident was that firefighters and other security and rescue forces cooperated well with each other and that the intervention was conducted very effectively and that the operation of all intervention services was extremely self-sacrificing. On the basis of an on-call inspector's report, they decided, in accordance with established practice after each major fire, at the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia to protect against natural and other disasters, to carry out a comprehensive emergency inspection in the field of protection against natural and other disasters. Surveillance has begun on the 29th. 5. The inspectorate tried to obtain the necessary documentation for carrying out emergency control immediately after the fire from Kemis d.o.o., but the company said that it was burned in a fire, both physically and electronically. On the basis of that fact, they referred to the Municipality of Vrhnika for certain information, which, in accordance with the applicable rules, is obliged to transmit certain documents. Thus they have already obtained the latest threat assessment for Kemis d.o.o. and also the updated plan for protection and rescue of Kemis d.o.o. As could be found by reviewing the documentation mentioned above, both documents were by letter from Kemis d. o. o. dated 28. 1. 2015 in writing to the municipality of Vrhnika, the Gasilski link Vrhnika, the Gasilski brigade Ljubljana and the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Protection and Rescue. At the time of the review of both documents, it was found that they were made in accordance with the applicable rules and that the final assessment would be carried out under that exceptional inspection, which will be the subject of a report. Fourth recommendation: »The National Council of the Republic of Slovenia recommends that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, by decision, order the Ministry of Environment and Space to examine the possibility of renewal of the environmental protection permit procedure or of repealing the environmental protection permit for Kemis d.o.o. and in the light of recent events also to examine the environmental permits of all business entities in Slovenia that carry out an activity that can lead to environmental pollution of a larger scale and is dangerous to human health and are located in the vicinity of the populated areas and protected natural environments, and to report in writing within 30 days of the publication of the recommendation in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia shall be informed.« The Government of the Republic of Slovenia opposes the recommendation. Environmental protection authorisation for Kemis of 7. 6. It was issued in 2013 together with an environmental consensus as an IED authorisation. To date, twice as many changes have been made due to changes made by the party due to new business procedures. The amendments to the ODS added measures to prevent and control the emergency situation in the operation of the device and to reduce its consequences, as well as measures to prevent accidents and their consequences on the basis of the fifth and seventh indents of Article 24(5) of the Regulation on the type of activities and installations which may lead to pollution of the environment of a larger scale and on the basis of data in the application — amendment by official duty in order to comply with the rules. The withdrawal of an environmental authorisation shall be provided for in Article 80 of the Environmental Protection Act, which shall specify the cases where an environmental authorisation may be withdrawn. In the case of Kemis, the second paragraph provides that an environmental authorisation may be withdrawn on a proposal from the competent inspector if the operator fails to comply with its regulatory decision to harmonise the operation of the plant within a certain period of time with the conditions of the environmental authorisation. The renewal of the procedure is provided for in Article 260 of the General Administrative Procedure Act. As regards the environmental authorisation for Kemis, the conditions for initiating the procedure for renewal under official duty are not met. With regard to the verification of the IED of environmental permits, the Environmental Agency of the Republic of Slovenia will geolocation and presentation of locations in the Atlas of the Environment as a spatial layer of the IED device for all installations. This will provide spatial planners with additional information to help place new settlements or residential areas near these facilities. With regard to existing installations already placed in space, we believe that a more detailed analysis would not contribute to improvements. Fifth Recommendation: »The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia recommends that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia require the Ministry of Environment and Space to prepare a report on the appropriateness of the applicable legislation governing the placing in the premises and the issuing of environmental consents for business entities carrying out activities that may cause environmental pollution of a greater extent, which is dangerous to human health and a communication made known to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia within 30 days of the publication of the recommendation in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. The report should also contain measures to address identified legislative shortcomings in this area." The Government of the Republic of Slovenia opposes the recommendation. Placement in the premises, including the determination of the intended use of the premises, is the subject of spatial planning, which is under the original jurisdiction of the municipalities. The latter does not mean that a facility with potentially major environmental impacts is left exclusively in the planning of the municipality, since the State, in accordance with the applicable legislation, is the guardian of public interest, the gold in the work relating to the protection of the environment, is in the process of preparing municipal spatial acts with the participation of environmental regulators and through a comprehensive environmental impact assessment process. The environmental impact assessment shall also be carried out at the level of specific intervention to the premises, subject to the issuing of environmental consent, where necessary, and the fulfilment of the conditions for the operation of the facility, as well as the issuing of an environmental protection authorisation. In addition, it is worth stressing the fact that any facilities or areas that meet the conditions for classification among environmental risk facilities are subject to even stricter criteria than other environmental impact facilities or facilities with the expected emissions into the environment, in accordance with the Seves Directive. From this point of view, legislation has also regulated the implementation of the directive into legislation, specifically the Environmental Protection Act and its sub-legislative acts. The proposal for a new Law on the regulation of space, however, highlights even more explicitly the obligation to comply with stricter requirements in line with the Seves Directive in spatial planning at local level. From this point of view, the legislation governing placement has regulated the necessary instruments protecting public interest and will certainly need to be re-examined in recent events to ensure that it can be improved. In view of the fact that it was mentioned and unfortunately there was a fire again at the company Ekopolska in Ljutomer, I can say that the concessionaire and the operator of the service of VGP Drava Ptuj is already in contact with the civil protection headquarters. The river Ščavnica is contaminated with foams and paraffins and concrete measures are already being implemented on the ground. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u8	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Bojan Podkoršek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u9	Honourable President of the National Assembly, esteemed Minister, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, citizens and citizens, especially well-known citizens and citizens of Vrhnika Municipality! Let me present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group on the environmental disaster caused by the fire at Kemis in Vrhnika. Surely we are witnessing the biggest environmental disaster of this kind in the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, first of all, to mention that as far as the intervention of this accident is concerned, they did their job with the distinction of firefighters who do this most of the time on a voluntary basis, and I am sure that in this case they did not know in most cases what awaits them behind the walls of this company in which this fire occurred. The fact is also that information and coordination after the accident were very bad all the time, for which the Ministry of the Environment is responsible, of course with all services in the Republic of Slovenia. This fact and conviction of the Slovenian Democratic Party were also confirmed by the President of the Government two days ago when he visited Vrhnika Municipality. The competent state institutions have been underactive and, above all, unrelated. There was no information office. To a large extent, people were looking for questions about plant health and protection. Many questions have not been answered, and they have been left in doubt, which is wrong and irresponsible. All the information and clear instructions were expected by the inhabitants of Vrhnika on the first day after the fire, but they were not received. There was no Civil Protection Coordinator. Let me mention that, of course, even after the convening of this extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia only appointed the President of the Government after 14 days to coordinate all services after this fire. People have not received clear instructions on vegetables or contain harmful substances. The questions regarding the findings of the fire inspector are, of course, not yet clarified. How and why was there a fire in the company? Did Kemis violate fire regulations and take fire safety too lightly? The fact is, three weeks after the fire, it is found that there is a poor crisis management of the accident. This is confirmed 2 days ago by the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. People don't know if it's possible to eat vegetables and animal feed outside the circle that was set. The hazardous waste collected in the company is now being stockpiled in many companies and institutions. That's what we've been alerting you to. This is certainly a problem that will undoubtedly have to be solved, of course in the area of this company, in the area of Vrhnika, and especially in the case of future disasters. The government has taken too long to take measures to normalise the situation. This also applies to a mobile team that sends plant protection experts to the field three weeks after the fire. Trust in all institutions has fallen. Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Minister, there are many institutions in the Republic of Slovenia that are, of course, paid and responsible for such areas. Here it has been shown that they have not done their homework, and above all they have proved to be inconsistent in this area. It is essential to read again the environmental standards and the environmental authorisation of Kemis. Of course, we have already heard from the Minister on the recent Committee on Infrastructure that this is not necessary, but we do not see any obstacles in the Slovenian Democratic Party because such an accident has occurred so that this is not checked again. The fact is, as far as intervention is concerned, the services, especially the firefighters here, have done this with all the excellence. However, after the intervention, institutions in charge of various areas have been denied. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will certainly support all the recommendations that go to the protection of this area, where this fire has taken place, in order to certainly protect all citizens and citizens of Vrhnika, especially those who live directly with this company. And of course, in this week it has also turned out that we will not be able to avoid such accidents – there have been two more, we have heard that even today one – so let this be a clear lesson and clearly warn all institutions that such disasters must surely be better prepared. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, I repeat, we will support all the recommendations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u10	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr. Franc Jurša has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u11	President, thank you for your word. A nice greeting is given to ministers and co-workers, as well as to the Secretary of State with the co-workers. I am convinced that the proposer of today's meeting and debate has, of course, had a good purpose and that this is also followed by a good purpose for all of us, who will be discussing that, above all, we have the potential to influence the actual conduct of the activity during the fire – if it occurs – and it has followed it in such a way that there will be as little damage as possible. You know, today, right in my town of Ljutomer, actually, at 9:20 last night, there was a big fire where candles, plastics, paraffins at 2,000 yards of warehouse were burning. Whether this is any connection is difficult to say, but still, society as a whole will have to pay more attention to these matters. Almost four weeks ago, this thing was happening in Kemis. It's a hazardous waste dump. After a few powerful explosions, high and extensive flames and dense black smokes, warnings appeared to the local population that they should stay at home behind closed windows, be extremely careful. The following day, after the first analysis, the mobile ELME laboratory gave hope that it was not worse, and after the intervention of the Ministry of Environment and Space and Services under its auspices, the following investigations showed that it was not as innocent as it was supposed to be in the first phase. Why am I describing a story you probably all know? This is because I point to the main problem in connection with the fire in Kemis, which has also been shown by the analysis of the intervention of the competent services in the event of this fire. This is a lack of communication, contradictory information, uncoordinated information of the local population. The following deficiency, as demonstrated by the analysis already mentioned, is the coordination of the activities of the post-fire professional services and the uncertainty of who is responsible for informing the public. According to the assessment of our parliamentary group, we can add to this the work of state laboratories, as the analysis of some samples has not yet been completed today. This means that people living near the company still do not know how to protect their children’s health and health. Similar warnings on the lack of, slow and uncoordinated information to the public were also issued at the urgent meeting of the Committee of the National Council for Infrastructure, Environment and Space. All of us who have ever dealt with the area of protection and rescue know three rules. And that, the first rule, is clear and timely communication. Second of all, information. And thirdly, re-awareness of the population about the events in the fire. With accurate and timely information, you can also avoid the occurrence of people who take advantage of the disaster that took place in Kemis to promote themselves, to spread panic and conspiracy theories that ultimately bring no benefit. At that meeting of the Committee, we heard a warning, which we are also joining in our parliamentary group. This is that the services that should react to such an accident and coordinate the overall action have not done their job as expected. That is why we are asked questions or questions that we want and need to get answers through today's debate. As I know, and as a whole, our Group of Members, for each level of disaster, we have worked out plans. Here I am referring to the level of the factory where the accident was, then to the level of the local community, this is the municipality, then at the regional level and also at the state level. We are now interested in whether all these services at all these levels have actually done everything possible to make action as effective as possible. After everything that's happened, we can tell it wasn't like that. In the parliamentary group, we believe that in the case of Kemis, we have also received a lesson that in certain cases technology cannot replace man, because if technology were to help and control man in Kemis, it might have put out the fire itself before the firefighters came to the factory. But this accident also showed that in our country we do not really know exactly what we want. As an example, I should first point out the operation of inspection services. When these are strict and conscientious, they are perceived to be bureaucrats, lifeless and similar. Then an accident like this happens, and of course we are talking about how they have not done their tasks. Dangerous waste is the next area where we don't know exactly what we want. On the one hand, their numbers are increasing daily, but no one would have them in their field. The fact is, we need companies like Kemis, but the neighbors should. The Chamber of Commerce has already pointed out that hazardous waste is being stockpiled at the premises of companies and, of course, that the firm of Kidrič in Ptuj, which performs a similar undesirable activity as Kemis, has limited capacity. Therefore, there is a real and very dangerous possibility that waste will start to accumulate without control in the yard of the workshop. The next thing we don't know if we want them are factories. We all want the new jobs that they bring, but we do not want the dirt and waste that the factory usually produces, even if it is production, they create.In the Group of Members, we hope that we have all learned from the case of Kemis enough that we will not be confused again in the event of a new case, without adequate information, that the relevant services will react quickly and can communicate with each other and with the public. Let me conclude the presentation of our Group's position by expressing my support for the proposed recommendation.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u12	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matjaž Germany.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. President, and a very nice greeting to everyone. Before we fall into the whirlpool of political accounts and flat-rate judgments, who is to blame and who is not to blame for everything that happened after the fire at the Kemis factory in Vrhnika, we must be aware of something – that we are likely to be seen by a large number of concerned Vrhničans and Vrhničenkos and other residents. They probably do not expect, through today's debate, to receive answers to a number of questions concerning the level of pollution, health risks and consequences for their lives. However, in view of the scale and consequences of the fire, they have the right to expect maturity and, above all, the intention to look carefully at how this national assembly, for the first time, can help to solve the communication and organisational problems of the competent services, which will help to establish effective communication channels as soon as possible, thereby providing clear information on the consequences and impact of these on the lives of the inhabitants, and for the second time to take decisive steps to establish a crisis management model in the event of such accidents, in particular as regards coordination between individual services, so that they can clearly and unequivocally communicate to people what is happening and what is being done to them. Therefore, this meeting does not have to turn out to be a petrol-fueled concern of people who rightly demand a response. I stress this in particular because we cannot pass the feeling, even in the light of the discussions on the home committee, that the disaster of the people and the fire in Kemis is, for some, just another appropriate policy area for inter-party accounting. I therefore recommend that some people today think that we are one year before the elections and prefer to realize that the inhabitants of Vrhnika and the surrounding areas today do not hope to let their children play on the lawn in front of the house, that they do not hope to eat home-grown vegetables, that they are afraid of health and consequences that may not be visible today or tomorrow, but that when such a call to the National Assembly will not occur and when our words are written somewhere after the magnetograms and people will deal with so much more important things and concerns. Let's do what's right, then. In spite of the confusion caused by the fire, let us focus the debate on a well-intentioned commitment that we are trying to mitigate. So there is no need for any more excitement today, and even less for the insurrection of uncertainty. It is also right in this place to thank those who have prevented this disaster from taking on even greater consequences – firefighters, paramedics and other medical personnel, civil protection, all those who have helped when politics has only been screened to monitor what is going on, and today politics is very clear of what was wrong and who is responsible. If anything, we can all agree that the primary system of protection and rescue in Slovenia works well. However, this event also showed that luckily we do not have much experience with environmental accidents, whether it is a fire or a stomach. Just today, like my colleagues before me, we have witnessed the news of a large-scale fire in Ljutomer, which we hope will not have major consequences. Therefore, we must not give in to apathy, since it does not happen many times, but we must make every effort to be prepared in the event of accidents of such magnitude as the fire in Kemis. And the first step to this is to be aware of the shortcomings, even in this accident in Kemis. Firstly, we need to improve the information and information systems of people, because fear is therefore linked to uncertainty and the fear of the surrounding population is certainly not the right solution. And secondly, that many political ideas are often hidden under the cover of some kind of debirocratisation in similar investments, which consequently worsen environmental standards, so perhaps they are not a step in the right direction, even if we want to avoid such disasters in the future. However, of course, we cannot blind ourselves to the fact that we do not need similar companies for the processing of hazardous waste in Slovenia, because we all know that this is not the case. We will follow the competent parliamentary committee and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the recommendations of the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u14	The word is given by the Joint Left Group, for her Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u15	Thank you for your word, chairman. Poor responses from competent institutions, poor communication with the public and poor fire safety in the company itself. These or those three weeks after the fire in Kemis were the most exposed subjects, but in fact, the United Left believes they are the least problematic part of the whole story. After the battle, it is only possible to be a general and explain what could be better, how we could better inform the public more effectively, how this or that service should react — the agency, the institution — how we should turn around and so on. But none of these claims and arguments address the fundamental problem of low environmental standards, which was well lit by the fire in Kemis. We're talking about lowering environmental protection standards at the expense of making profits of dirty capital. We're talking about shifting the burden of environmental recovery from the cause to the society as a whole. The Environmental Protection Act and other environmental regulations have been systematically exposed for years to radiation under the cover of removal of administrative barriers. Then today, among others, we are listening to the proposaler in his conclusions on how such disasters are becoming more common. Of course, they are becoming more common every few years when you re-write the Environmental Protection Act, where you lower environmental standards for one more step. Regardless of which party the political regime is involved in at all. Thus, from liberal left-wing parties to clients on my right, everything is united in the view that environmental standards are indeed bureaucratic administrative obstacles and that they must be reduced, eliminated, removed in the name of promoting the economy. Then something happens, and we all listen to the horrified findings of how some toxic waste plant can stand in the middle of an urban environment. Very simple, ladies and gentlemen, so you let them. Despite all the blows that he has been and is still exposed to the Environmental Protection Act, Article 9 of the Environmental Protection Act still sets out clearly and unequivocally the principle of the responsibilities of the originator. The cause of the environmental accident shall be responsible for the removal of the source of excessive environmental burden and its consequences, as well as for the prevention and recovery of environmental damage. Moreover, in the event of an accident, he is also responsible for covering the costs of all the protection and rescue measures that arise in this case. Well, from statements made by the Minister of the Environment and Space Irena Majcen and Prime Minister Miro Cerar – not one day or two, but even one week or two after the fire – Irena Majcen and Prime Minister Miro Cerar, it is clear that the top of the Slovenian policy is not aware of the principle of the originator's responsibility. For example, in an interview on national television, Cerar stated the following: “I expect the company to respond adequately to the offer of compensation to citizens.” Further: "The responsibility of the people who are in this company will have to be determined to the end, but I expect only on a purely human salary that they will also offer the citizens a hand." The President of the Government, who swore to work with all his might for the well-being of Slovenia, expects the company responsible for this disaster to offer compensation to citizens and to show a human side in the event of the greatest anthropogenic accident in the history of Slovenia. Therefore, the President of the Government is counting on some kind of kindness and philanthropy of Kemis, while completely ignoring the fact that Kemis is legally bound to pay for all the costs of intervention and environmental rehabilitation and that his Government, that is Cerara's government, is the one who must force him to do so. And what does Kemis himself say about that? The letter received by Members of the National Assembly stated that Kemis did not evade responsibility for the event, but would only compensate for the remediation of damage which would clearly prove to be the result of their activities. Now, watch out. It is very convenient in this matter that the Vrhnika has not yet carried out such environmental analyses as are now being carried out and that it is virtually impossible to prove anything. Even more so since Kemis is standing on the former dump of the leather vrhnika industry, which also placed dangerous waste there. It is also very useful that the health consequences of inhaling toxic substances will not come to light until decades later. It is clear, therefore, that Kemis, whose slogan reads: “Because we care!” does not really care about the environment and health of the surrounding population. And why wouldn't they, after all? The purpose of the company is to make profits for owners, not to protect the environment and human health. How the environmental disaster caused by the fire is perceived by the company's management, was very well described by the company's Director at a meeting of the Infrastructure Committee and the area a few days ago. Then this man said, I will quote him: “The disaster is from a business point of view for Kemis, but no one will convince me about the environment that it is a disaster. This is a fire in which certain emissions occurred. I just want everyone here to know that if batteries, planes, vehicles, say electric, electronic equipment - in every piece of electrical, electronic equipment you have all those substances that were burning here." This fire, this accident is therefore a business disaster for Kemis, but not for the environment. On the other hand, the value of toxic substances in some areas is such that farmers must not feed animals with grass growing there and that residents near Kemis must not eat the fruits and vegetables of their gardens. Let us leave aside the fact that the olive grove that has run into the Tojnica stream has killed everything that lies and goes in it. Let us also leave aside the fact that it could be even worse if this guest were to blend into Ljubljana and continue to Savo. But no, for the environment, it's no longer a heavy burden and an accident, this fire is a disaster for a dirty capital company. And then there's the banalization of the whole event, because if there's an electric device on fire and a car and a refrigerator, I don't know what else, the same substances are being released everywhere. Yeah, of course, but this isn't a refrigerator, it's a warehouse with a little less than a thousand tons of hazardous waste. And this comparison, designed to banalize an event, is like comparing a campfire to a forest fire and explaining how it is the same thing, because all over the place the same substances are released. We can see, therefore, on the basis of all that has been presented, that efforts have already begun, that the whole event has been bogged down and that the responsibility for recovery has been transferred to the country. The Socialists do not agree and demand that in the case of Kemis, the state does everything to recover all the costs of intervention and environmental rehabilitation, as well as all the health costs that are and will be the result of this fire. Kemis must pay all: from used filters for gas masks to covering the costs of hospitalisation of two firefighters, from compensation for the inability to use grass for animal feed to compensation for lower property values in the affected area, the rehabilitation of the Tojnica stream, the rehabilitation of polluted water, soil and air in the wider area and everything else that belongs to it. All of this should be paid by Kemis as a dirty capital, to which, after all, he is obliged by law if only the Government will insist on the enforcement of this law. And if Kemis himself is not able to pay, let his owner pay, it is Gorenje, and if he cannot pay Gorenje, let his owners pay and so on throughout the ownership chain. Because if profits could have gone up this same chain, then in the event of an accident, costs should also be incurred down this same chain of ownership. And the government is the one who has to make sure that all of this is realized. At the same time, it is the government that is responsible for preventing similar disasters in the future. It is quite absurd that Kemis reportedly complied with all the laws and regulations prescribed by the law. This tells us a lot about these standards, which, as I mentioned earlier, are constantly and systematically reduced in the name of removing administrative barriers. And without exception, all governments participated, although such a reduction in standards as we have witnessed with the latest amendment to the Environmental Protection Act, which they have forged in this current government, we have not seen before. It is no wonder, then, that this coalition, which has severely reduced environmental standards with this last novel, has made sure that the essential points of the recommendations that we are considering today are deleted. These two points, points 4 and 5 of the recommendations, are: "The Government should examine the environmental permits of all business entities in Slovenia that carry out activities that can lead to environmental pollution of a larger scale, which is dangerous to human health and are located in the vicinity of populated areas and protected natural environments." In addition, point 5 of the recommendation: "The government of the Ministry responsible for the environment and space shall require the preparation of a report on the appropriateness of the legislation in force which regulates the placing in the premises and the issuing of environmental consents for business operators carrying out activities that may lead to pollution of the environment of a greater scale." In the United Left, we have proposed further refinement to extend the last recommendation further by examining the appropriateness of the legislation in force in the field of environmental protection. But of course, the coalition voted against these two key points of the recommendations. In this way, it is obvious that Members today will only decide that the Government should monitor the situation and present the analyses to the public, as it has already done, and that it should prepare a report on the implementation of the control on the fulfilment of fire safety in Kemis, which it must do in any event for the purpose of the investigation. In the United Left, we will not, of course, object to what has been recommended from the proposal. We point out, however, that there are still some potential Kemis in Slovenia, one of them in my home, Škofja Loki. We have already warned about this in the United Left before this last fire, and we hope that in the light of recent developments, the Government will nevertheless undertake security checks in companies that collect and serve hazardous waste. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u16	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr Zvonko Lah, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u17	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, Minister with the team! There's money in the trash, a lot of money. Kemis accepts between 20,000 and 25 thousand tons of hazardous waste annually. These are waste from industrial and craft activities, health and research institutions and also hazardous household waste. Let us begin at the beginning or at the official opening of Kemis. This took place on 16 June 2009. The tape was cut: the current Minister of Environment and Space Karl Erjavec, former Mayor of Vrhnika Marjan Rihar, CEO of Gorenje – 100% owner of Kemis – Franjo Bobinac and director of Kemis Emil Nanut. According to the official information received, Kemis obtained a building permit for the construction of the plant in the degraded area, which according to municipal plans was intended for municipal activities. Kemis is expected to obtain a building permit on the basis of three public debates, with one month's publication of the dossier. This is said to have been made known to the public in detail to the activities to be carried out by Kemis. The building permit was issued in 2008, the applicable licence in April 2011, the environmental licence in June 2013, supplemented, amended in February 2016 and also in February of this year. By issuing an environmental permit, the company obtained a permit for the operation of the waste treatment and disposal plant. Kemis has been allowed to process practically all wastes, about 750 species in different ways: mixing, milling, mating, drying, manual sorting, distillation and similar preparation for further treatment at home or abroad. According to the Ministry of Environment and Space, which issued on 24 May a report on the fire activities carried out in Kemis, the company was able to collect toxic, environmentally hazardous and potentially flammable substances. Their quantities in the environmental permit are below the threshold of establishing environmental risk facilities called the Seveso Directive. The latest pre-accident inspection in 2015 did not show any non-conformity or violation of environmental or other permits. Regular annual fire drills were also intended to ensure that firefighters were trained for such accidents, that they knew what they were putting out, how they were putting out and what the potential risks were. The company should also have a system and a plan to manage such accidents. Where or what went wrong? The fire in Kemis was some kind of stress test, which, in the eyes of the whole country, exposed all incompetence, ignorance, incoherence and arrogance of state institutions, unable at the most risky times to take a common position and assume every part of their responsibilities. The first communications for the public about the accident were too clear and precise, and fear and uncertainty were created among people. The local population and the wider Slovenia were not adequately aware of the results of earth, air and water research. The competent state institutions which were indirectly or directly involved in the accident have been cancelled. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that a much better level of risk would be to raise to the highest level and then gradually drop on the basis of the results of the research carried out. That's how it's done abroad. The inefficiency and intentional ignorance of institutions seem unacceptable to us. Citizens have a duty to ensure basic security and to ensure that they also have the right to a healthy environment after the end. It is irresponsible and misleading to mark all such establishments in Slovenia as time bombs. If we are able to establish a system of good control for companies that systematically violate laws and regulations, such accidents will not happen often or will not happen at all. We people do not realize that our way of life unwittingly creates dangerous wastes, which are a mirror of society, so to some extent they will always be part of our environment. In doing so, it is important to demand transparent and responsible treatment of them. If legislation and safety recommendations are consistently followed, we will avoid such disasters. In the New Slovenia Group, we will unanimously support the proposal for recommendations.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u18	The text shall be given by the Group of Non-Aligned Members, for which Dr. Bojan Dobovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u19	All those who accompany this meeting are respected! The security situation in the world is changing from military threats to civil threats and environmental threats are a very important factor in the functioning of all institutions in all countries around the world. But what's going on? There are crises and savings are happening. It saves itself first on safety and therefore so many disasters, accidents and everything related to safety and ecology. I don't want the responsibility for such an accident in Kemis to be known only for communication and to be responsible for communication. The culprits are pretty much something, and that's why this session is important. First care for people, not only for people living in the area, but for those who were first on the scene: firefighters, Civil Protection, police, health workers and others. What will be done, and what has been done for these people, for health and for their safety? Another time. What's going on at the company? First Gorenje, responsibility in Gorenje – Kemis is part of Gorenje. What was this company even doing, how did it deal with waste? We see that it has not only destroyed waste, but that most of the work is repacking, resorting and then shipping these wastes to the Balkans, abroad. And what's going on with these wastes? Third time. We are interested in what similar companies and what threats are also being threatened elsewhere in Slovenia. We can see that something similar is happening to us now virtually every day. So, how much more of this is in Slovenia? The government is obliged to do this analysis with its institutions. And of course, what is Slovenia's strategic path, what kind of industry do we want? Will Slovenia protect its natural resources, among which are the most important water and wood? And what are we going to invest in? In tourism, in some difficult industry, how will all this affect the environment? Of course, it is important to react now too, but what is currently happening on the waste market. If one of the leading companies no longer works, what happens in Slovenia? We know that there is a legal and illegal market. As soon as the legal market does not work, the illegal market will react. What is happening to waste now, and what damage does it cause? The damage has certainly been done and this damage must immediately be corrected on the environment and on people. All analyses also need to be highlighted, and I would expect an analysis of part of the fourth branch of government, the media. Nobody's ever done that before. Such analyses must also be made in order to prepare for the future. We will certainly support the recommendations in the Group of Non-Aligned Members, but we regret that this is only a narrower form of recommendations and that these recommendations could be more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u20	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Center Party, for her mag. Bojan Krajnc.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u21	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, other representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The fire in Kemis and all the events surrounding him surprised everyone. In the first place – negative of course – the inhabitants and inhabitants of Vrhnika, and even more so, as it seems, some competent services and ministries. We therefore actively support today's debate in the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, and we hope that it will contribute to raising safety standards in the collection and processing of hazardous chemicals and to better managing major chemical accidents that can have a fatal impact on the state of the environment and, most importantly, on human health. Allow me once again to thank the firefighters and members of Civil Protection who have apparently successfully intervened that there has been no loss of human life due to the fire. Given the extent of the fire and the presence of the burning of hazardous chemicals, an ecological laboratory with a mobile unit and a mobile unit for meteorology and hydrology were also activated on the ground, which were mainly aimed at preventing environmental hazards, then carrying out measurements and sampling of land, air and water. Following the limitation of fire, the Environment Agency of the Republic of Slovenia started monitoring air quality, namely concentrations of PM10 particles and nitrogen oxides. The environmental laboratory with the mobile unit of the Institute Joseph Stefan took samples of water and the Faculty of Biotechnical Engineering of the University of Ljubljana carried out soil and air sampling and measurements of mercury in the air. The following activities included the National Institute for Public Health and the Directorate for Food Safety, Veterinary and Plant Protection. It is clear from all of this that there are many different services that we can assume today, and we hope that each of them has done their own work at the highest level of expertise. Nevertheless, after the event, residents and residents of Vrhnika lacked mainly timely, accurate, comprehensible, useful and harmonised information. This has already been demonstrated in the debate on the recommendations at the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, the environment and the place where virtually everyone was invited to the meeting, without exception, stressed this. Therefore, in the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, we have further recommended that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as soon as possible, present a national environmental chemical accident management plan, which will include clear guidance on communication and coordination in the event of accidents that have a greater potential for environmental and human health impacts. The government has also set up an inter-resort working group to coordinate activities at national level concerning the consequences of the fire at the Kemis mountain resort, run by Srečko Šestan. For example, the group informed the interested public yesterday that a thousand of the 600-metre belts in which the restrictions apply had been narrowed to 730 metres, where the results of the analysis of the feed samples which were further withdrawn were assessed as consistent and safe. People outside the restricted area are no longer subject to precautionary recommendations, but only to general hygiene recommendations. Only the use of the drip is advised. Yesterday, a mobile team started working, with air protection and safe food experts visiting residents and residents of Vrhnika and providing them with the necessary information. Almost 4 weeks after the fire, it is also time to consider what we can and must all do together in order to avoid future such disasters, especially in order to better manage the situation immediately after the accident. Of course, there is also a lot of talk about liability and recovery caused by the fire. The stated obligation of Director Kemis to take responsibility for all the consequences of the fire is only the first in the line of responsibility. Everyone else should take their share of the responsibility. We will also support the recommendations in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre this time.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u22	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a recommendation. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor to prepare Mr Franc Jurša and Mrs Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u23	Thank you very much, President. The accident was practically three weeks ago, and today we are all still talking about the consequences in Parliament. And those who, of course, would appreciate that this is bad, not bad is just that the accident happened. [[…]] Of course, it will also be bad for more or less of all parliamentary groups to note that, of course, certain services or certain bodies have not played their part. Why it has not been played is, of course, a domestic task for all authorities to find out very quickly and, of course, also remove these errors. However, this will not solve all problems, especially when we speak, we like to repeat very much the same sentence: “We hope that such accidents will no longer occur.” Those who are comforted by this and those who feel that disaster will not occur live in a fairytale world. There will always be accidents. We can only hope for the best that we will always know the good and the quality of our response when accidents occur. Are we really ready? Do we have the right legislation? Do we have the right frame? Do we have enough resources? Do we have, I'll say, between the local and national levels smart enough and good enough quality connections, that no matter what the plans say and no matter who the commander is, of course, we know that if one or the other thing dies, that the thing will always run independently of this system? I'd go in a row. In particular, to ask first whether we have the right legislation. Legislation has practically been amended several times over the last 15 years in this area, and I can say that, of course and personally, I am sure that when we read it, it is good and appropriate. Are we missing something within this legislation? If I am reading the latest information from Mr Šestana, when he had a shorter interview with the STA on 1 June, he said the following sentence and no one is talking about it today. It admits, I quote: “Slovenia does not have a preparatory state plan for protection and rescue in the event of the release of hazardous substances into the environment, because this area has never been recognised as a risk that will require state intervention. But he has a state plan for a nuclear accident. For the other areas, companies and municipalities have their plans for protection and rescue.” So, I haven't even heard from the committee today whether anything will move in this area. Will someone make this plan? And what's even more important, of course, is that I went to see — because these plans actually exist in case of accidents — both of them to the largest congregation where disasters could be the greatest and worst. And, of course, both Maribor and Ljubljana have two large, good, fat bowls, where in fact in each plan – one in 2006, the other in 2007 – are practically very precise about all the procedures that are meant to take place in the event of such an accident. But we had an accident at Vrhnika, and today I listened mostly only to how the authorities at the state level had failed. I'm sorry, I can't agree to this. I'll also talk about who and where he didn't play his role, but it always starts where the location of the accident is. And we know, and also on the committee, we were talking; with the representatives of the proponents, Mr Krivec, we had a small dilemma about who was responsible and who was not in the very initial stage of rescue and protection when the disaster occurred. Once again, I went to look very closely and very clearly at article 21 of the Law on Local Self-Government – that of course the mayor cares about fire safety and organises rescue aid, and in the next indent – organises assistance and rescue for cases of elementary and other accidents. Of course, Mr Krivec then warned me to refer, of course, to the original system law governing this issue. And, of course, if we go to look at this system law, this is the Law on Protection against Natural and Other Disasters, in Article 98 very clearly and accurately states the following – the mayor, what his task is –: Taking care of the implementation of the preparation for protection against natural and other disasters, adopting plans for protection and rescue, establishing the type and extent of the force for protection, rescue and assistance of 73., 75. and 76. which very clearly define what they are, taking care of the implementation of measures to prevent and mitigate the consequences of natural and other accidents, leads to protection, rescue and remedy the consequences of natural and other accidents, and so on. Why I read, of course, I will explain clearly below. For the operational professional management of protection, rescue and assistance in the event of natural and other disasters, the mayor appoints a Civil Protection Commander or he is himself. In fact, both laws make it very clear who is responsible in the local community for preparing things for education only; in the event of an accident, who is the first to activate, leads, organises, mediates, and, finally, draws the line and submits the report as necessary. What can we actually see at the time of the accident? The mayor only referred to the fact that he did not have the data, that he did not have the information to short-circuit, a bunch of problems and kept paying attention only to the country. [[…]] That's all he did. First of all, any mayor must first of all ensure security in his municipality and, of course, he must act calmly, but not only to raise unrest and so on. And so, of course, today, talking only about mistakes that have occurred at the state level is wrong. On the other hand, of course, one wonders who was the first one, and where was the biggest problem? Look, I'm sure not with firefighters, because firefighters have done their homework, and that's very professional, well, and we can only thank them. Civil protection reacted and did its job. But then suddenly it stopped where people were essentially the most concerned — whether they could still live in this space, in fact, how they should function. And I must say, I was extremely ill-willed and angry when I saw the reaction of the National Institute of Public Health. It's a disaster! However, if I have yet to consider on the committee that the Director should consider but will resign, I expect him to step down today. I expect this because the simple organization for which he is like, I will say, the first person in charge at the National Institute has not played yet, he said on the committee that he still sees where and how they will take the samples and thus, of course, come to the data to inform the public of the consequences and of course the way of safe life in this environment and space. [[…]] Moreover, he allowed himself to say one thing — that he did not have the resources to carry out laboratory investigations. And even in some controversy, he says, "These funds were not intended for this purpose, but are intended for the people." Yeah, for God's sake, what kind of investigations are the national institute's doing, if not those investigations it's doing, I'm gonna say, because of this accident?Oh, my God! I'm sorry, he can be highly educated for me, maybe even if he's proved to have organizational skills somewhere, but at this point, he quit, and he just won't be able to hide behind the institution anymore. Moreover, in the way that the National Institute for Public Health communicated to the public, you know that at the Institute – or I already said on the Committee that I still do not know how many employees are there today – they have information on the website that there are 290 to 490 employees; however, the citizens do not think how many are really employees, they are a little bit moving there. But no matter what, if I were to go, I would say, and I would draw one medium, and I would say, let's say, let's say, 320 employees -- I don't believe that among 320 people, one is not able to communicate and come to the echoes, and of course more than clearly say and calm people, and maybe even come with some tangible information. Is that what the minister should do? Is that what the President of the Government is going to do? Don't I know who's doing this? No! No! The institution which is also in charge of this by law will start, and this is, of course, a national institution in the first place. Let's go see what this national institute has to do. He did not answer the question I asked him on the committee on this issue. Article 6, paragraph 23a, which refers to the tasks of the National Institute for Public Health, has 20 tasks defined in this Article. Of these 20 tasks, 7 tasks are directly related to the exact case that took place in Vrhnika, where the Director should simply receive the resources, people and tasks that he should have been carrying out on the first day. They're gone. They're still saying he doesn't have that money. If he doesn't have it, how did he plan the funds? That's not why I'm supposed to be the director, because he always has to have a backup. If she doesn't, I don't know what she's actually doing there. But education is more important than having funds for such accidents? Then, of course, the National Institute for Public Health is the National Laboratory for Health, Environment and Food. We put it together a couple of years ago, set up to take care of national security in identifying the particulars it needs, and even in one article – this is Article 23.c. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] — which makes it very clear what this laboratory should actually do: public information and awareness and reporting in accordance with specific rules, and, of course, the implementation of the activities of the mobile environmental unit in the field of the environment in case of possible environmental risks and accidents. [[…]] I'm sorry, but he's got a job to do! And that's the first day and that's what the Civil Protection Commander said! But if you ask me, the director should pick up the phone himself, call the Civil Protection Commander and respond and say, "Where can we help?" You should do what you do! And you know, in all normal countries, it's organized. They're not organized to come to the television and she says to the counselor when the reporter asks her, "Excuse me, when are the lab tests going to be?" “We don’t know, we’re not in charge, you know.” “Yes to what, for God's sake, are you in charge?” “Yes, you know, we are responsible for awareness-raising, teaching, education.” Excuse me, calm down and go home! I would answer to such a representative of the National Institute for Public Health. What public health? More and more private entertainment is going to such a national institute and nothing else! They're upsetting the people, and today we've been dealing with this issue for 8 hours, for unnecessary reasons. Let's move on. The same Director of the National Institute was once a Secretary of State and praised after an interview the person who, of course, also told the Committee on Public Health that he had put an end to something because a decision on the basis of the Chemical Act was established; Article 56 says that an Interdepartmental Commission on Chemical Safety is to be set up to take care of the exchange of information related to chemical and so on that I do not torture you. [[…]] And why did this come about? In the event of such accidents, she will be able to react. And of course this has also been established; on 6 October 2005, such an inter-ministerial commission was established. Ask me if it still works today. No, no, no. The same director of the National Institute for Public Health had this commission abolished inter-resortially. Case? I haven't believed in this case in a long time. And even boasting about this action at the time of giving an interview on this issue! I should have told the minister to call if he didn't drop out of that position himself. How many days since the accident today? Do we have the data yet? No, no, no. We have something else. People started ordering some lab tests themselves and picking up everything because they want to see if they live in a safe environment or not. By not knowing that they will collect and that they will collect data, where all other data will now appear that are not from this accident. This is gonna be a mess! But we do have the National Institute for Public Health and the National Laboratory, which was advocated by someone in this National Assembly when we set it up, that when we set it up, it will be faster, safer, more efficient, more cost-effective and, above all, everything will be good for us. Today we see how good it is. It's only good for those undetected 250 to 490 people who don't even know if they work there or not. Personally, as an MP, if you ask – whenever this director comes on behalf of the National Institute for Public Health, I don't believe him anymore because he's broken, I'll say, all confidence. And that's why a new man has to come. What was the problem? The problem was communication. We all know that. Have we done anything in this area? We all say that in the event of such accidents it is more or less clear how things work. We know what the commander has to do, what the mayor has to do, what the National Institute needs to do, what the National Institute needs to do, what the Civil Protection needs to do, when the military is activated, when the police are activated, everything else, we know everything. Do we know? And we can communicate when that happens? I'm sorry. I'm sure everyone knows what to do for themselves. But who's in charge? According to the plans, we know who's in charge. But in practice, it turns out most of the time that it doesn't know who's in charge, but it does the egotrip, who's going to order something and so on. Do you know what the rule is? I remember when I was in charge of Civil Protection, and I told that commander for protection and rescue, and I told the Mayor he suggested that he propose me as commander, and I didn't do this before in my life. [[…]] Why me? And the chief said to me, "Jani, if I'm the commander and I'm gonna pick up the phone when I need an army, no one's gonna answer my phone in the office. But if you, as a mayor, pick up the phone from your position, this will happen.” It's wrong that it works that way but unfortunately, it just seems like it works that way. That is why, of course, I have proposed that a way of informing and determining how this works in the event of such disasters should also be changed. Plans, I said we've already written, but how does this actually work in practice, and that's another question. You know, we're just talking about the Supreme today. But we haven't learned anything from Postojna and from our lust. I will not forget the moment in Postojna, when the President of the Republic of Slovenia was extremely angry and ill-willed, because he did not see the army as commander-in-chief on the road, so that we could help in the stomach that day. And his counselor, not to say who, had to whisper: “President, the army cannot go on the road on its own. The army has to be called on, that's not how it works. It's not the army's fault. Civil protection must submit a request for the matter to be activated.” And who was the Civil Protection Commander back then? Someone called the mayor, so I was talking about this communication and connection. The incumbent mayor of that time did not even grasp the magnitude of the accident in the first days. Only six days later — two diploma assignments speak of it — he reacted, replaced the commander, became commander himself, took over the tasks, and things began to work. But back then, all of Slovenia was on its feet, everyone knew. He just said the following sentence: “Information, I put on the Internet.” Please! Old moms just don't look somewhere in the village of the Internet and know what's going on and how to react. And we all know what the main problem was then – electricity was no longer available and, of course, aggregates were necessary and similar. And where did we hide it? We're back in communication. In five years, we'll be talking again about what we haven't learned from Vrhnika? I hope not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u24	Mr. Daniel Krivec as a motioner, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u25	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. First of all, I must say that I thank all my colleagues, all my fellow Members, for in some way confirming that the convening of this meeting was necessary, necessary to shed light on all this issue around this Vrhnika disaster. I must say that with most of what my colleague Jani said, I absolutely agree, including his proposal on the Committee, it made sense and is included in the recommendation. However, before the debate continues, I would like to draw attention to the fact that we have also tabled amendments to the recommendations, where we are re-examined to support the recommendation to point 4 and point 5. Given that it is possible to supplement these amendments to the end of the debate, I propose that you listen carefully and that if you find that it is reasonable to support yourself and that a phrase may be reversed or a trifle may be added, I nevertheless suggest that we make an effort and that we prepare these amendments, which we have the opportunity to put forward by the end of the debate, so that certain things remain open and that you have all warned about in the debate, are also, in some way, resolved with recommendations for further resolution, including what my colleague Jani discussed. On point 4 and on the 4th of the recommendation, we reiterate and refer to the National Assembly's recommendation that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, by decision, instruct the Ministry responsible for the environment and space to examine the possibilities for the renewal of the environmental permit procedure or for the repeal of the environmental permit for Kemis d.o.o. and in the light of recent events, also examine the environmental permits of all business entities in Slovenia that carry out activities that may lead to environmental pollution of a greater extent, which is dangerous to human health and are located in the vicinity of populated areas and protected natural environments, and by this written report within 30 days of the publication of the recommendation in the Official Journal, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. In the Government's explanation for the Committee's meeting, which the Minister read in her presentation, where they object to this recommendation, this is justified by the fact that this procedure cannot be introduced except on a recommendation or on a proposal from a competent inspector. That's one way to go. Furthermore, it is possible to resume the procedure in accordance with the General Administrative Procedure Act, in order not to meet the conditions in respect of the environmental authorisation for Kemis in order to initiate the procedure for renewal after the official duty. We all find in the debate that this is the biggest accident with some of the dangerous substances that we have received in this short period and that this must be dealt with in a special way and that there is also a need to change, and on the other hand we have such a dry, formal position of the Ministry. The Ministry only states in explanation that the environmental authorisation for Kemis has essentially changed twice since the basic one. Thus, there were also certain conditions that the existing environmental authorisation, which was granted in 2014, should have been supplemented. If you listen carefully to this recommendation, it goes in this direction that the environmental permit should be re-examined, and this does not wait for a quasi inspector to arrive within a year and find that something might be wrong, but at the moment when the event occurred and when we all found that things did not work, that this environmental permit could be reconsidered and possibly taken away if things were wrong. I think that this recommendation should, however, be supported by colleagues and colleagues, given your discussions. I am also saying this because the environmental permit will in any case have to be renewed by Kemis, because given the data that it has burned to a little more than half of this plant, it means that the technological processes will also be modified further and that in any case there is likely to be some assessment of the environmental permit. And if we all find that the problem may be that this facility is close to some important watercourse, that it is placed in a settlement, but that it still does not fulfil the commitments under the Seveso Directive, it is necessary to ask whether this can be changed and whether it is possible to assess it in some other way. And this recommendation goes precisely in this direction, that the Ministry of Environment and Space take this seriously, not only on the basis of a formal request from an inspector or a procedure that would only be bound by the General Administrative Procedure Act. So I recommend that we may still correct if any of the dictions are too harsh, but that this is certainly left in the conclusions of the recommendations, because also most of the civil initiatives, most of the countries in this area require that the matter be re-examined and that it be determined whether it is properly located or not, or meets the conditions and so on. So I believe that you will continue to decide to support this. At least, given the discussions you've had so far. We are also re-thinking the recommendation that we have already proposed at the parental committee, where it has been rejected. It is recommended, however, that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia be encouraged to require the Ministry of Environment and Space to prepare a report on the appropriateness of the legislation in force, which regulates the placing in the premises and the issuing of environmental consents for business operators carrying out activities that may lead to pollution of a larger scale which is dangerous to human health, and to keep this report informed of the National Assembly and so on. Again, it is a recommendation, which, in the majority of the views of the parliamentary groups, you have also discussed in some way that all these permits need to be verified in some way. We are not talking about all entities now, but about those objects where the potential danger is great. Also on the committee, the debate was interesting and everyone wondered why so many of these facilities were scattered. I think we have over 200 similar objects. If we speculate a little bit, probably because all of these objects have avoided a directive that imposes, I would say, stricter treatment of these objects. We are talking about the Seveso Directive, where there are some restrictions: the size of such an object, the number of employees in such an facility, the number of hazardous wastes or dangerous substances in such a facility. And the Seveso Directive has some limits and all these facilities are obviously below these limits, so they are not obliged to report further. More importantly, however, they are not obliged to make additional assessments in the area of hazardous situations or, according to the local authorities, to assess what happens in the event of accidents. And that's not supposed to happen for such facilities. Everyone who deals with this area and knows any establishment or society that has this commitment, you know that there are requirements and for fire safety and for other actions that are significantly more stringent. And now we have an example of Director Kemis talking about that even in the past there have been several fires that have been extinguished locally, that this is a matter of some process, some events within society itself, and that this is a normal matter. But who can guarantee that this doesn't happen, I don't know, one year from now, two years from now, etc.? However, there is no judgment and obligation on how to deal with such situations because they are not reporting to Seves. And now we will look in a kind of calm way at such objects, which are located next to watercourses, in populated areas, which otherwise meet the conditions of some of the norms now, but are not obliged to make any judgement for some extraordinary event. And that's some flaw probably in our legislation. It is clear that when we copy it from the European directives, there are relatively large regulations. However, for our area where we probably have a different population structure – a different nature, if I am purely direct – this directive is probably possible in certain segments, we are not talking about all, it can be overly loose or used in such a way that, clearly, these criteria are reduced, these objects dispersed, and none of these facilities are practically bound to report under the Seveso Directive. I think this could be a problem in the future. And from this point of view, it is our recommendation that the Ministry examine this and if it finds out that it is okay, then let us know. However, in view of the recent developments — even more recently, as I mentioned earlier in my discussion — the minister also said that the fire in Ljutomer also caused some contamination of the watercourse will probably need to be thought that such facilities are being placed more carefully. We are certainly not in favour of banning some things, but all of these events give us probably a basis for considering whether the locations are really all of these objects, which, in the event of an accident, can cause some pollution, are really the most appropriate, and are, through some process, possible in those locations where it turns out that this level of risk is too high, limit or permit one part of production, another part of production or hazardous waste or some other technology that is problematic, and through some process we are really moving to a more suitable location. Both of these recommendations were rejected on the Committee, just by the Minister's interpretation that this could not be done because of formality. In this case, too, the recommendation first teaches that placing in the premises is the responsibility of local communities. All of us who were mayors know the extent to which local communities are in charge; until we need Arso's consent, the leaders, etc., so that this mistaking, who decides to put up, please don't go. We know that the country finally decides on such important sites. Finally, at the end of the last sentence, the ministry essentially gave our recommendation valid and weight because it says: "From this point of view, the legislation governing placement has regulated the necessary instruments protecting public interest and will certainly need to be re-examined in recent events to see if it can be further improved." Thus, our recommendation goes in the context of the Ministry's view that legislation in this area needs to be improved and that is followed by our recommendation. Like I said, the amendments are on our side. In the event that anything needs to be complemented, I would really ask my colleagues because from their discussions until now it has been understood that they also support this segment, it is said that legislation is also being re-examined and that even in the case of Kemis, a review is being carried out. [[…]] I propose that, if there are additions, comments to inform us that we can supplement the amendments because the applicant can complement them at the time of the discussion. Otherwise, if you think they are appropriate – and I believe in your discussions to support these matters – then we will see in the debate on amendments how and what.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u26	Mr Franc Jurša has the floor to prepare Mrs Ludmila Novak and Mag. Alenka Bratusek. Mr. Jurša, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u27	Thank you very much. There is something in this hall that we have experienced in the past that is also the responsibility of acting in the event of natural and other disasters. As a result, for example, colleague Möderndorfer has, in fact today, highlighted some things from the practice of how and who and what he is doing in the event of such an accident. I am well aware that we will never be able to act in such a way that there will never be an accident. It was an accident, it was, and it will be. And unfortunately, this disaster — similar but thank God probably with less dangerous substances — also happened in Ljutomer last night. I hope that the services responsible will actually react here significantly faster and significantly more effectively. One question comes to me. Didn't the owner do something here? And I think that the most responsible person in this company should also respond appropriately to the public. This is in some ways also the responsibility of the owner of the company in which the accident actually took place. Now it's not important to have a name and a last name. It's important to know who this owner really is. In fact, I am most interested in doing this from the occurrence of the accident, but of course the procedures that took place until the accident was in some way also the part where the accident was healed in this sense that it was no longer burning in Kemis. [[…]] Jani Möderndorfer mentioned the Law on the Protection against Natural and Other Accidents, which explicitly defines who has a role in this matter. And, of course, the first duty of the company, then the local community, continues in the area of the statistical region where certain institutions are also established – even if you want, the Civil Protection Headquarters – and then in the final stage also the level of the Republic where the Civil Protection Staff of the Republic of Slovenia is actually established. An appropriate plan must be drawn up at the level of the factory and it must be worked out, in which case, who also intervenes. I would be very pleased if the Government received this appropriate reply, whether everything in Kemis was as planned and prescribed or not, and what the actual intervention of all the authorities responsible was. If these authorities and paramedics inside the factory were too small, of course they needed the help of local communities. In the local community, it is strictly known who is responsible for the field of fire safety. Has this person called the mayor played his or her role or function? In addition, the municipality of Civil Protection also has the same mayor. Did the commander and headquarters play their part? Did he ask for help from the Civil Protection regional headquarters if he needed it? I don't have that information. I can't exactly know if this was all done as it was written in the plans. The next phase is the Civil Protection Headquarters. We have a commander, a headquarters where there are representatives of different institutions, different institutions that perform certain tasks in an accident. Of course, we must now ask ourselves whether both regional and republican headquarters have been called to assist in this matter. And whoever coordinates this work is known to us all if, of course, there is a demand for it at all and how it has responded. I'm referring to the Civil Protection Commander here. In some ways, I find it unclear that this appointment of some coordination has been called not knowing how long after the accident. This coordination, I think, would not be necessary if everyone respected the rules and plans. I know who in this room would answer these questions strictly to me, but I'm not sure that this person will answer my questions, because someone else is here to answer them. However, I hope that as it is written, planned or prescribed. I'll stop here.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u28	Mrs. Ludmila Novak has the floor. Get ready, mags. Alenka Bratušek and Mr Simon Zajc. Mrs. Novak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u29	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! Many times in our debates, I find that in this country, as well as we Members, we have multiple double criteria. Today we are talking about the great disaster that occurred in the fire in Kemis, Vrhnika, which threatened human health, animal health and the health of the whole nature. We are all disgusted, both by the opposition and the coalition members, by the reaction of the state institutions, we are all disgusted. She was recognized, uncoordinated. The superiors told me that they had all come to the hall to listen to what instructions they would receive, and instructions on how they should act now in this disaster left without these answers. So different national institutions, which we are paying dearly, have not performed their functions. I wonder if anyone will answer for that, too, if someone will be on their own pay for it. And here I'm going to talk about double criteria. Not so long ago, Nova Slovenija re- tabled the Regression Claims Act for the third time. Let me remind you a little bit about what this is all about. So entrepreneurs, private individuals, espouses, if a work accident occurs due to a slight negligence and the injured worker has severe consequences, they answer with their property because they cannot even be protected in these cases. So they can afford to pay for all their assets, even though they are already paying for accidents in the fund. Here the health of the entire congregation was threatened, if you say so, as well as of the surrounding population. Will someone answer with their property? Is that at least why anyone's gonna be in any position? Will any of his wages be taken away from him? But here we're gonna act like we don't even know who's responsible for anything. Unfortunately, there are many such cases in our country. Yesterday, I was on the Public Finance Supervisory Commission, where I replaced my colleague. I was appalled about reports of what is going on with workers in Luka Koper because of the business model through which Luka Koper hires workers through agencies. Over 800 workers who also work for 16 hours with minimum wage, in difficult relationships and so on. And it's in a company that owns 65% of state property. On the other hand, we hear that we are going to amend the labour legislation, where, in the least possible cases, they will be able to take away even a work permit from the entrepreneur. Here, the company, 65% state-owned, over 800 workers work as slaves and are paid miserablely and under difficult conditions and so on. It's a big duplicity. And if we remember the case of the Ormož Sugar Factory and that complaint that the state was supposed to file and someone missed their deadline. Did something happen? Did this man answer anything? And his superiors, did they answer anything? I remember a case where someone had to resign because of the stolen pasta, which was due to the disease situation, and there were other people in office who had illegally put thousands of euros in their pockets. I remember the cases that we have also dealt with here in Parliament. As a result of the tax receipts, the defences had to pay a thousand euros in fines because a few euros did not count in that cash register. And we've been looking here at the case of Minister Jew spending money on the team because there's been an administrative error. I've forgotten the exact number, but if I'm not more than a thousand euros. [[advertising from the hall]] 125 thousand euros. So what a duality is happening to us! And we're chasing chicken thieves, and where we find that it's exactly in this so-savvy state bank that the money is 800 million euros That we know about one case, probably it wasn't the first time that this was happening in secret without anyone knowing it. [[…]] Of course the real ones knew about it. Yeah, well, we do have double rules or more in this country. Some small person is in charge of less than 200 euros, but here there are really big, big places of irregularity, abuses, nothing happens. I must say, I am concerned about this state of affairs in the country. Soon we will celebrate the day of statehood and I am proud of my country. But we can't be proud of this situation. That's a long way from normal. And if this disaster does not teach us that the competent institutions will really draw up plans to deal with and implement such cases, then we may be very afraid. We know what's going on in the world, how many terrorist attacks there are. I hope so, of course, and I wish that this would not happen anywhere in our country, but unfortunately human wickedness is also growing, so we are not safe for such cases, even in Slovenia, and we can only be afraid if we are not prepared for it. That is why I hope and also ask the competent ministries and also the institutions responsible for this to analyse what has gone wrong and also to draw up plans to do so in the future. It is the endangered health of people who can and may have, of course, we all hope to have as little impact on the health of these people as possible in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u30	The word has magic. Alenka Bratusek. Get ready for Mr. Simon Zajc and Dr. Ange Logar. Here you go, Mrs. Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u31	Thank you very much, and also in my name a nice greeting to all! Dear colleague in front of me, I'll sign everything. So I can be very brief. Prime Minister Miro Cerar stands before the public and says that the action was bad, but he should also say how he will proceed. I agree with myself that today's session must not go unpunished in something that will make people even more afraid in and around the Vrchnika. Our job would be to calm them down. But I would like answers and information from the competent institutions. In particular, this will not solve the problem, but I wonder how it is possible that such a warehouse is in the middle of a settlement. How is that possible? I commit that something like this is probably what every country needs, but that such a thing, so many dangerous substances in the middle of the village, is hard to understand. People turn to me by email; I can't help them, and I can't help them, and I'm not competent, but I can ask them what they're interested in. Why, for example, does this warehouse not have an incarceration shaft to prevent dangerous substances from leaking into the surrounding area, which is said to be for every tanker, even if it is placed in the house? This facility wasn't supposed to have that. How is it possible that firefighters who were first on the scene will not perform medical examinations until next week, if this is true, how is this possible? How can we not tell people whether they can eat salad from their garden or not, or whether children can play in the sandbox or not? What has been done has been done, and unfortunately, the effects on health or on human health will not be determined in time, and at this point we are likely to be able to do otherwise. But it is irresponsible to stand before the public and find that things have gone wrong and at the same time do not say how you will act. As my colleague Jurš said, natural disasters — given in the context of a natural disaster — are and will be. However, responses to these natural disasters are key to telling people what they can, what they cannot do, where they need to be alert. Unfortunately, as my colleague said before me, the competent institutions have covered the entire line. I want and hope that you will be available to people in the office that was set up a month or a month after the accident, with concrete answers. If they ask, “may this be a problem?” they should be given a concrete answer. My colleague also mentioned another fire this morning, and apparently it can happen. It is unusual for a gentleman who has signed an opinion on environmental impacts – I do not know the name and surname, but it does not matter – to write an opinion for Magna as well; can we then believe that it will not affect the environment there as well? It's not the same thing, but it's also dangerous, flammable, harmful substances. And these are things that people urgently need to explain. Today I would like to hear from everyone who is here, "people are safe, they know what they can, they know what they can't, in short, we've made it clear to them what kind of environment they're in right now." In our country, however, I would like to find a place for such companies or such warehouses outside the settlements or as far away from the densely populated parts of our country as possible. I think we have quite a few of those locations at our disposal. But to people by telling them what was wrong in the past, we are not going to help today. I hope that the relevant institutions will also clear this up. Above all, it is crucial that you help people in the given situation as much as you can and tell them the true and true situation in which they live today.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u32	Mr. Simon Zajc has the floor. Get Dr. Ange Logar and Mr. Primož Hainz ready. Here you go, Mr. Zajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u33	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to government representatives and all colleagues! Yeah, we have this feeling, at least I have it, like we've fallen into some kind of fire business facility. This wave began in Kemis on 15 May, which was also the worst, mainly because of the burning of dangerous substances. Then it was only this week that we had two more fires. First, we had it here in Ljubljana by the bypass, because there was also an anti-group fence, and then yesterday evening, which was reported by our first member Kavčič, who also carried fire live for a while, so we were immediately informed on his part, given that he was a native there. When I talked to him, he also informed me that the problem was in Ljutomer that firefighters didn't have a wooden vehicle and they had to wait for this vehicle from Murska Sobota, which then came after 20 minutes, so that's another thing that would have to be considered in Ljutomer to make this fire department as effective as possible. What does all these fires have to do with anything? The first thing is that we don't know the exact cause of any of these fires yet, so what was the cause of these fires, where they occurred, and how to prevent them, so we don't know it yet. Another common point is that firefighters have done excellent work in all three cases. Just yesterday, when they were shutting down in Ljutomer, it was also World Fireman Day. Of course, firefighters have done their job well because they are highly qualified, and I am not talking only about professional firefighters, but also about volunteer workers. I am also a volunteer firefighter myself, and I know that we are constantly being educated, we have sectoral exercises just for such cases and on such facilities, so that we know exactly what someone is doing, when someone is doing, who is commanding and so on. Therefore, there is no surprise that firefighters and also Civil Protection are, of course, those who have done their work with excellence and without mistakes. Where were we, and where was the problem in Kemis? There were two of them. One is in the coordination of all services and the other is in communication. And in fact, they're both equally important, equally concerned. Because when we talk about coordination, if services are not well coordinated in such cases, then we have a problem with the effectiveness of these services, so this coordination is absolutely necessary and it is essential that we know or that we have some functioning crisis management system. As I've been informed, we don't have it, we're working on it, and it's going to work by autumn. If there is a day or a month earlier, nothing will be wrong, for if this rate of fire continues, it may be a little late by autumn. So I would like this crisis management system to be operational and also quickly put in place. The second problem is communication, which is equally important, which is particularly important because of the people affected by such accidents. Every such accident has an influential area and in this influential area our citizens live, in this case the Supremes and the Supremes, and communication is important because in such cases people need to know quickly what happened, why it happened, what consequences they have and how they should act to protect themselves, their property, their health. And in this case, Kemis, if I may say so, has been limping, but what I think is, at a time when we have so many channels of possible communication, is quite unacceptable. So it would be important to know who will communicate, who will communicate through Twitter, via Facebook, because journalists and then media outlets also summarize this, and then forward it, who will set up the information office and when who will go in the field. In short, everyone needs to know in advance how to communicate and how information will reach all the inhabitants in that area. Not just those who use the Internet, not just those who have electricity, because it can happen, like at the acorn that there was no electricity. In short, these things, it seems to me, from now on, should be really arranged from the pharynx forward. Because when such cases occur, people need to know what they can do, what happened, how it affects them, if they need help, who they can turn to, in what way. And this information needs to be fast, reliable and uniform. The main question is how now. It's been a while now, and we're still waiting for the results of the analysis, because I find it unacceptable. In particular, because we have the competent laboratories that we are paying for, we have employed people there to do their work quickly and reliably in such cases, and we still do not have this information. So this has to happen quickly now. There must be no more errors in communication. But if you don't have the data, it's hard to communicate. So these two points are connected. It will also be necessary to establish at the Ministry, in cooperation with the economy, where these wastes are now. In fact, just over 140,000 tons of hazardous waste in Slovenia are being produced; even as we speak here, these wastes are being produced. Where are these wastes now? This too is a problem that needs to be solved immediately or immediately. And the last thing. Kemis will have to compensate for the damage caused by this accident. There must be no dilemma here, what people are, what the environment has suffered because of Kemis, this damage must also be settled by Kemis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u34	Before continuing with Dr Logar, I give the floor to the Secretary of State, Mrs Jožici Maučec Zakotnik, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u35	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Members and Members! First of all, I must point out that the Ministry of Health has been monitoring the work of the health service in providing direct care to the population since the outbreak of fire. The Medical, Transport and Sports Service has adequately provided for the identification of firefighters, civil protection members, other intervention personnel and workers in the Kemis site. Everyone was then and still offered special health care and protection. In order to protect human health, we have regularly transmitted and published recommendations on how to prevent and minimise exposure to substances in the environment during and continuously during the fire. We didn't know until the first analysis. But we did so by respecting the greatest possible protection of humans. If there were a greater acute health risk in the days following the accident, they would point out this. We regularly checked whether school and kindergarten management had been informed of preventive measures. On the basis of concrete environmental analyses and information from the population, we have identified the largest area of possible fire impact. In particular, let me point out the largest area of potential impact that we will also monitor in the long term or carry out so-called monitoring. It is the area to Logatco west, Brezovice to Ljubljana east and Borovnica to the south of Vrhnika. Now known data show that no one in the wider area has been more at risk or exposed at this time. Environmental analyses were carried out by the National Laboratory for Health, Environment and Food, which immediately initiated procedures to obtain credible results from environmental analyses. Since there were no data on what to look for at first, the laboratory carried out extensive screening tests. We were also the first to point out the possibility of the presence of dioxins and furans, which were expected due to suspicion that chlorine compounds were also burning. In humans, we have seen problems associated with breathing, irritation of upper respiratory tracts and eyes, and headache. In relation to this symptom, 34 people were treated at the Vrhnika Health Center and 9 at the Centre for Toxicity. Long-term health consequences are not expected. But we want to rule them out with certainty. And what measures are in force now? Based on data from the Food Safety, Veterinary and Plant Protection Board, a narrowed area of fire impact is currently established, where some preventive recommendations still apply. For residents within the restricted area, vegetables and fruits that have been exposed to fire and have grown to such an extent that they are now suitable for consumption — such as salad, glitter, spinach, strawberries — they are discarded and, if possible, replanted, replaced. Vegetables and fruit that are still growing — such as beans, potatoes, carrots, tomatoes, apples — are normally grown and regular hygiene recommendations apply before use, meaning that fruit and vegetables are thoroughly washed, brushed, if necessary, and thus removed from the soil. For outdoor activities in this area, children should first and foremost be less affected by objects, land, sand and grass. If it is very dusty when moving, such activities should be limited. The same applies to the intensive movement of adults. If necessary, clean the outer surfaces of dust and soil, especially where children are kept — playing, chairs, tables. It is recommended that pets wipe the towel before entering the living rooms with a wet cloth. For the sake of caution, it is recommended to exchange sand in the sandbox for children. So these are measures still in force in the restricted area of influence. People outside the restricted area are no longer subject to precautionary recommendations but only to general hygiene recommendations. Normal hygiene recommendations such as washing hands, cleaning shoes and so on apply to outdoor activities. There are also open questions about the use of the drip, so we also advise on its use in the area outside the restricted area until the results of the analyses are known. Currently, we provide the inhabitants of Vrhnika and the surrounding areas with information on specific issues about the possible consequences of fire, from health issues to gardening to outdoor movement. They have a free phone number and a web address where we accept and answer questions. We have a doctor in the information office and two mobile units. We have also drawn up a plan for the long-term monitoring of health impacts. In the largest area of possible effect of fire after the request of the National Institute of Public Health, we are sampling land and some vegetables, which is no longer intended for the recommendations of the residents of Vrhnika regarding the current impact, but for long-term health impacts. The results will be very important for the long-term monitoring plan of the state or health of the population. We have set up long-term monitoring and advice protocols on the effects on the health of firefighters, members of Civil Protection and other intervention personnel and workers due to exposure to fire. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u36	I give the word "magic." Milos Biszak, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Defence.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u37	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I am obliged to answer the two questions raised by Mr Jurša. In addition, I would add my thoughts and comments. For the first time, if everything was planned in Kemis as prescribed, the Member asked. I must say that our Inspectorate of Natural and Other Accidents has been in Kemis since 29. Five to seven. 6. and carried out a thorough inspection on this issue. In the course of the monitoring, they checked compliance with fire protection regulations and also checked fire regulations, fire plans, evacuation plans from the facility, training of employees, maintenance of fire extinguishing equipment and equipment, maintenance of active fire protection systems, organisation of fire protection and so on. The monitoring did not reveal any violations of the fire protection rules, but the company imposed on it a record of individual measures related to the fact that the company suffered a fire in which part of the facility was destroyed. Certain systems of active fire protection and extinguishing equipment are also destroyed or damaged. In addition, part of the required documentation was destroyed. In this way, Kemis was ordered to create a new fire order that will be adapted to the new situation at the facility and, after its creation, have the task of introducing it to all employees. They have to make the missing parts of the evacuation plan for the parts of the facility because the plans, as we said, were affected or burned in the fire. They must re-establish the management of all records and, following the completion of the rehabilitation of active fire protection systems, carry out the prescribed test and obtain certificates of unmistakable protection. This means that the plans in Kemis were in line with the rules. The second question raised by Mr Jurša – activation of the Civil Protection Headquarters, the role of the regional headquarters, the Civil Protection Staff and the role of the commander of the Civil Protection Service of the Republic of Slovenia. It should be said that the civil protection municipal headquarters activated very quickly, 20 minutes after the event began. The Civil Protection Municipal Staff also coordinated the action and cooperated with the Chief of Intervention. The commander of Civil Protection of the Republic of Slovenia was in constant contact with the commander of the municipal civil protection headquarters and also with the mayor. The mayor also asked for help and it must be said that the Civil Protection Commander ordered that an ecological laboratory with a mobile unit be sent to the site, which then carried out research, with a view to protecting all those involved in the intervention, and this morning he had the results. The commander of the Civil Protection of the Republic of Slovenia also sent a trailer for decontamination, which was prepared and then served to decontaminate the paramedics. Other aid was not requested by the mayor and the Civil Protection Commander. So communication was constant, and I think we have also given the state and the Republic headquarters everything the municipal commander and mayor requested. My comment. When we talk about intervention, however, there is a need to place a distinction between intervention and then rehabilitation. We understand that intervention is terminated at a time when conditions for life are established, which are also defined in the Law on the Protection against Natural and Other Accidents. This means that people are provided with basic goods — food, water, clean water, medicine — when communication pathways are established and it is possible to live normally. On this occasion, however, although you have already praised the work of rescue services, particularly firefighters, who had the primary and most important role and also have completed it in accordance with expert evaluations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u38	There's still magic in the word. Tanja Strniša, State Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Mrs. Strnisha. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u39	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! On the Committee last week we explained the response of the Food Safety, Veterinary and Plant Protection Board, so allow me to summarize it today briefly and then report in particular what has happened in the last week. First of all, I would like to say that, as soon as the next morning following this fire, the Administration immediately initiated activities which, according to the known information, were the most appropriate in accordance with its powers. It has already given instructions to the Regional Office on that day that it must identify all primary producers of vegetables and primary dairy producers in this area and must contact them, describe the crops, especially those marketed, register the sources of water for irrigation, supply of livestock and also take note of the recommendations made by the Civil Protection Office. She also warned them that they had to observe the surface and that where crops or grass would be visiblely contaminated, they would be particularly careful. It then acquired 17, which is one day later from Arsa at the request, also a work map taking soil samples and wind direction in order to properly determine locations for the sampling of feed and crops. She also consulted the Agricultural Institute in this regard. The inspectors carried out field inspections on 17-19 May and talked to the owners and advised them or, I would say, also checked in the sense that animals do not pass on pastures, that they do not feed animals with fresh feed and so on. On 19 May, a special group of the Director-General was also set up to deal with the event properly and the analysis of the land and also to take the samples of both animal and salad feed as well as land in those places where it was produced. And after obtaining data from Ars and other professional institutions on the administration, what pollutants have been identified, they also expanded the monitoring of these pollutants and chemicals in crops. The first samples were taken on 22 May and then on 24 May samples were taken at five different locations for vegetables and feed. At the same time or at the same time, the management also informed the public accordingly. On 26 May, the National Laboratory for Health, Environment and Food also received the missing analyses in salad and grass samples. One sample of grass in the immediate vicinity of the fire revealed an excess value for dioxins in feed. For this reason, the Administration has taken appropriate measures to temporarily prohibit the use of feed for farmed animals — such as the prohibition of grazing, the prohibition of use of hay, the silage which was made after 15 May when the date of fire was the same. It temporarily prohibited the use of grass for feeding and repeated recommendations for vegetables and fruit not to eat. Additional samples were taken on 29 May and analyses were also received for the remaining 4 grass samples on that day. Well, if I say any more about what the analysis showed, the results of which were known since our meeting last Friday. First, as early as 31 May, we received an analysis of the second sample of lettuce and dioxin and all measured values were within the limits. On 2 June, two samples of pollen and one sample of herbs were also taken in the cloud travel area. After that, the administration also received that day an analysis of the land that was taken from the cities as feed. The results for land are assessed in accordance with the Regulation on limit, warning and critical IMIS values for hazardous substances in soil and are below the limits of Austria and Germany. They also received the first milk analysis where the values below the limit are measured. On 5 June, another sample of pollen was collected and an analysis of the second sample of milk was received, where measured values are also below the limit values. However, on 6 June, the management received the results of the sample of grass and hay which were further withdrawn on 30 May. Three samples were taken inside the circle with a radio of a thousand 400 meters around a positive pattern and two outside the circle in the direction of the journey of the cloud. All samples were assessed as consistent, it is considered non-problematic. On the basis of the new facts, the cycle with a ban or restrictions from 1.6 km of radio to 730 m of radio was reduced to around the sample of grass taken, where the first analysis showed an excess value of dioxins and dioxins and PCBs. Within the radius of 730 meters, the area of the sources of pollution of Kemis is also located. The agricultural holdings, which have been issued with inspection decisions concerning restrictions and are no longer part of this restricted area, will be given a decision to lift the restrictions. For agricultural holdings that are in the area of the ban, this narrow circle is 730 metres and the inspection decisions with restrictions remain in force. Within the prohibition area, measures shall apply until the analysis of feed samples confirms compliance with the rules. These analyses will, of course, be possible when another basket is available. In the grasslands within this circle, grazing is still prohibited. It is also prohibited to use feed which has been removed from these surfaces from the period since the fire, so to speak, the whole first basket. This feed will need to be disposed of as waste in accordance with environmental legislation or to demonstrate that it does not contain dioxins. We are waiting for a categorization of waste, it is said how to deal with this feed, which has been contaminated with dioxins. And when we get it from the competent institutions – in particular the National Laboratory for Health, Environment and Food, which is an accredited waste sampling body – we will also give appropriate guidance on how to handle this feed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u40	Dr. Ange Logar has the word. Prepare Mr Primož Hainz and Mr Janko Weber. Here you go, Mr. Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u41	Thank you, Chairman. Today's debate should not be held. It is a mistake to discuss this today. But not because a proposal was made, but because it was necessary. In fact, it should not come to the conclusion that the proposal for an extraordinary meeting on the subject of Kemis should be addressed here in the National Assembly. There is now a somewhat unusual situation when three State Secretaries of the three ministries of the field explained that, in fact, there is nothing wrong with Kemis. This is about as if the Minister of Health at his death explained that he had all the state-of-the-art medical equipment at his disposal. It's a matter that recognizes her. The damage was done and, on the basis of the damage done, it is likely to be necessary to draw some sequences. In the history of Slovenian governments, ministers have resigned because of significantly smaller things than this in connection with Kemis. The Minister of Environment and Space has not even offered to resign. This is extremely unusual for hygiene reasons, objective reasons. Take a little look at the experience of parliamentary democracy, I don't know, for those of you who have been in politics for three years, and see how this goes in other European countries. That's where some roof in the store goes down, and the Minister of Economics resigns. There's been a car accident. The Minister of Transport has resigned. In the introduction, the secretary spoke not of damage, but of disaster. She used the word disaster. So, under the auspices of the minister, there was a disaster; she said herself when she came to the scene, that she had not come before, because she would only be on the road, and then she did not draw any sequence. And in Slovenia people don't trust institutions and don't trust what you used to say that the earth is all right, that the hay is all right, that the salad is all right – just wipe your dog first with a wet cloth from the bottom, top, left, right, just in case – just because no one takes responsibility. You yourself found out that the documents went to the francs, that they were burned. I don't know how this could have happened. I don't know how this could have happened, and then you say that the provisions of these documents were respected, that the fire order was respected, etc. I don't know if this order provides that you can leave the documents by burning them in the event of a fire. How, then, do you determine whether or not you recognize responsibility? Not to mention all the interesting statements that individual political actors have made in this regard. Look, President Cerar said, "the fire in Kemis is an event that cannot happen again." Yeah, how are you gonna do that? How does a constitutional lawyer ensure that there is no more fire in Kemis? I don't know if he's banning it with a constitution. There's a fire. Even more, it was precisely because of this disaster that we were faced with the fact that Director Nanut said non-chalantly that smaller fires were happening all the time in this facility. If they happen all the time, what have the authorities done so far to make it happen? And then the Prime Minister adds: “They cannot explain in the company which substances have been stored. This is a totally unacceptable practice of the company." I agree, but I didn't hear it when it was A and measure B. What are you gonna do? What are you gonna do? You had a starting point in the 4th and 5th decisions proposed by the SDS Group, namely to review the environmental permit for Kemis, and the Minister says here: "We do not agree with this, but withdraw this from the proposal." So the minister, who says he's on his way, obviously doesn't want to be on his way to Gorenje and Kemis to continue operating where he operates. When the President of the Government says, I quote again, “Kemis was a good school”, he really worries me. How many good schools can Slovenians afford before someone acts? The President of the Government did not say, "catastrophe, it is necessary to draw the sequences," he said, "it was a good school", and according to him, the fire in Kemis was a good school for the minister and for everyone else. In other words, the secretary has a second chance. Here. Now it was burning in Kemis, you didn't react well, but I'll give you a second chance. See how many opportunities Slovenia has lost because of other opportunities offered. A whole series in all spheres of public life. And if you come into power with new moral, ethical standards, you have to change that. He can't now because of the disaster that the minister says is a disaster, then get a second chance or be a good school for her. “So far you have not done well, but look, the school year is not over, the exams have not yet been passed, you can continue.” In fact, the President of the Government said at the end of the day that there was nothing to do with Gorenje – the owner of Kemis – that it was not necessary for Director Kemis to be done. Because it's a good school to learn from, obviously, your own experience. But given the dimensions of this disaster, 500 tons of harmful waste burned. [[…]] I don't know if you can imagine that. It would probably be better if we put this quantity here in front of the National Assembly, so that everyone could see at the time of leaving or leaving this house, what numbers or what extent we are talking about, and then actually start to think about what was going on in the air. Not only to the Highlanders, but to all of us, to the Slovenes. And yes, I agree, mistakes have been made throughout the process. If you remember correctly, when this disaster broke out, Mayor Stojan Jakin sat down with Director Kemis Nanuta and finally said, “Look, it’s not so bad, everything is under control, no problem”. For two days, he was a strong supporter of Director Kemis. I don't know what the municipality has from Kemis, but it gets some, I don't know, compensation or whatever, but it looked right, I'm sorry, it's bizarre that the mayor of the municipality where the ecological disaster occurred actually supports the director — the one who caused the disaster. However, after the Supremes had organized themselves and said themselves, "We are satisfied", that is, when the mayor – official policy – did not draw up the appropriate sequences when they organized themselves, when he saw that public opinion was on the other hand, he stood on the other side when he began to fling on the government and point his finger at the government about what it had done wrong. Fast 180-degree transformation. And now there's an interesting discrepancy, I'll put it that way. The civil protection procedure was described very well by colleague Möderndorfer. First of all, I don't know, local Civil Protection, then if it goes beyond the local environment, it asks for national Civil Protection, Republic Civil Protection for assistance, and if it goes beyond that, only the Republic Civil Protection can ask the military for assistance. Apparently, some minor communication was, as the Secretary of State for the Ministry of Defence said, it was. But it was enough, and we don't know that. But now explain it to me. The military, as the Secretary of State has already said, has a special mobile unit, some lab with state-of-the-art technology, tests of all compounds, chemical compositions and so on. Looks like this unit was on the ground. I wonder if the firefighters knew what they were getting into? Did they know what harmful compounds were waiting for them at the scene of the fire? Did they go somewhere like those soldiers in Chernobyl without knowing what would catch them later? Has this modern equipment also been used for appropriate preventive measures to ensure that firefighters have been adequately protected? And if this state-of-the-art technology told us what compounds they were dealing with, then how can the State Secretary at the Ministry of Health say they didn't know what to look for, they just tested for compounds because they didn't know what compounds were in the ground, air, water, plants and so on. Don't you share information with each other? It's an environmental agency. The Directorate for Food Safety, Veterinary and Plant Protection has now said, after media reports, that people outside the restricted area are no longer subject to precautionary recommendations but only to general hygiene recommendations. That's great. So everything's fine. As Director Kemis said, "Time will do its job." So now you convince the surrounding inhabitants that salad is healthy, that, I don't know, plants, vegetables can eat, and that there is no problem that cows that feed, give healthy milk and so on. If that means, I suggest – with a little irony that someone will not misunderstand – that the government proposes a new co-operation because you are doing this, that, on the basis of that action, I like to eat fish at the Ministry of Agriculture, that you take action I eat kemis salad, and that the distributors of the canteen here at the National Assembly at Gregorčič 25 if you have at the Ministry of Environment and Space buy all the quantities of salad and so on from this area. I wonder which of the ministers will eat salad in that cafeteria, and which of the Members will eat such salad here in the National Assembly. And then ask yourself why citizens do not trust the official information you read from the list or list it all along. This is where we come up with this main dilemma – or the Kemis object even belongs in this space. I don't think so. And if anything else, today's debate is necessary to think about it. Just because you tell me how it's possible that a compound of atrazine that hasn't been used for 15 years has been stored in an object that was created eight years ago. It's not working, is it? If it was banned seven years ago, then how is it possible that it was even stored in this facility? So there have been things happening in this facility that are probably already to verify the criminal responsibility of the leaders of these people. And if I return now to that statement that what happened in Kemis must no longer happen, President Cerar, the logical consequence of this statement is that Kemis withdraws from Vrhnike. So to retreat to a location that will have sufficient protection of the natural environment to the inhabitants so that they can live smoothly and normally. Therefore, if what was said in the introductory presentation by SMC Member Krajnc, when he said, “I hope that today’s debate will contribute to achieving higher standards”; if it has been sincere, then you know that achieving higher standards is only possible by withdrawing this factory from the urban environment. And the beginning of this process is to support the amendment that gives back or which brings back the fourth and fifth points of the conclusions of today's debate. Otherwise, it will be just — at least by the coalition, by the government — a public debate to wash responsibility off its shoulders, as the director of Kemis is saying that the rain will wash away the harmful compounds that Kemis has put into the environment, rather than from the natural environment. So, once again, I appeal to the amendment of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u42	Mr Primož Hainz has the floor. Get ready for Dr. Franz Duck and Mag. Matthew Tonin. Here you go, Mr. Hainz.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u43	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Welcome to the government, colleagues and colleagues! Even this accident, which should not have happened of course, was the last time that chemists called a chemical accident, they did not use other terms. They said, “that’s the only way to name this accident”, and I would remain in this formulation. Initially, some representatives of the parliamentary groups expressed the wish that this debate would not be too political or be more reassuring. Of course, I am afraid, and also the current debate has shown that in the National Assembly this matter cannot be depoliticised, because the National Assembly is a political body. And, of course, I'm afraid I won't be able to completely avoid it myself. Indeed, regardless of what people want to calm them down, of course, we must carefully analyse what has happened so that, as we say, this should not happen again. But, of course, I have to say the following in the introduction. Here we see what has been or has not been done and how something will now be organised, but Slovenia has in the past been faced with a series of natural and other disasters. And that's when things worked. It is said that we cannot seek in principle or all the laws now make mistakes, that everything is wrong if they worked somewhere, but they did not work here on the Supreme. That is to say, we also need to slightly rejuvenate this element and look very concrete, what and how it is not done in this case. As for now, of course – because we have to talk about responsibility, it cannot be avoided, if I may say so – there is no doubt in my eyes that, of course, Kemis is the first and most serious responsible entity in my eyes. In fact, for the first time, security was bad; to speak on electronics, on cameras with such extremely toxic substances that protected it is probably superfluous. In addition, they have told themselves that fire extinguishers have been there several times, so to speak, something has happened many times and it would probably be a good protection with a living force if I could say so badly, so concrete people who control 24 hours a day what happens to this waste material would probably be necessary. The second thing I find even worse, of course, is the next. In fact, the factory says they don't know what was burning. I just can't believe it. They had to know what was burning, know exactly where they had something loaded, where it burned, what. And I fear that there is one of the keys to further discussion, what and how. Because if they knew what was burning, then maybe the firefighters wouldn't turn it off with water, but maybe they'd come with foam and then they wouldn't, I'll say, flood this pool that was built, and it was even bigger than the norms that I remember. In short, the water wouldn't flood, the chemical wouldn't go into the Tojnica River and so on. The whole type of thing started because it was simply the director or the management that didn't say what was burning. And of course, what a danger it is for firefighters who came there and put out in good faith a simple fire that was not. This liability will not be disposed of by this company. But it was not just material, it was, of course, the other consequences on people's lives and, of course, the long-term consequences. Another is the question of the congregation. In the congregation, it is perfectly clear who needs to know what is being protected, what is not being protected, how the protection is being arranged. The mayor and the Civil Protection must have these things under control somehow. Indeed, that is, if I may say so, because we had two analyses, if I understand correctly, of two professional organisations that reviewed what was going on in the field, namely ELME and the Institute of Public Health. They've both been giving soothing information. Whether they knew it or not, but on television it was perfectly clear that it was no big deal that there was just something small running into the stream and so on. And of course also on this basis we can understand some reactions that were not energetic enough, even if I may say so, in time. Even with Civil Protection, if I may say so, but good. It is true, however, that in the case of Civil Protection – given that we have a municipal headquarters, we have a regional headquarters, we have a republican headquarters – it seems a bit embarrassing that in 10 days the President of the Government will determine and appoint the Director of Civil Protection for the Head of State, the one who will coordinate, which he should probably have done before or the Commander, excuse me, yes, the Commander of Civil Protection. [[…]] He should probably be doing this at that first stage, but okay, now we can talk about it. What is due to all this happening is that people no longer trust the so-called official bodies that have institutes of analysis, equipment, and therefore, of course, skeptics who appear or who fear that they will also appear in advance will be completely understandable. People simply don't believe anything anymore and, of course, this is a problem in many areas, and even in this case this is a major problem. What should we do? Here I think that the company should really take care – although I am not the first to say this today, but I think that I am one who thinks – that the health of firefighters or all those who have participated in this process of cleaning should really be taken care of, and, of course, also of long-term people. But now somehow we hear, there was one formulation, “the company will repair the damage that will be evident”. How's nature? Some things are evident when it rains and, of course, sort things out in the long run, and it's a little bit harder, but in my opinion, the company shouldn't have avoided its responsibility. What seems to be important is perhaps too little to mention today, but it is here that we are on the edge of the Ljubljana Barja with this location, where it is an enterprise, that there is a park of Ljubljana Barje, that of course this is the edge of Nature 2000 and of course that the Municipality of Vrhnika has created a new identity, for example, which was sometimes an industrial military one, but now it is the identity of the congregation with an extremely high ecological and cultural identity. And of course I think that all those responsible for maintaining this name or, if you want, the direct identities of this place – Sinje Gorica and Vrhnika as a whole – should, however, help. But we are faced with the Supreme not only with Kemis; there are also UNIKUM, including SILICO, they have an extremely powerful military radar that causes its consequences, of course, in the neighbouring Phonolit Borovnica. In short, at a small location on the edge of the bar there are some businesses that provide jobs, of course we are all aware of that, but these places should be helped to get free and unload in some way. And they do experience this, as the Prime Minister says, that nothing like this will happen again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u44	Before we proceed, I give the word mag. Milos Biszak, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Defence.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u45	Thank you very much. I would answer one question, i.e. the doubts expressed by Mr Logar, namely, how we could make an inspection of the documents that have been burned. There will be no misunderstanding – documents that have been subject to inspection have been obtained from various other sources. In fact, these documents are also found in different entities. Thus we obtained an assessment of the threat from the plan of protection and rescue and the fire plan from Vrhnika Municipality. We obtained confirmation of the unmistakable operation of active fire protection from the maintenance and viewers who carried out checks on these devices. The evidence of fire protection and the report that the system was operating have been obtained from the contractor. Then there is the contract to carry out other protection tasks against fire when one copy of the Sina Gorica Fire Company was obtained. So that the plan could be completely reconstructed and the documents burned there in that fire. And another matter that could be said and useful for your behavior; that is, the fire company had and has with Kemis a contract to provide fire safety services. They also had joint exercises, so that firefighters were familiar with the location and, of course, the director was present there at the time of the intervention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u46	The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky, prepare the mag. Matthew Tonin and Mr. Marko Ferluga. Dr. Runczek, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u47	Thank you for your word, chairman. I am listening to this debate, and if I ask myself whether it has surprised me or surprised me — in fact, I am not surprised. Will it surprise me when some kind of freight train composition in Ljubljana gives up a valve, a pair, and we'll have an even bigger problem than this? I won't be surprised. Why doesn't that surprise me? Because in this society and country, let's face it, we have had the last 20 years, I would even hope to say, systematic neglect of this area. I'm listening to this on my way out of the country today. I've been monitoring the beginning of the session. I'm listening to this. After the battle of the vastly clever generals, at the level of executive power everything was great or most things, although unlike firefighters everything else was limping. They knew roughly what was going on and were also partially in danger because of this proximity. Each of us, who looked at that data from 2015, what is stored there, actually grabbed his head. I don't know, but it's more pathetic for me to say what the coalition says, whether it's in some way more pathetic for me. Why? If we go to see magnetograms of just this reference, and if we ask Mr. Restorative, who are eco-terrorists, we will see that in fact in this call of the National Assembly he is sitting before him and he was sitting and partly sitting in the government, if I paraphrasing Mr. Restorative or what he was recommended by the pianists, eco-terrorists who did not actually deal with this issue and did not. What's the key problem now? The key problem is essentially, I'll just say, political-economic and economic. I've got a graph here, and it's what the Youth has gathered from Surs, the growth of dangerous municipal waste. That this growth was highest in 2004-2008 increased by 3.3 times. We know whose government was in power at the time and has since successfully increased to this point by 2.3 times and since the end of the 2014-2015 economic crisis by 1.6 times. When I asked the manufacturer of the PVO, Dr. Hodalič, which list he was running for office, because he also had the right to an active and passive election – where those 928 tons of dangerous substances would go, he was kind of angry and he said, “I am going to be a company that will have this accreditation” and he didn’t even tell me where these dangerous wastes would actually go. If I were to go to watch the amendment of the WCO's board law as it has recently been amended, I could refer to two amendments from the last Janša government, which have been lowering environmental standards, to mention the latest amendment, when in fact the minister was deceiving us to do something about the directive, although in that half of the sentence it said we could do something, but it is not necessarily that we are going in this direction. I could talk about sub-legislative acts when increasing pollution is allowed to reduce the number of degraded areas. These are some facts that we know of, and this is essentially an irresponsible policy. I am a sociologist after all; two years ago Ulrich Beck died on New Year's Eve, who in 86 had already betrayed his most famous work of Risikogesselschaft, with subtitle On his way to another modern. In this famous work, he spoke of, of course, that our societies are becoming more technological and that this also means some socially accepted risk. Of course, as a few of the few remaining writing analysts have already said, a key question is what kind of economy we have and will have. Are we going to have a "schmutzig" within this "Ricogesselschaft", dirty stuff, which actually allows the last novel of the ZVO, which introduces a gap for dirty technologies, or are we going to have something else? If you want metaphorically, are we gonna paint or do robots? And this is essentially an area where politics has been missing the entire line for the past 20 years in Slovenia. I would now like to draw magnetograms of all the Members' groups. The fact is that the environmental issue in this reference to the National Assembly is discussed by my colleague Hanžek, who deals with the investigator, and I am mostly speaking on behalf of our parliamentary group. And then it stops. At some point, we were a little surprised by NSI at the ZVO, but then the little generational Four were in the hall, two against, two abstaining. [[…]] And that's where it stops. A Member who went from SDS to NSa at a meeting shouted at him about farmers crying because Slovenian agriculture cannot be competitive because we do not allow growth hormones. The SDS likes to say that there are administrative obstacles and environmental obstacles and so on. You're not much better in the coalition, but you just wrap it up a little bit. I don't want to attack these secretary of state around this Magne now - the story of that hedge like it's a rug, up and down. This is essentially some kind of mental scheme of this society and essentially irresponsible policy. And now we have consequences. The Minister of Morse prefers to deal with this – because it comes from the so-called Kontiča part of the SD – how now you will drive around Teš the tortures, rather than to deal with the civilian work of one ministry, which is undernourished, slightly neglected and so on. I guess I could use some kind of a remodeling. If we have another President of the Government who is not a decision-maker – this is already clear to us after 3 years – if we have some systems that are neglected, then we have some position that we have. We have more than 200 economic operators producing such hazardous waste in their production. We have 11 companies that are supposed to deal with this. The situation in many of them is mildly alarming, even if you are not some insane obstetrician or naturalist or chemist or chemical technologist, enough is enough. Miha Kordiš asked questions about the story of a company in Škofja Loka, and another example would indicate that things did not really count. As long as you're looking a little bit at the healthy farm of that soda in the sun, you're already pretty clear what time it is, let's say you're smelling a little bit and looking at some acid and stuff. But it's a very strong sector. Let's say, in fact, in the energy sector, as people sometimes like to say, "the garbage mafia" is a very, very strong sector that can somehow exert pressure. What do we get? Now we have a situation where, of course, people — and for a reason — will go crazy at home. We are now likely to experience a series of civil society initiatives that will suddenly start to look a little bit more closely, but what is there on the corner when they sort something up and down. And we're going to have this so-called NIMBY effect – I don't want to have it in my yard – and of course some specific customers will take advantage of it and it will be through the media, and so on, instead of actually asking what we've done for 20 years and how to do some things. For long and wide, what is now the responsibility of a company, whether it is or is not, up and down – since we have a CSO, we have Article 9, paragraph 2, we have Article 27. What are we even talking about? That's what the law says very clearly. That some constitutional lawyer and lawyer of the year and a superintendent and I don't know what Miro Cerar is doing in a way that some aunt says, "Well, it would be a little bit, but it wouldn't be a little bit" Yes, good morning! [[…]] Come on, take a look at the law, and read it, where you can see very clearly where these consequences are actually foreseen. They're probably going to be making excuses now, and the company is going to fail, and there's probably going to be another debate about how much the state's going to have to put in a pot here. But we live in such a society and with such irresponsible policies. There's nothing else I can say. I'm not surprised, either, because when I asked the secretary at the hearing, I knew roughly what time it was. But you know, when someone who is an agronomist says to you, "Yes, well, the wall is on an equal footing, because in a hill the nebula can't" and there could be some other district ministers here, somehow, they are also responsible for us, political parties, whom we are running for some very responsible jobs, if I may put it that way. [[...]] And in fact, there is not one here -- you know, I'm going to end with this -- a crazy difference between a proposaler and a coalition that you're now somehow defending. Even more, the proposer is little in fact on this wave of political trumps, even about as Trump is ecologically oriented. I also always say that we somehow do not choose ourselves, and this is also a reflection on citizens and citizens who may or may not listen to this. And of course, now we have these conclusions here, recommendations where we always fall into some benignity. Regardless of whether any part of the opposition proposes something; this, I will say by the end of the sentence, the crimson coalition then overruns these conclusions and, finally, recommendations: the executive authority should do what the executive authority has to do anyway. And that's a waste of time. I mean, I would, I don't know, read housing legislation now, instead of sitting here, and then we'll back it up, or the coalition won't back it up yet. You know, if this isn't the extreme rejection of the National Assembly, then I really don't know what it is. This session will probably have a few more hours of pathetic, then we'll have a little push around these amendments. I highly doubt the situation will improve. Perhaps, though, someone should have begun to think about another and different and political economy and the economic development model. Not in a way that we're going to do a little "industry revolution 405762", in fact, but this goes to that, you know, smart specialization strategy when I was trying to get laid, and we didn't come anywhere. Be aware of what we're going to do. Be aware, too, if we have some toxic, semi-toxic substances, or you can convert them into something to get some product and we have some chains here closed. But it takes something that, according to Alenka Zupančič Jerdin, is not a natural state. There is a need for an opinion, and this is what is lacking in this byte and in this country, at least in decision-makers. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u48	The word has magic. Matthew Tonin. Get ready for Mr. Marko Ferruga and the mag. Branko Grimes. Here you go, Mr. Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members, good afternoon! I don't think I'm going to say anything new if I say that we are a consumer society and that as a consumer society, we are also creating waste – slightly less dangerous than those that are very dangerous – and that in our society someone has to deal with garbage and that garbage in today's society is a big business. If you look at some landscapes in southern Italy, then you see how these things represent a tough fight for this modern business. I don't see this debate today, or I don't see our task in accusing each other now, who is responsible for something more and who will be more brilliantly describing something, but trying to focus on those tasks and responsibilities that this National Assembly does have. And when a major accident like this happens, let's see if it's a legislative framework and regulations, if they're appropriate. This is what I think is our key task as Members – we must pursue and also stress that we are verifying that the legislative framework is appropriate, so that perhaps we can prevent such an accident in the future by amending legislation. If you look at the world around us, you can find that, for example, aviation is one of those sectors where virtually every disaster is used to further improve safety standards and thus prevent future disasters. And that, I think, should be the main point of today's debate and today's debate. Of course, we are all Members under different impressions. During these days, we were able to receive e - mail, read websites, or watch reports, read newspapers where we could listen to this or those pages. On the one hand, we listen to concerned people who rightly feel threatened and have a number of very specific life problems because of this accident, on the other hand we listen to government institutions that are calm, that everything is O.K. and that things will soon be under control. And here, somewhere among these conflicting facts, we are now obliged to steer and seek answers. If I try to focus on facts that are not a matter of interpretation, but a matter of concrete facts that we have learned through various letters. As far as the Kemis factory is concerned. It is clear from their letter that they bought this area and that they built this factory under all the applicable regulations, placed this factory in a room in accordance with the consent of the local community and eventually obtained an environmental permit for the operation of this factory. Now, if you look at this whole order of things going on here, it is clear that as legislators we have to ask ourselves the following questions. Is there a need to rewind the placement process? Many of these days have claimed that such a factory or facility does not belong in such an environment. But apparently it was possible to place him in such an environment because it was permitted by the regulations and because the congregation and the congregation council agreed. Therefore, in some analyses and in-depth discussions, the first thing to be asked is whether this country has adequate rules for placing in the room for slightly more dangerous objects. That's under one thing to ask. Under two, what is our process of granting environmental permits? Are these procedures correct and taking into account all the dimensions that a factory can bring when it enters space? And three, I think we need to check out fire safety systems in this accident. I am convinced that Kemis has had at least a regulated fire safety on paper in accordance with current legislation. We have also heard from the Secretary of State, and we have also heard from the field that local firefighters and Kemis have regularly trained and practiced fire drills. A very eloquent information is also the one given by one of the TV directors of Kemis when he said that they also have up to two fires a month, which apparently suggests that at least some fire safety had to exist, because otherwise all of these smaller local fires could not have been managed or most likely would have occurred much earlier and perhaps even with greater consequences. I would like to see the conclusion of this debate, in particular in order to verify that the placement procedures are appropriate, secondly, that the procedures for granting environmental licences are appropriate and thirdly, that the rules on fire safety are appropriate. I think that this accident should provide answers or at least try to find answers to these three key questions. At the end of the day, I'd like to go to another very important thing. Crisis communication, which is the responsibility of the Government or the current administration, which in the event of this accident has completely cancelled. People from these parts can say that, for example, in the national assemblies, citizens' representatives of different state institutions even fought each other, gave conflicting information. How, then, should such communication inspire trust? He just can't. And it is clear that in every such disaster, people's confidence in measuring state institutions has been shattered or that people are skeptical of these measurements. And if anything, then the country must urgently improve crisis communication after this accident in a way that state institutions will not oppose each other giving credible information. What still seems important to me is that it is precisely because of this mistrust that citizens have, that these working groups, which are responsible for crisis communication and for providing information, also include citizens and also listen to their wishes to have some independent agencies and institutions included in the measurements. I think it's better to measure and measure something twice than that there's some terrible mistrust among citizens and the feeling that the state is bringing them around. In general, I would say that this will now seem strange to many people that they should act in a very similar way to what they do in Britain in the event of terrorist attacks. When the incident occurs, they first take all the most rigorous and widespread measures. They practically close half of the city, and when they start to see that the thing is smaller, things and measures start to decrease. And even in the case of such natural disasters, when we don't know what the consequences are, when we don't know what can happen, I think that the country should come with an approach to taking all possible measures that exist, even in the sense of evacuation, and then by coming up with new information, it should slowly reduce to normal and manageable levels. Because in any other way, I do not know if it will be possible to build trust between citizens and those who are taking such an intervention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Mr. Marko Ferruga has the floor to prepare himself for the mag. Branko Grimes. Here you go, Mr. Ferruga.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u51	Thank you for your word. Greetings to the Secretary of State and the team! A lot of things have been said. I have to commend Mr Tonin, and his debate has been great to me today. I agree with everything that's been said, very constructive. I think that's the right direction. It would be a shame if these things were quickly politicized and divided into opposition and coalitions. I think what Mr Tonin has said is essential, that we are working together to get the best out of this tragic story. After the battle, they're all generals, that's clear. But my first praise goes clearly back to the firefighters, members of Civil Protection and, of course, the Red Cross — those who were in the first places and did their work as they should. But once and for all it is necessary to say clearly and loudly that the rest of the jobs, I will say, have somehow misplayed their purpose. One is that every fifth of a month you get a salary, and you also have to think proactively and somehow not wait in the office — to think about how you would, if something happened, or if it didn't. I think this whole story is crucial. So the first thing is to calm down the inhabitants of Vrhnika and the surrounding areas. And the other thing is to build some confidence in the competent institutions and authorities to do that these analyses are going to be presented so that people will understand that this data is now true and that everything is okay – both with food, salad and all the vegetables they have in their gardens in that area, both with water and with air. That's essential to me. We've all come to realize that communication has not been very successful, I agree. It was also said at the final stage, and it must also be acknowledged that each individual service, just after it had finished, had worked out in such a way that it proved that they were qualified and that it was good. However, these pro-activeities, some clear coordination and, of course, clear information were lacking. That's the manna we have. Perhaps at just one point, I would refer to the report submitted by the Infrastructure Committee. I was the one most frayed by certain things – and this is where my criticism goes to the National Institute for Public Health, which is one of those which is attached to the state budget mangers – it is written in the report literally: “Disturbed citizens have called on the National Institute for Public Health to act. Since they have not received the appropriate answers and instructions, citizens have organised themselves, and the lack of confidence in the competent institutions and their data has increased to the point where no one believes anyone." That's what he says anyway. Another matter that was said, said the director of Kemis, namely, that he stated: “The unfortunate circumstances of this fire were that it started in an area where we stored less hazardous waste. This area was not covered by an automatic fire extinguisher system because it was not assessed as very risky.” My question is, who did this risk assessment — if they did it themselves or if they did it professionally, because it obviously means that a number of things are wrong, even in such companies dealing with municipal waste. It has already been said that these companies themselves represent a major business and that these municipal wastes, whether toxic or dangerous, grow year after year. It was further stated in this report that the representative of the Inspectorate for Protection against Natural and Other Accidents said that a revised plan for protection and rescue in this company had been made, and stressed that there were no major shortcomings in the plan except for some minor administrative errors – please, what are we joking about? - and that this needs to be complemented. If that's what the inspectorate says, then we'd better lock him up like this. Then there's the next one. An extremely problematic – this was then said in the debate – is the fact that after more than two weeks there are still no results from accurate environmental analyses. Where, according to the statements of the representatives of certain institutions, it is possible to understand that some analyses will only be carried out where, how and which samples will be taken. What else do we need to do to analyze where it's going to be analyzed? I don't understand that anymore. Here are the things that need to be fixed. And another fact. This is also what Mr Tonin mentioned, this letter from Kemis, where, I think, on page 2, the director of the company explicitly wrote: “The problem was in the interpretation of measurements where the state institutions cancelled in the first days after the fire, because they did not establish a body capable of quickly translating numbers into such warnings and instructions that would help and benefit people.” I think there's already a way to get things done here, and there's a way to do that. I hope that we will all learn from this tragic story and that – this is on us – is said to the National Assembly – if, on the basis of that, the proposals of the competent ministry will also change any laws, regulations, regulations or other regulations. That is why I appeal to them, and I also expect them to tell us these activities and proposals in a short time. And yes, I also agree with Mrs Bratušek's words that it is necessary to start thinking that such companies dealing with municipal waste, especially hazardous municipal waste, should be removed from populated areas in general, I will say, relatively safe places, if they can be called that. Once again, I'm saying, this story obviously has no end. This is also shown by today’s event, or the event that took place in Lenart, and I think that we really need to act here. As I understand it, the Ministry is preparing a plan of action. Although I am skeptical, I think that each such event is purely individual and specific and will be difficult to define somehow. However, I agree that it is really necessary to write one protocol where all services, not those already in default, are said as soon as they arrive and are activated, but that it is already being used proactively, says capacity and institutes such as the National Institute for Public Health and all other chemical institutes and so on and so on. So on my part, so much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u52	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grims, prepare for Mrs. Marinka Levicar. Here you go, Mr Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u53	Good-bye to all of you! The first thing anyone should do today is to pay tribute to the firefighters who, in impossible circumstances, carried life and health for sale in order to protect everyone else, and some will regret the lasting consequences. Because someone didn't make sure things were arranged as expected and should be. In this world, they often talk about the great danger that the environment or ecology poses to humans. And there's usually a lot of talk about how global warming is, and that's what billions of people are doing. Do you know what it's really like? But those who talk to you about global warming, which is the worst threat to humanity, when do they say that 300 years ago it was hotter than it is now, and that 2,000 years ago it was even hotter? That there were panthers living in this area, so by the way, the panther is a quarantine coat of arms. Ask the Faculty of Geology a little bit. They'll give you some very interesting information. This does not mean, of course, that what a person does does does does not have an effect, but that that "creature" burns in the sky, which we call the sun, sometimes works a little bit more, sometimes a little less, and the earth always makes up for it and all lives on. And all that about this intense global warming is just marketing, nothing else. To shift attention from serious issues — from the decline of civilization to all other things — one devil to a wall that can't really be a key, far from that. But some of them serve well with it. But some also serve well with what poses a real threat to us, such as collecting and processing inappropriately or storing junk that should never have actually been. The thing that burned on the Supreme is atrazin, you all know it, it's a hormonal disruptor and everyone who inhaled this thing will be able to have very, very serious problems over time. Read the article by Vaneta Gošnik about this. I'd rather not quote him because he reads like a first-class freak. By the way, Vane Gošnik has always been the only real president of the Greens for me, and he will always be in Slovenia, because he is with soul and values there in fact and does not sell fog, as is the sale of most others who consider themselves green. The problem that was present at Vrhnika – but I fear there are many more in Slovenia – is what we call dividing into citizens of the first and second order. If you're a citizen of the First Order, you can just incorrectly store things that you shouldn't have been there for a long time, don't take care of them, you don't have regulated data, you just don't have the things that those who are in urgent need of. If you're a second-class citizen, you inhale that and then you're carrying the consequences. You all know that whoever was up there could be called a red tycoon by many criteria. And if there's anything I'm sure of after what I've listened to in the last few days, it's not the only case in Slovenia. The first thing that needs to be done is actually to have proper control and wherever there is more, these things immediately, but in the only proper way, be removed and then destroyed. Immediately, not over time and it is stored for many years to sooner or later come to light itself or to an accident that then causes irreparable consequences. For the consequences, whatever they were, with all that we heard, of what was there, are incorrigible. We've read about heavy metals and hormonal disruptors. All these things either stay there if they're poorly mobile, as we call it in biology, or they're traveling on watercourses, if they're more mobile, and then they're poisoning an even wider environment. It is therefore necessary to take care of this properly. Why isn't he there? It is a surprise to me that I will not use any other term, but I think it has something to do with that — citizens of the first and second order. If an entrepreneur has a second order – says he is not left-wing to translate into Slovenian – the company will also get 14 inspections per month into the company, I personally know some such cases. However, if someone is a red tycoon, he obviously does not look at what he has, he does not take care of the proper storage or adequate protection, nor of the relevant lists that should be available to those who went to the fire immediately, in order to protect themselves well, and to protect the environment, children, people, everyone living there. And then, as soon as possible, before things that are mobile flush off to other places, they will make sure that they are properly disposed of. All of this was not, but it should be, under the rules in force. There is no need to change any law to do so, only they need to be implemented. And they must be implemented consistently and for all in the same way. Once and for all, it must be concluded that laws apply more to some and fewer to some. To seize a house for EUR 100, someone gets three years in prison for 300 euros of bribes, and someone in the first order washes a billion dollars for terrorists and nothing happens to him for seven years; only everyone turns into silence and celebrates the commission they've earned. This is the real situation in Slovenia, which is non-organic, from such a different point of view. Once we are all equal before the law, when the Constitution is consistently implemented and consistently implemented, this will no longer happen. But what does political science teach? Only one third depends on the text of the legislation and two thirds on the one implementing it. Who has the government, but who knows.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Ms Marinka Levičar has the floor to prepare Mr Danilo Anton Ranc.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u55	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. And a lovely greeting to all present in my name! I'd like to say the following first. When I heard these affected inhabitants of Vrhnika and the surrounding areas about the call of our extraordinary meeting, it was heard that they wanted to not take advantage of these meetings for political purposes, for the benefit of individual political parties. Well, I must say, I am pleased that today's discussions did not go in this direction. I am particularly pleased with Mr Daniel Krivec, who presented the position of the applicants and in this position stressed that the purpose of this meeting has in fact been achieved, that appropriate measures are already being implemented and that they are somehow satisfied that the aim has been achieved. Well, and it seems very important to me, too, because the circumstances and circumstances were such that we could not agree with them at all, and we must certainly condemn and change certain practices. Nice to meet you. [[…]] There was certainly no appropriate coordination. Of course, we should all criticize this first, and even today, you all stressed that communication with the inhabitants was not appropriate, that it was blocked, that it had completely failed. This was finally acknowledged by the President of the Government, who also somehow committed himself to improving this in the future. Well, and it's already getting better with this office they opened on the Supreme. It is only a task that he has somehow assumed that the confidence of the inhabitants will be restored to these institutions, which have made such assessments with such delay and so many interpretations, that it will be difficult to achieve. We have also talked a lot about sites for collecting these hazardous wastes, and I also agree that in the future we really need to examine and determine where these wastes can be stored and how they can also be processed so that there is no similar situation as the inhabitants of Vrhnika and the surrounding areas have experienced. However, I must also point out that I strongly agree with Mr Jani Möderndorfer's debate, which described very well the state of the National Institute for Public Health. What they didn't do, we should do. And I hope that this too will be better in this area in the future, although we do not yet have any special guarantees, and this is indeed essential to change and also to make this institution work differently and also to call those responsible, as Mr Möderndorfer has said, for responsibility and also to take appropriate measures or sanctions against them, whatever we wish to call it. Kemis, even with Kemis, I'd like to stop for a while. It bothers me very much – like most debaters – that they did not tell which waste they store, because in this case it would be much easier to work firefighters, not so much damage, not only on equipment, but also on their health. And more than that, Kemis will have to take responsibility. Not only for material damage, but also for the material damage suffered by firefighters, after all, to the health of firefighters, to the health of firefighters, but also to the damage suffered by the environment’s inhabitants, it’s with these vegetables, livestock, and so on, which should not have eaten those foods. In any case, I also personally expect from Kemis that this damage will indeed be refunded and that there will be no too much difficulty in proving the damage that the surrounding people have suffered on these gardens and livestock that have eaten this food. At the end of the day, I would certainly like to commend firefighters, again firefighters; they have been in the midst of all the natural disasters that have helped to save them, as well as fires and other calamities, of various kinds. For their self-sacrificing work – they also sacrificed their health – I think they do deserve praise, as they have heard from our other colleagues, but I don't think my word here is too much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Mr Danilo Anton Ranc has the word to prepare himself for the Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar. Here you go, Mr. Rance.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u57	Dear Prime Minister, distinguished representatives of ministries, colleagues and fellow Members! Of course, I'm going to put this debate on hold a little differently. There were different opinions. Some debates may also limit us to exaggeration, as if we were awaited by a global flood and that a country has already attacked us with chemical weapons. Of course, other extreme debates also make matters completely simpler – that there was one small fire, that when the first rain came, it would flush away and there would be nothing. I'm always agreeing to some moderate, calm solutions. This time, too, I think the truth is somewhere in the middle of these two extreme positions. Of course, all the respect for firefighters that have been mentioned so many times today. For the last time, Mr State Secretary and I were at a meeting of firefighters where they acquired certain fire extinguishers. So of course all respect for firefighters who have played one of the very important roles here, as have been played throughout our recent Slovenian history. Of course, I can say that they survived all the political suits. But let us not forget their mission. Now, of course, I don't want to neglect the works of firefighters, which are some sort of curative factor when a fire arises. And sometimes I feel that we, too, in the National Assembly, act more like interpreters of some measures when something happens, but sometimes we also forget about, above all, long-term systemic solutions that would in themselves prevent similar disasters, such or otherwise. So I'll try to point this out in the debate somehow. Of course, it does not mean that we have very well - organized firefighters so that we can afford factories that do not have fire protection, so that we do not pay enough attention to such or other dangers that may arise. We must not forget that we are living in a time of global change and that our atmosphere is overheating, greenhouse gas emissions are increasing and glaciers are melting in front of our eyes. And of course, such or other global changes affect our environment. As in mockery, the United States has been giving up the Paris Agreement at this time, which is a bad message to all of us. And we also ask ourselves whether we have done enough not to make this happen; whether we can be small as one country in Slovenia, but with our conduct we can also set a pattern for larger economic powers. So if we don't have a fundamental thought in the philosophy of the attitude towards the environment, it can happen that this is how we will bring our planet to ruin. The modern development of modern technology brings many advantages, but in addition to these advantages, it also has side-effects on the environment. Many of the products that we meet and use every day cause a lot of waste in their production cycle, which must be stored, processed or recycled in some way. So when we talk about recycling and the circular economy, this is the right direction, but in no way do we avoid all waste. That is also the case here with us, and that is probably why we need a company like Kemis. If this company were not, we would have gone 30 years ago, probably many of the waste collected there today would have been in wild municipal landfills across Slovenia. Now, however, a step forward has been taken to collect this in one place and then to divide, add, or then export to other larger collections. So when we're looking at the whole thing, we're doing the right thing. We cannot avoid such companies in Slovenia, which collect, process and recycle these products. Speaking of the location of Kemis. I would say that I know the case in Austria, where one of the largest Austrian cities in the neighbouring country is a recycling and incineration company located in the centre of the city, next to a casino. Modern technological solutions also allow for the installation of such facilities in such an environment as Kemis, but we must not forget that a technology that controls this process of collection, recycling and processing must be introduced, and that internal, external and preventive measures must also be taken, in the event of fires, fire detection and then there would be no accident. I will now turn to the long-term strategic solutions that these wastes produced in such forms as Kemis processes and collects are by-products of some dirty technologies and products. So in Slovenia we have an excellent opportunity to take advantage of our natural resources, which, on the basis of the use of these natural resources and cleaner technologies, would in itself cause these wastes to be non-existent. Let us not forget that the forest is our purest factory, which, based on photosynthesis, hydrogen and oxygen, produces natural wood materials and binds us to carbon dioxide. And with the use of such materials in industry, we have had a long-term impact on the reduction of by-products in energy-depleting industries that we have in Slovenia. This means that if we replace plastic, metal or aluminium with wood, we have done much for our environment because there are no by-products in these productions that would pollute the environment in one way or another. So these are examples and opportunities that we do not take advantage of in Slovenia. Instead, we export wood without added value, we have a bunch of energy-consuming, ecologically controversial technologies that generate waste, which are then collected in objects such as Kemis. And also for this reason, I think that we have made a good move here to adopt the Law on the Management of State Forests, which generates wood-based production as the purest organic production that has no side effects on the environment. Here I see an excellent opportunity from the Ministry of the Environment and, of course, I also expect that together we will implement this law successfully in practice and that 4 million cubic metres of wood that we export abroad, turn home into clean production and thus less pollute the environment. So I think there is, in addition to these operational measures for the control of such establishments as Kemis, of course, important monitoring when issuing environmental protection permits. This is also, of course, the task of the Ministry of the Environment to monitor, and, of course, if it finds that these facilities are not safe for a short period of time and that preventive fire protection is not the same as it should be, appropriate measures. So at this point, I would join the public opinion, so that the ministry's response here could be more efficient, faster, and that one ministry could not wait for another ministry to respond, then there would be a response with a delay of about 10 to 14 days. So for the Kemis event, I wouldn't want this to be some kind of opportunity for political accounting, a lynx of one another. Above all, we need to draw one deeper content from this story: that such installations need to be established to produce in these plants so that 100% can be manageable and that modern fire detection and firefighting systems are so developed today that they can't even resist this catastrophe. However, as far as the long term is concerned, I think that the most important objective is to introduce more environmentally sound and manageable technological procedures for collecting these data, to establish control over environmentally harmful waste collection plants. I think it is our job in Parliament to change the thinking and conditions for creating technologies and products based on our natural resources. I will repeat: forest and wood are our unique opportunity, and I am confident that by activating this potential, we will create new 50,000 jobs and reduce by at least 50% the negative environmental impacts produced today by energy-stricken and environmentally more controversial technologies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u58	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar. Get ready, Mr. Janko Weber. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u59	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Your Honor! Not only the Supremes, including other citizens and citizens, are we not only asking ourselves after the Kemis accident about the behaviour of those responsible for the fire in Kemis, which led to the environmental disaster, but also how safe we are in Slovenia from similar environmental disasters. We have certainly cut our ears with data that Kemis was built on the site or in the Natura 2000 area, where tighter nature conservation conditions apply. We are asked how, in view of the danger posed by Kemis to the environment and to human health, he could at all be authorised to carry out his dangerous activities in this area of collection, processing and disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous waste. The huge fire, in which dangerous carcinogenic wastes were also burning, caused air pollution for the surrounding population, soil pollution and the Tojnica stream, and polluted water poured into Ljubljana. The air was contaminated two days after the fire was extinguished. The impact of pollution on firefighters and others who risked their health to extinguish and clean up the effects of pollution is not yet known. The impact of pollution on children's health and on the most vulnerable and health-threatening people is also unknown. We still do not know how toxic toxins that cause cancer and other dangerous substances will affect the health of people exposed to dangerous substances. Arso reported that pollution was catastrophic for the Tojnica River, a major environmental problem for living creatures in this aquatic environment. Pollution has also reached Ljubljana, where maximum concentration has exceeded the content of atrazine. Contamination concentrations are expected to be much higher at the time of discharge from Kemis to Tojnica and their transfer to Ljubljana. In the wake of this environmental disaster, we cannot go beyond the question of what the mayors and municipal councillors throughout Slovenia, in the past, have planted on behalf of capital their environmental under-informed citizens, as some 210 smaller or larger "Kemis" are to be distributed throughout Slovenia. Most of these ecological time bombs are in the middle of settlements where accidents like those that happened to Vrhničans could occur. It is certainly also an under-responsible attitude towards the environment and to the health of the people of some mayors and other decision makers who, on behalf of the profits, brought dangerous dirty industries close to their fellow citizens. It is the recklessness of the capital and its helpers, which have placed dangerous factories in the middle of settlements – they may even require the highest quality agricultural land – while, in the case of Kemis, it has not been provided with sufficient security in carrying out hazardous activities. Was security sacrificed for profit this time? As many times before, municipal and other decision makers have served capital for the price of pure nature, environment and human health. It is important to follow the articles on how the mayor of Vrhnika and some of the municipal councillors should advocate the arrival of the chemical industry in their environment. However, when a more environmentally-aware citizen came forward with warnings of the danger posed by the dirty industry to the people and the environment, he was to follow the argument that such claims were pointless. However, in the wake of the accident, capital represents a responsibility to people whose environment and health are at risk, and the attitude of the owner of Kemis or CEO of Gorenje Franj Bobinc, who is not supposed to appear at Vrhnika at all at the time of the accident. However, after the accident, some other chemical companies that carry out similar work with hazardous wastes came forward to ensure that they cannot have Kemis; that it is the safest technology that provides a clean and safe environment; that they have a modern high-standard factory; that they are subject to stricter supervision that everything is automated and similar. But something similar was alleged by Kemis and other actors of this business at the time he was posted to Vrhnika. Perhaps we can rely on inspection and other controls, perhaps protecting the population and the environment from similar disasters. Unfortunately, we can see that controls are a bad point in the country. The case of Lafarge and other cases in Slovenia point out that the work of those who should take care of a healthy and safe living environment in Slovenia has not been overly reliable so far. For short - term benefits, money can always be used through the history of our people who are willing to sell their souls, even though it is a matter of destroying a clean, healthy environment for themselves and their neighbors and future generations. As a result of greed, individuals have so far been able to overcome all obstacles to capital. The reports show that even at the time of inspection in 2010, Kemis did not find any infringements of the rules and therefore no inspection measures were imposed on the company. On the other hand, we know that atrazine, a toxic substance that has been banned for two decades, has also been released from Kemis in the fire. How did the Atrazine get to Kemis? Has Slovenia really become a country where the environmental mafia is dumping carcinogenic waste, as some media say? As soon as the fire broke out, the competent inspectorate tried to obtain the necessary documentation to carry out emergency control. As the documentation burned in the fire, Vrhnika was expected to receive the latest threat assessment for Kemis and also a new plan for the protection and rescue of Kemis. At the time of the review of both documents, it was intended to find that they were made in accordance with the rules in force; we have heard something similar today. It is worrying that everything on paper appears to be fine and in practice there has been an environmental accident of major proportions. How is that possible? We expect the answers and the responsibility of those who have made this situation possible, not the sweeping of the problems under the carpet. It's a false dilemma, or a dirty industry or jobs. Jobs are certainly very important, but not at the expense of the polluted environment and not at the expense of human health. Instead of focusing on pure economic activities – tourism, cultural tourism, organic agriculture and the like – for which our country has the ideal conditions in people, nature and rich heritage culture, responsible local policy and state policy has been directing it to dirty and dangerous industries for decades. The dirty industry even imports from abroad, ready to destroy the best agricultural land, cut forests, pollute groundwater and air and give it high subsidies. We hear that we all produce garbage, that it is necessary to store it somewhere and destroy it, which is why we are, in effect, condemned to Kemis in our vicinity. This is not the right answer to the challenges of the future. If we are not able to ensure the safe management of hazardous waste, we will be forced to find different solutions, perhaps to pay a higher price for the removal of waste from the country to the country where they are able to handle hazardous substances properly. It is estimated that the main problem of the environmental accident, or its remediation, is the communication noise and the negligence of municipal and national civil protection in informing the public. I do not think that this is exactly the case, but that this environmental disaster has shown other shortcomings at the municipal and state level. We need to be critical of the behaviour of the highest-ranking civil protection municipality and of the follow-up to civil protection procedures at the state level, which falls under the Ministry of Defence. We need to be critical until the slow response of health institutions that should react immediately in the event of an environmental accident by submitting air, water and land analyses. However, we can commend firefighters and others who have remedied the consequences of the accident, probably for the cost of their health. The most important issues offered in the event of an environmental accident are certainly the question of putting dangerous, dirty industries in Slovenian space, the question of the appropriateness of handling hazardous substances and the issue of controlling time bombs in our environment. It also raises the question of the effectiveness of all those who should protect a healthy living environment for us and for our craftsmen. The fire in Kemis is an opportunity to reflect on the future, on the future economic direction of Slovenia and on measures to limit the chances of similar environmental disasters in the future. I hope that citizens will be given an answer, who is responsible for bringing an environmentally hazardous business closer to people or allowing for reckless management of this business and perhaps even illegal accumulation of prohibited hazardous waste. I want this disaster to contribute to people's environmental awareness. Without the democratisation of our community and without active citizenship, I am afraid that we will face a similar Kemis, such as the archduke, in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber has the floor to prepare Mr Igor Zorčič. Here you go, Mr. Webber.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u61	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! If we look at the Government's response to the request of Members and Members to discuss the fire that took place on 15 May in the Vrhnika area of Kemis, we can see that the moment of fire was, of course, controlled by a large number of fire brigades. A trailer for decontamination from Kranj was also brought in. Emergency medical support units, support services, civil protection headquarters Vrhnika were also present, and the assessment of the on-call inspector at the site of the accident was that firefighters and other security and rescue forces cooperated well and that the intervention was conducted very effectively and that the operation of all intervention services was extremely self-sacrificing. This is the point where we could say that a specific system for managing such complex accidents is well organised. The problem, of course, comes when you find that such a facility or such processing and management of hazardous waste is located very close to the settlement and, in fact, right next to the watercourse. And when you have the pollution of streams and smoke and the measurement of air pollution, soil with toxic substances in front of you, the question is, of course, whether there really was enough effort involved in knowing where and under what conditions such objects can be placed in space. I continue to argue that in the history of independent Slovenia we have adopted one very important act which gives us good support for our decisions to be very coordinated when we talk about the development of Slovenia, namely the decree on the spatial development strategy of Slovenia. In fact, this defines all areas, including cities, somehow in the hierarchy, what is the national importance, what is the regional importance, what infrastructures should then be provided within this system, where larger industrial zones are, where more important economic areas are. And if you respect this starting point, then I'm sure there shouldn't be any placements in the space that happened in the case of Kemis, that this facility is actually located directly near the settlement and the watercourse, Nature 2000 and so on. In this area, more will have to be done than has been done so far. Above all, I think it will be necessary to carry out and prepare very clearly what is finally in the report of the parent working body which addressed this item of the agenda included in the decision, namely that the National Assembly recommends to the Government that it present a national action plan in the event of environmental chemical accidents as soon as possible and to the public. This is one of those shortcomings that has obviously not been created in Slovenia so that we can also manage such difficult accidents. Until one stage, as I said in the introduction, we can say that we have a clean procedure. Apparently, we have a less clean procedure to deal with these consequences. And these consequences are not only visible and present in the health of people, in food, in the environment, but ultimately also in the economy, which, at night or at the moment, is in a situation where it does not really know how to organise its production, that there will be no congestion, because it does not have a controlled removal of, say, hazardous chemical waste. All of this will have to be included in this, but I would prefer to refer to it as a security plan, which, of course, must foresee all of these elements. Even if something breaks down in one location, how to control it in a way that does not lead to contamination, of course, that you also allow the economy to continue to develop. At this point in economic development, I would just like to recall once again the ease and indiscretion of the sale of important Slovenian companies, high-tech companies, because on the list of 15 companies that were easily accepted and sold, the company Fotona, which has excellent top technology and, of course, does not pollute the environment, gives very high value, of course also allows employment of the highest possible education you can get in this area, and this is what Slovenia should also follow. But when we ask ourselves who will earn this sale, of course, this logic and this responsibility, this national economic responsibility will be extinguished at the very moment when cash amounts appear in front of some’s eyes. These are mistakes, which, of course, also have long-term serious remedial consequences, because it is certainly extremely difficult to regain such a company, to re-establish such a company. To this I could add only this or, I would say, above all, this – almost every budget, we are talking about how much money we will spend on science and technology development. Again and again we find that this area has been heavily nourished in the last period. This will result in 10 years from now, when we actually have only one behind us, perhaps largely backward, difficult-to-control technology or just subcontractors to someone else who will provide us with poorer technology with a higher degree of environmental pollution and, of course, with less employability of highly skilled personnel. Without investing in science and development, we will have an increasing number of such problems, and I am sure that this way of managing these hazardous wastes can be solved in a significantly more efficient way, with a much more complex and sophisticated technology than we have in Slovenia, and this must be our goal in this area. I think that there is also an additional amendment to this Decision or to the point of this Recommendation that we are considering today, which speaks of the need to look at all facilities dealing with the processing and storage of hazardous waste, under what conditions have been authorised and whether we can also meet similar cases there. The sooner we act preventively, the smaller the consequences will be. Of course, some resources will also have to be made available to do so so that certain production facilities can also be moved from urban settlements or from areas that pose a severe threat to the environment — potentially or to some extent. But this is the kind of contribution that Slovenia has to give in order to actually control your space and to protect the economy and to protect people. All of these are tasks that will need to be significantly more faced, not only how to sell something out in a short time, to earn money, and then probably to withdraw from Slovenia, so that Slovenia remains problems and what is good goes out. This is unacceptable policy and today's debate largely points to this. So I think that these further procedures in Kemis will, in my opinion, have to go this way in order to get this facility out of there simply. Where to place it – this is the next damage that has occurred; who will be ready to accept such technology in Slovenia. And you should always have that in front of your eyes when you're trying to put something into space on some simplified procedure. And once people's trust is broken, it's very difficult to establish in other locations. But I don't think there will be another solution here, and this is the next most demanding phase ahead of us. And luckily, at least so far, there have been no worse health consequences; let's hope they don't show up in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor to prepare Mrs Iva Dimic. Here you go, Mr. Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u63	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Colleagues, colleagues! The question of fire safety in the event of accidents, as it happened in Vrhnika, has more, I'll say, aspects; we can evaluate them by one or the other. I would limit this debate mainly to two moments, one is the moment that happened before the fire itself, and then the one that happened after the fire. Legislation has also been exposed to the discussion of possible culprits for this fire, solutions to prevent future fires. I think this concerns us the most, given that we are representatives of the people in the National Assembly. And when I wondered a little bit about how the debates had been held over the past period on fire safety, I was kind of aroused by the Fire Protection Act, which was adopted in 2012; then there was talk about the need to debaricate legislation and apparently it was one of the laws that debirocratized, including the Fire Protection Act. This law then introduced certain solutions, and I will not summarize them, but I have found that this may be sufficiently apparent, one opinion of the Council of State on this law, which reads: “The Council of State welcomes the simplification of procedures or the elimination of certain obstacles, including the elimination of the fire consensus of the Management Board of the Republic of Slovenia for protection and resolution, as it agrees with the bill-maker that responsibility for proper compliance with the rules or the proper design of the facility and the implementation of the project must be borne by the responsible designer, contractor and investor.” I will not now judge whether this was the right solution or not, but this investigation in this Kemis facility will also show whether such solutions, which were summarised in the Fire Protection Act, are appropriate or not. There is often debate in the National Assembly about the fact that we have too many rules, that we are a liberalised society, and, on the other hand, when there are some such matters as this, we find that it is not best to leave all matters to certain factors in the environment and that it is right that some things are formalised and regulated by certain rules. I do not agree with this – now there is much debate about inspection controls, but there are too few similar comments. On the other hand, if there was no fire, such inspections would be, for example, a great deal for someone, I would of course have comments that the state is involved in a, I don't know, free economic initiative. In short, it's never the right measure. If I get a little more laid. I also found on the Internet a programme for protection against natural and other disasters and fire protection for the period 2016-2020, namely Vrhnika Municipality, adopted in November 2015. The risk assessment for the planned period, the earthquake threat – as recorded in this programme – and then the risk of an accident with dangerous substances, were recorded as follows: “The risk of an accident with dangerous substances has a downward trend due to the cessation of the activities of the major companies IUV and LIKO, but due to the transport of larger quantities on both roads and railways remains a major risk of this accident.” The debate about whether it's an accident with dangerous substances or a fire or some kind of combination of both together is, of course, in place. However, it comes from this five-year programme, in my opinion, that they were not fully aware of all the dangers they faced in their environment and that some of the warnings raised by some local saints have been completely ignored in the past. Obviously, the debate over the placement of such projects into the space is too subject to some niche after the early recruitment of workers, although there is an excuse here that it is an undertaking that has arisen in the field of certain other companies or a company that collects these hazardous wastes. However, it is important to note that all these responses to both the congregation and, more recently, those laws, which I mentioned earlier, were not appropriate and have come to the point of what we are talking about today. But to avoid this discussion, I will say, these culprits have been sought only in papers, in legislation, perhaps in some inspection services; I personally believe that those responsible should be sought among those who directly deal with these wastes. Specifically, in the case of Kemis, I am sure that the management of this company has not performed its function. We heard on Director Kemis' committee that there was a fire where they didn't count on it. But look, if they didn't count on it, then they didn't do their job. I don't agree with my colleague Logar here either. He's had a bit of a crush on the words of the Prime Minister before, if the fire can't happen. I don't see anything wrong with those words. I don't think a fire can happen in a company like this. Even in, I don't know, a nuclear power plant can't be an accident. Let's leave it whether it can be theoretically possible or not, but if we leave a position to deal with these matters, but it can happen, then I have a feeling that some are not very responsible and we have certainly witnessed it in Kemis. Personally, I can't get rid of the feeling that these accidents happen too often. Yesterday we witnessed an accident in Lutomer. Again it is some waste, again it raises some doubts about it, or some insinuation that may have its own basis, that it is a company that has stored a certain type of waste that must somehow then process ahead, which is a cost for certain companies. And I have a feeling that some doubters who point to the possibility that this isn't just accidents, that they have in this, I'll say, something right. I am confident that the police in this area must make an appropriate effort and also determine the possible guilt of individuals. In short, if I draw a line across today's debate; surely in cases where we are dealing with hazardous waste collection, we need people who are responsible and able to do such things, not those who are looking for holes in the law or who are explaining things in a way that everything has been taken care of, but it has. Because I fear that if such people continue to be in such functions, we will be threatened again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic has the floor to prepare Mr Ivan Škodnik. Here you go, Mrs. Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u65	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear representatives of the Ministry, Government, colleagues and colleagues! My trust and also the trust of the Vrhničans is certainly confused, damaged in the functioning of state institutions. It left some doubt as to what was done, what the time frame was, and, of course, what the results were. Today, too, there has been talk about people simply not trusting anyone anymore and already carrying water on their own to analyze, land, plants and so on, because they want to get some data that will give them some final findings or make sure that if they eat locally or move to a specific place, a certain space will not be exposed to any higher possibilities of any disease or infection, and so on. I don't think the Supremes have gotten that yet. The masters are used to a lot of things. They survived the Vrhnika leather industry. It was a very large pollution for the Vrhnika. I think from those times, I'm sure, even the Supremes themselves say that they still have certain substances in the land that remained and that they simply remain there. They still have, or now, a closed landfill, which has been a practical landfill for this entire Ljubljana-internal pool, which is closed, but when the pressure falls, some gases are still generated when you drive past that landfill. There's still something, I'll say, you feel, but here's where a lot had to happen when you're walking past the Vrchnika. So they're used to a lot of things, and I'm sorry that they've been tested with this case of this Kemis factory, which wasn't some chemical factory, but they were a collection-processing centre for hazardous waste management. I think we might be under-emphasizing this. They didn't produce anything. It should be said that, however, they were under some monitoring, under some supervision. I'm not speaking up now, but I'm talking because I know that if a company has some standards, then these standards are respected. Probably those who worked in some companies, you know, had to put things in suitable containers and store them properly. I think it's important. And of course, they probably took it somewhere. As I have information, there are a thousand 200 clients, they've probably been driving it to them, and they've been storing these things. But I'd like to ask you here: tell me if you have a plan B. This was Plan A. Dangerous wastes were stored in Kemis and sorted and then prepared for shipping abroad, mainly to Austria and Germany. But do we now have a plan B — where are these wastes going from today, from Monday on, or where are they going for the past 14 days? It seems to me that the data collected has been prepared for the disposal of over 20,000 tons of waste in Kemis, that this is the data that actually requires an answer, and now after this unfortunate story. I think it should also be said that as far as the removal of these toxic substances, these collected wastes in Austria are concerned, this did not go just across the border. I think that the representatives of the Ministry must also tell us how long they worked and prepared export licences for the removal of some waste at once. One information is that such permits are being prepared for 30 days. I was informed that after three months they had waited for such permits so that the waste could be taken abroad. At the same time, they also had to conclude an annual contract with the buyer of these wastes and, of course, this is also linked to costs. It would be important, or good, to learn how data are collected, collected, or collected in Kemis. I have information that there is also an IS-waste application since 2013 and in fact it is known exactly how much waste is currently in Slovenia, that it is necessary for people to enter. Also by the representatives of the state institutions or the minister that we do not know at present how many of these wastes are in Slovenia I think that all those who survive and deal with it know that there is control here, and we can just say, “We do not know how much this is.” However, I would like to know how much of this waste is based on the app. I think that it has also been shown, or perhaps it has not been highlighted enough, even what employees inside Kemis could tell how a worker is doing. Now we've all said, "This is a horror, this is a disaster." However, I still think and still believe that some regulated companies have control done and that there has been no such translation of toxins. There was talk about the mob. If this is really about the mob, I just want to know if I can go after the meeting today. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Well, Mr. Ivan Škodnik has the floor. Mrs. Maria Antonija Kovacič should be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Badass.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u67	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, other representatives of the Government, colleagues and fellow Members! Today we have been talking for several hours about this environmental disaster that took place at the Verhnika in Kemis factory. Thank God that such accidents are not so great, because there could be so much more, because in this area, I must say that there is still a great deal to fall. It was mentioned today in the debate that this Kemis was created at a former leather factory. And we know for ourselves that she wasn't friendly to the environment either. And there is something else about such factories in Slovenia. And sometimes it happens that by chance, somewhere in the earth, when they dig up something, they also find a number of substances that are harmful. There was something about Crassus a few years ago. But I am sure that in some places or locations that have been abandoned by different industries that we have had in the past, those responsible there should explore and determine — surely there are still many things in the earth. But we know that such things sometimes cause even worse things. And I hope there aren't any, but we should make sure that there's no such thing as possible. Today, there has been a lot of talk among the different people who have reported that there has been a great deal of uncertainty in this approach, that the company’s management has not been involved or has not been prepared to help put it out and so on. He didn't even know exactly what was stored. So of course there can't be such a thing. And I think that management is what must be clearly defined; if there is no chief responsible, then the deputy, when there is no one, is next, as it is in the military, if anything happens. We can't apologize to each other. However, it cannot be immediately in this matter for all the fault of the Minister of the Environment, who may not have been immediately at the scene of the fire, but who have become involved in other matters. I agree that perhaps some things – communication and so on – did not go as they should, but I think that first of all it is necessary to resolve in the management of the company where this happened. I heard and read in the papers that a few local fires had already happened there. I don't know, they probably covered these things up a little bit, sweeped them under the rug, and didn't talk much about it. It was a clear sign that one day something could happen. Like I said, there were no clear instructions, even cross-references. I have to say again, thank God something worse hasn't happened because I could. Of course, we must thank each other for such a disaster, as always the firefighters, the Civil Protection and everyone else who cooperated. Of course, the people of Vrhnika, who are rightly concerned, need to listen, to help them as much as possible, and to remedy this situation as possible. It will be necessary to ask about the costs. I agree that the factory itself, as such, cannot compensate for all the damage that has been caused. It will be necessary to think and do something about prevention, why such things happen, why we still use them, and when we build materials that are very harmful. However, when compared with the materials of the tax, whatever these taxes are, they should also apply to the environment, but they are about the same. Why am I talking about this? I speak because we are still building with materials that are very dangerous, and then we have a lot of damage in such situations. Why don't we build with wood? A colleague mentioned earlier wood that is friendly to the environment. Today, when they identify investments, why they are not building with wood or why they are increasingly suitable for cement, concrete, plastic and metal, wood is still between 20% and 30% more expensive than investment. If regulated by appropriate taxes, I believe that wood construction would certainly be much cheaper, problems in possible situations, and fires would be much less, much less. We should do more on prevention here, as also said colleague Weber, who I must fully support. Even with that amendment that was discussed today, there are still some things that need to be examined where this could happen, too little can be done. It is likely that more will have to be done for security, namely, those responsible. Just one more thing when I mentioned wood, why wood is good material. The forest also has a life span of thousands of years, which is clearly written down. However, it must be cut at the right time, it must be dried, it must be lifted from the ground, it must not be on the ground, it must be covered and, of course, must be in the airspace. But what's very important – wood doesn't even have to be painted with colors, varnishes, because we know how dangerous they are. The forest is durable if it is covered, colorless, changes only color and is much healthier and friendly to the environment. Of course, we're just going to have to get used to certain things here, and I think we're going to have to change materials, because this is what we're going to do most for the environment and for all those who come after us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacič has the floor to prepare Mr Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u69	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! In the beginning, let me remind you of Mr Jani Möderndorfer's debate and say after school: “Sit down, five!” That's what I sign off on. I could have ended up here, but a few things bother me, and I'll count them. From time to time, statistics provide us with data to generate huge amounts of waste in all households. And of course we have to put these wastes somewhere, process them, take them away or whatever. So it follows that we also need such factories or businesses in our country. And if we already need them, then they need to be organized in such a way that for the environment and for humans and for animals in general, they are safe for nature. As far as my practice is concerned, in small schools they already have safety plans and risk assessment. These are mandatory documents that need to be kept and should not be discussed at all. However, since Kemis is a specific company, this is all the more urgent and necessary for these things to be so regulated as legislation commands. However, I was disturbed by the fact that there was no on-call security officer at the scene, even though we know that it had already been burned several times. Even this news that the paperwork burned down, that's what I think is possible. [[…]] But these documents must be in a fireproof closet. But if that happens, surely there is a copy somewhere in the congregation, where people are responsible for these plans, or I will say, for the execution of these if an accident occurs. So here I immediately suspect who's among the first ones to put him in charge. This is certainly the director; as I was responsible, if anything went wrong with this plan, then I believe that Director Kemisa is the first to be responsible. The next, of course, also assumes responsibility at the municipal level, which is directly the mayor. And it can't be the Minister for Environment and Space that blames all these irregularities. Well, let me get on with it. I was very disappointed by the National Institute for Health, which was in the event of an accident, as has been said, everything was going very well and they cooperated, but I do not think it was so, because there was no evacuation of people during this dense smoke that was falling. [[…]] So I'd end up on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Mahnic has the floor, Mr Tomaž Gantar is preparing. Here you go, Mr. Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u71	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Minister of the Environment, Mr State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence, other guests invited! It is interesting to listen here, but also from all the media in particular to this newly appointed coordination group and also to the Prime Minister of the Government, Dr. Mir Cerar, when he visited Vrhnika and, of course, the places where unfortunately this fire took place, how the whole matter was improved and said that the main problem was communication. In short, there was some kind of communication noise, that communication was in the accident itself, during the accident, and especially after the accident, limping. If this is true – and probably is true, given that everyone is saying that communication was bad – then I am very concerned and do not know what will happen if God does not let any accident occur in major pharmaceuticals or chemical companies, if in this case communication has been so limping and there have been fundamental errors, even before this last fire that broke out in Kemis on Vrhnika. In this case, it is a typical crisis management and management that has not been done as it should have been. At the fire and here we heard all the praises at the expense of firefighters, which of course is also right, for they reacted in a manner that was exemplary and consistent with their instructions. At the time of the intervention, however, it turned out that something was very wrong because the firefighters had literally melted their uniforms, and the pumps were also damaged, which meant that they were aggressive substances. And if the firefighters didn't know it, if it wasn't in the plans, then I wonder who's been keeping it a secret. If there were really so many exercises, if there were plans, if there were any knowledge of what the substances were there, then firefighters would not have intervened with equipment that endangers their health and lives. So this is where one of the main indicators shows that everything wasn't what it was supposed to be. Then it was also heard, and in the media it was that the substances were leaking into the groundwater and into the nearby stream. This was because according to the report, the firefighters were running out of foam and had to be extinguished with water. The question raised here is: Was the fire chief familiar with the plan of protection and rescue for Kemis and similar municipal plans? Were such plans what they should have been, and was the fire chief aware of them? That's another thing. Does it hold the information that Kemis did not have a self-extinguishing system, despite the fact that this was defined in the plans? Then there's another thing. The environmental lab with a mobile unit only arrived at the crash site the next morning. Why, though, if there was a fire, what was the magnitude of the accident? Why didn't this unit come to the fire as soon as it happened to start doing the measurements right away? We've also heard a lot about air pollution. If the air was contaminated, it would have been known and if Kemis hadn't told us what was in the air, we should have found out by monitoring the air, the water and the earth, and not only after listening after a few days, “yes, because children can play, but they can't eat the earth.” So, there was no material in the air, because obviously the air can breathe, but they can't play on the ground. How was the monitoring here? When was he working? Why were the results so late? Again with the indicator that something went terribly wrong. Otherwise, the representative of Kemis should, on the basis of the information he had, at least approximately tell him which dangerous substances are in the air, in the ground, in the water and propose to the municipality the implementation of safeguards and, of course, the use of safeguards. It is also important to draw attention to legislation and this legislation requires that Kemis is responsible for himself. Kemis is responsible for what is happening in the factory, Kemis is responsible for what is happening in his yard and is obliged to act and do everything possible to reduce potential accidents and to conduct disaster management measures. As a result, it is clear that it is Kemis who should repay the damage to the firefighters, not the congregation. Or that grotesque will be even bigger, that citizens can raise their own funds, they organise a golažijade, where they collect 2,3 euros of contributions for a portion of the stew to be used as firefighters. But, ladies and gentlemen, we know the connection between Kemis and Gorenje. We know who's in charge in Gorenje, we know about the joke lobby, and I'm not surprised from this title that the whole case was brought under the Ministry of Defence, led by Minister of Defence Andrej Katič. What are the connections between Andreja Katič and the joke lobby? I don't think I need to talk. And now you have appointed Mr Happy Six as the leader of all things; I hope you have put aside 20,000 euros for constant readiness. Like I said. It does not seem acceptable to me that the congregation is now the one who provides financial resources for fire clothes, for new firefighting equipment, and that firefighters must collect this money themselves. Furthermore, much more surprising is the role of the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia to protect against natural and other disasters. There's been several fires in Kemis. In 2015, the fire was also reported to the relevant services. It was known to be a dangerous substance company. And I wonder what the inspection was doing, because the inspection is the one that should review the plans, whether these accident plans are appropriate and otherwise appropriate to correct them. My question is, was it done? So, in 2015, when the fire occurred, the inspection was with you; you examined the plans whether this was done. On the basis of everything we've seen going on, I'm sure that's not the case. What plans there were, what plans there were, and what plans there should have been. And either all those who are the main actors and the main factors in the event of a fire or any other accident in the Kemis factory were informed of them. Well, given what was going on, they obviously weren't. There's only three options. Whether they were not aware of the plans or were inadequate and informed of the plans. There's no fourth option. And if the inspection was done, as I said before, I wonder what they missed. Because, ladies and gentlemen, every citizen is in a tight spot if he doesn't clear his chimney, and here everything has been going on, just not what needs to be done. Now the price is paid by citizens and citizens, especially the citizens and citizens of the Vrhnika Congregation and, of course, those who exposed their lives when they rushed to help. And that's why I think it's necessary for the matter to be clarified and someone to take responsibility. Yesterday it was burning in Ljutomer, and I think that other than the fact that there will be seminars on the FDV on this case, in defence of the Crisis Management and Disaster Management case, there will be no other epilogue to this story. Another epilogue will not have this story as if Prof. Dr. Marjan Malešič had another two weeks more lectures on how to analyze what went wrong, where it went wrong, what should have been done. However, it will be like the operating mode in this country for virtually everything. Nobody's responsible for any of this. It is therefore important to be aware of this, because Slovenia is too small to be able to play this way and to deal with industrial accidents easily. My question is now how Kemis and his work are now being taken over by Saubermacher and Ekol. [[…]] My question is, have you carried out thorough inspections of these two companies? If not, why not, and especially when will you? In addition, plans for protection and rescue in all hazardous substances companies should be immediately checked. If you are not looking for a responsible one, because the responsibility lies with each other, at least do everything you can to prevent these companies that have taken over from Kemis – I mentioned them earlier, and of course other companies that deal with dangerous substances – avoid any other accidents. I've already said, I can't imagine what would happen if it burned up in some major pharmaceutical or other chemical company. From what we've seen, we can be worried. I can say, however, that all these plans should also be checked immediately and that in all cases intervention services are aware of all the risks and, above all, whether these companies have adequate disaster management plans. It is likely that firefighters, citizens and other citizens are watching us. They're probably thinking, "Now they're ringing the bell." Okay, we're really ringing the bell on this case. However, I think that all Members and Members today have been united in the debate, as well as in the conclusions proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party, that everything must be done in order to avoid such disasters in the future. If you want, you can do it. We need to make monitoring, we need to make some kind of review of everything that's been going on. But most of all, it's at the Department of Natural and Other Disaster Protection. If they're not able to do that, I think we have great people coming from appropriate colleges who don't have a job to do that. Fire third-class bureaucrats and hire first-class bureaucrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Gantar has the floor and then she has spoken for Mrs Irena Majcen, Minister for Environment and Space. Here you go, Mr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u73	Thank you very much, Vice President. Good afternoon, everyone. So, as has already been said, of course hazardous wastes accompany the development of society, every modern society. They're some kind of emergency evil we can't ignore. It's between us and the fact that someone has to deal with them. If they have sometimes been abandoned in nature, luckily this is arranged in a different way today, but in this case it has proved to be inadequate or insufficiently assigned. And I understand that on the one hand, there can be a dilemma where such companies can be set up to store, process or treat such hazardous waste. The problem is, if they're in town, the problem is if they're nature; we practically don't want them anywhere. It is, however, the fact that there must be and, of course, is the greatest responsibility on one side of the municipalities and in connection with the Ministry of Environment and Space; these are the decision-makers who decide where such an object will stand and how it will stand. And if there can be a certain dilemma and a problem here, there should be no dilemma and problem when we talk about the conditions that an undertaking dealing with such hazardous waste must meet, about the security mechanisms that must be met if you consider such data, about the control arrangements, and not least about effective disaster response plans, which are inevitable in any case. Of course, taking into account all these safety and other principles of these accidents could be less. Treatment, management of hazardous waste should in some way be of particular social importance. Binding, of course, or even in jurisdiction or to a greater extent in the hands of the State than the market. Indeed, the market is one that requires a certain degree of competitiveness in a particular area. Competitiveness is the one that forces the operator to cost efficiency to save. Finally, there are always private owners in the background who want some of the profits from this title. Where is it easier to save than when it comes to security, with appropriate safety mechanisms, I don't know, self-extinguishing, sensors, direct protection and so on? All of this costs and, of course, profits are accordingly lower if they are not. Therefore, it is all the more important that legislation is appropriate to do so strictly, rigorously and that it is also rigorous to control, which is probably not the case. The management of hazardous waste is undoubtedly a very good business. Needed, but still a very good deal. If we are going to take responsibility, it is also my opinion that the biggest responsibility in this story is, of course, to Kemis alone. And I find it hard to believe that it is a case or whatever that we are looking at, that we simply do not have the many data that we should have – why this accident actually occurred, where the immediate reasons were, what the direct measures were, and why it was not clear, at least not to the general public, what was burning. The excuses in the sense that a burned computer, of course, do not drink water. And I don't think they really do. Above all, I think that it was also Kemis who should first inform about the dimensions of danger, even if someone else did not realize it. So, not to think that the fire will go under the carpet in the form of a normal fire and a fire as it happens, I don't know, on a haystack, a mower or some non-hazardous object, but that it actually went here, which of course is evidence of today's facts. And since the first warning was not clear and clear, it was likely that the conduct of all the competent services, let us say, honey or uncoordinated and uncoordinated. I am sure that these services would have done slightly differently if the first night a clear signal had come from the company, “games for a dangerous accident, take it seriously, there would have been consequences”, and other services should have responded accordingly. I can agree with the President of the Government that the response of all these services was inappropriate, uncoordinated, poor. However, I find it difficult to agree that the biggest problem here was practically the Ministry of Environment and Space. Well, the claim seems to me to be at least incorrect. The Ministry of Environment and Space certainly plays a major role in putting such a facility into space and, of course, plays its role for some time after such an accident, when all the results of the investigations, analyses of the land and everything else are known, where they must act in accordance with the protection of the population. But direct action is in the hands of others and here the excuse for laboratory analysis and results of course cannot be in place. In fact, if we know that something dangerous was burning, of course, the first is probably in the interest of human health, even if we go into measures in the sense of not eating vegetables, do not move out in the open, children should not go out; this must probably be said at that point, even if there are no results. No one's gonna get sick because he'll be careful for a week before the results come. However, he will be able to get sick if he waits for results that may be similar or different. And here, of course, the jobs of course did not play their part, let it be food, let it be about the environment, about the grass, about the sink, about the movement of nature, whatever we want to take. And, of course, I agree and will also support most of the proposals proposed, given that it is imperative to take certain measures and learn something from this experience. Above all, I am disturbed by the measures proposed to address the environment and space in particular, given that we must be aware that this is a matter of action, once again, many services – from health to agriculture, to civil protection – should be at the local, regional, state level, wherever, to the control of inspection services. So there's a whole bunch of jobs here that probably didn't work out the way they should. And now to find a common denominator in a single ministry, which, right when the fire occurs, plays its part, probably doesn't make sense. It's not in place either. And it also has neither leverage nor measures to solve the problem at that time. I used to. And later, yes. Not at the time. And luckily, as it is said, the firefighters played a good role, either risking their health or whatever and doing their job conscientiously and thoroughly, as they always do. But that's not a good comfort. Today, there was another great fire, including apparently dangerous substances. The question of what kind of school was ahead, I don't know, ten, 14 days, how we're going to do now. So there is no doubt that I would expect action and review of the laws and regulations and of course their implementation in many areas, but not only in the area of the environment and space as is sought and proposed in this work. Above all, I hope that the results of these analyses will be such that the health of these people will in fact not be compromised in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Irena Majcen has the floor. Here you go. Get Mrs. Vojka Shergan ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u75	Thank you. In my performance as Minister of Environment and Space, I do not draw the conclusions of the Government, so I would like to focus in my response on some of the operators who have looked at the Ministry of Environment and Space. One of the topics discussed here today is that environmental standards have been reduced in recent years and now even in times of government. I have to say, of course, that's not the case. That's not true. Right at the time of the Government, we have transposed a number of European Union directives relating to the environment – the IED Directive and BAT conclusions are the most important for my orientation. After all, the delay has taken many years, many years, and now they have been transferred. I would also like to say that, as a result of the transposition of these Directives, in fact, all companies with existing environmental permits are complemented by new environmental permits. In my implementation, when I was reading the recommendations of the material manufacturer, I noticed the name environmental disaster. This title alone or I do not use this term alone, I am talking about an environmental accident, and the amendment adopted by the Committee was the same. To me, it does not seem right — the preparers or the party who prepared this opinion. A lot of things, we all do in terms of making mistakes, but I'm sure the contractor himself knew that I didn't use this title alone, but that it was a summary of the title of the material, and the government of course didn't change the title of the material. It is also very right to talk about the journey. True, I said I was on my way when the fire was done. When work was done on the watercourse, it is really totally inappropriate in terms of events to appear in an explanation of what this accident means for human health. I am convinced that in our country we have truly competent institutions, there are top experts, have sufficient capacity and undisputed educational and other experiences that can provide this, and the Ministry of Environment and Space is obliged in such cases to take care in particular to determine what environmental damage is. And unfortunately, in this case, there was also direct damage to the watercourse. Why don't firefighters look at themselves in the execution of fire extinguishers or give too little attention to not polluting watercourses, of course it's not right to debate here now, but it's the job of our ministry and our ministry will also assess this environmental damage and impose it on the owner of the company to be rehabilitated. I would like to say that, of course, the direct responsibility of the congregation or the congregation is to adopt the UNO. However, when placing in a space where we want some facilities to stay away from residential facilities, we would like it to be the other way around – that such objects, which are somewhat remote, are placed by means of innovations or changes to the municipal spatial plan, are housed by housing facilities, individual houses. And this is really nothing new, because this problem of putting into space has been following us for many, many years. I would somehow join the debater who mentioned the Fire Protection Act and that Mr Hojs, the then Minister, had somehow withdrawn the consent of the Protection and Rescue Board. I also believe that, in the issue of a building permit, such an agreement is such, such a review of the documentation made on the market by the selected manufacturer, that it is good for a person from the Protection and Rescue Board to review such a document and to agree, but the question is whether it will ever be reintroduced into legislation or not. Of course I can't imagine. As regards the current state of waste collection, the situation is, of course, such that Kemis alone cannot handle the processing of hazardous waste. How is hazardous waste monitored? Dangerous waste is monitored through codes; we are not talking about waste to someone as expected in some cases. It's like herbicides or something. And there were nine devices in the company itself, these are IED devices, on which these hazardous wastes were then prepared for further treatment and most of these wastes were exported. Since these hazardous wastes are very much monitored through exports, they have many permits, it is currently a problem, and this is how to process these export licences so that they can be obtained more quickly. As already mentioned here today, this time is up to two months. We have also intensified this preparation and work through or with the help of companies and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, and already next week we have a meeting where we would then try at least for those companies with larger amounts of waste to draw up export consents. However, it is a fact that in Slovenia there are many wastes that are in smaller quantities, where it has already been finished, the processing of these wastes has been done on facilities in Kemis and has, of course, been acquired as a new component for export authorisation as well as a new code. And for these kinds of waste, we're still dealing with problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Mrs Vojka Shergan has the floor to prepare Mr Jože Tanko. Here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u77	Thank you for your word. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! In fact, the case of Kemis shows that, on the one hand, the economy is very successful today, and on the other hand, we see that it will need to be especially in companies where the fire can, I will say, quickly erupt and that this is a problem, it seems to me that this will somehow be a new challenge for these environmental problems. And here, of course, I will have to say, review a whole range of procedures and legislation, protocols. And through all these researches, which some of you are aware, through the debate here today, that they will happen, of course, there will be a need to look carefully at what is what can further improve this environmental security. Of course, it must also be taken into account that, on the other hand, it is necessary to address this problem in some way and that there is no excessive regulation due to these negative phenomena that occur in companies. For this negative stigmatization and the search for sinful goats, on the other hand, can be very dangerous, so that nothing should happen on the other hand. And we must also bear in mind that it is necessary to realise that these are the wastes that we are causing and that these wastes must also be managed wisely, that all measures must be taken to help avoid, or indeed minimise, such disasters in the future. From this point of view, there will be a real need for transparent business, careful monitoring and consistent compliance with these criteria and protocols, which are set up to protect the environment. Better and clearer regulation will also help to ensure that these companies operating in this area are then also transparent. The serious challenge for the protection of the environment and people will also be that somehow all of us living in this environment must be fully responsible and also protect this environment in which we live, but not only with words and not only on paper, but also do so. It also seems very important to me that this communication, which has proved to be in some way the extinguishing of firefighters and this first intervention has been very successful, on the other hand, this poor communication has been shown, and I think that here too, of course, you will work, I am sure, that the protocols will improve – the mode of intervention and everything – but on the other hand, this relationship of people, what must be done, sometimes depends not only on what is written, but also this personal relationship to the problem that arises, is very important, and this thinking of each individual, how to approach this information and to do it as much as possible, that it is done then. [[…]] [[…]] Because further, even if we approach the circular economy, we will face again and again that everyone will have to take care of their garbage, so that our garbage will not actually end up in the neighbor's yard, but that everyone in their environment will also have to take care of the safe destruction of these garbage. I am saying this because this level of consciousness and knowledge will actually have to be lifted from this side as well. So it seems to me that such an accident, which unfortunately happened, is also a warning. Of course, it is necessary to do the utmost in this environment to ensure that people are safe in these areas, and even in the future, it would not hurt to give people some general guidance on what to do in general in the event of an accident, what that first measure is. I, who is a slightly older generation, remember that in some other times we talked about some other accidents, but we said, such measures and such measures are necessary in the event of certain accidents. And that seems to me, this warning on some level that it can also lead to some self-protection when such an accident occurs. Although it must be done that such an accident will never happen again. That's what I'd have for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, let me read three more names that will then follow, so that we can monitor the events more easily. According to the proposaler, we will give the floor to Mr Bojan Pod oblast, then Mag. To Bojan Krajnc and to Mr. Jožet Tank. Mr. Daniel Krivec, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u79	Thank you for your word. I must say that I am pleased today's debate, because most of those who have debated have in some way made this very reference to an extraordinary meeting, and I am also very pleased that we obviously have for the first time in this mandate a team from the Government, which is in some way willing to participate, responds and explains certain things, so that I think that most of the purpose of this meeting is still real. It was also said earlier that in the introduction I had already pointed out that, with the reference to the meeting, perhaps some things in this area have been moved from that path of position, so that I am satisfied with this aspect. As I said, all discussions go in the direction of supporting our proposals for recommendations. All of you note in the same way that there are certain problems that need to be resolved through measures – whether it is in the legislative field or whether it is in the field of some logistical monitoring of individual accidents and so on. So from this point of view, that's fine. But I also responded to the Minister, who was explaining some things, but I have to correct you about the natural disaster. As a proposal for today's session, I did not use this word once, because I respected what was proposed on the working body and what was also a warning from the Legal and Legislative Service that this dictatorship was not being used, so the amendments were accepted and I must say that I strictly adhered to the fact that I am not using this natural disaster and I have been constantly talking about the natural disaster. So please don't talk about that because we wrote it in some material, you're saying it because there's no need, and I've avoided it and I haven't used it. The other thing I've responded to is that you're again, I'm not going to say deceiving, but maybe awkwardly explaining who actually has a scissors and a canvas in place. You said, “we can also place these dangerous objects outside the settlements”, which you obviously think is also acceptable and probably most people, but then you said, “then a local community through the ODP approaches the settlement to this facility”. I'd really like to ask that we don't say things that don't hold. You know that for every municipal spatial plan that goes through public debate through all procedures at local level, there will be consensus among all the ministries. And if the ministries don't make any changes, this approach to an object that's protected by a corridor is not possible. The congregation can literally throw eyelashes, it cannot be enforced, and let us therefore stop talking about their scissors and canvas, in quotation marks, mayors, municipalities and so on. Where municipal spatial plans are adopted, the final word is by the competent authorities, agencies and so on. If there is no hook, the spatial plan is not adopted and not valid. And ministries have the opportunity to influence this all the time, and if there is a suitable location for such a landfill, there is no danger — as you wanted to reverse the matter — that a settlement would approach it if your services did not allow it. So please, not in advance with this, I'd say, deceiving.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u80	Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor to prepare for the mag. Bojan Krajnc and Mr. Jože Tanko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u81	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Honourable Minister, all representatives of the Government, colleague and colleague! I also have to point out that it is positive to me that you representatives of the government are present at this very important meeting for me all the time. Of course, I sincerely wish that this meeting did not have to be held in this National Assembly. When we proposed this extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly in the Slovenian Democratic Party, I was on my own on the parental committee, where we discussed this point, and I think we have made one great step forward today. To be able to listen to each other, both on the left and on the right, and to a greater extent to the Government’s representatives, as I mentioned earlier. Let me, of course, start at the end and also stop at these amendments, which we will certainly all be talking about today and we will be voting about them together. I think there is no longer any doubt that this is certainly one of the biggest environmental, environmental disasters in the Republic of Slovenia; this is what I said this morning when I presented the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. The big question is when we are talking about verifying the environmental consensus that the company has received, but of course all those who deal with a similar sector in the Republic of Slovenia. I think that there should be no concerns between us, and I also appeal to all Members of this Parliament and Members of this Assembly to find common points here, and these two amendments, which, of course, will be proposed, also support each other. There's always a question in the air regarding the findings of the fire inspector. The question is, how is it possible that there was a fire in this company? Of course, there is always the question of whether Kemis has violated fire regulations or if this fire safety has been overly volatile. I'm not an expert at saying that, but you know, if this happened in a community company that's been dealing with this industry for 30, 40 or 50 years, I'd have a little less concern. But when this happens in a company, which is owned by someone who deals solely with another industry, of course I can assure you that I have concerns here. Once again, I am not an expert to judge, but I will certainly stand by and support these environmental standards to be checked again – not only for this company, but for similar companies in the Republic of Slovenia dealing with similar production of these hazardous wastes by collecting hazardous waste. Many times in Slovenia there is an environment, especially the people of that environment condemning because they do not allow one particular place to enter this place, I will say, most of the time positive production. Of course, many times these people have concerns. With this case in Vrhnika and this fire in Kemis, these doubts will, of course, increase dramatically. Look, people live in the environment for 10, 20, 30 years, one 60, 70, one even more, and I think they always have the right to know what someone's putting in their environment, where they live, of course, especially in the immediate vicinity of their housing units, whether it's a house or it's a block. Throughout the day, we talked about the fact that information and coordination after the accident was always bad. Dear Minister, for the last time – not on this subject, on one committee – said, “we do not always condemn you, but we expect you” – Minister-designate, I will now say that everyone understands when they listen, “but we will draw someone’s ears, who has not done his job”. Today we are talking about all the services we have in the Republic of Slovenia that are paid; every hour they are paid. A colleague from the Modern Center Party mentioned someone earlier. I will not repeat myself now, but all the parliamentary groups today find that they have mostly been denied at all points, of course, by the representatives of the Government. I don't know. There's not so much courage in you as a reputable minister that you wouldn't have to judge someone. [[…]] That we will be in the next accident – I want it not to happen soon, but we have heard all day today that two accidents have occurred this week – better that people do not wander left and right look for a question where they cannot get it or get answers to the wrong questions. And what is the epilogue of all this? Three weeks of events at the Vrhnika that people even less trust institutions, which they as a result pay from the taxpayer's money. I'm always agreeing that we don't always judge everyone that they're all guilty. There were over 250 firefighters involved. I'm pretty sure those firefighters were most of the volunteers. Many fires have already involved these firefighters, and I've never heard of any of the firefighters in the intervention. That the fireman burned down the entire facility. And they're volunteers. I said this morning that they certainly didn't know where they were going and what they were going to put out between those walls of Kemis. And this task, we've all identified today, and also the profession, they've done it with excellence. But everything that happened after the intervention, and things don't go to waste, according to your own words. Therefore, for God's sake, the Honourable Minister, the Secretary of State and the representatives of the Government, let us once say: "On this segment this one has failed." And he probably can't do this job anymore. Not that I have to lose my job — because the system doesn't work! As long as this happens, when we all remain silent or remain silent, Comrade Logar said before, "Minister, something will have to be done". [[...]] We expect you to make it clear to all of us who are sitting in the National Assembly and to the inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia who have failed in this area. That it was necessary to convene this extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly and to determine all Members and Members today, all representatives of the Group of Members, that the matter did not work. I think it's irresponsible for people who live in Vrhnika. Tomorrow will probably happen somewhere else. We won't talk about the Supreme anymore. But I appeal once again, and I will only support that those standards that these companies once received, let's go check again. Not because we want it in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Because this is important for people living in this country who have close to such productions that collect very dangerous waste. Once again, when I conclude, if it happens in one company that has been involved in this for decades, I have little less concern myself. But when I run into a company whose owner is someone who deals with a whole other business, I have bigger concerns here. And also on the board, we have heard several times that in this company, Kemis at Vrhnika has already been burned several times, but the smoke was probably not high enough to come to the National Assembly. Even a fellow Member from Maribor said that the same owner was also burned by the company in Maribor. I don't know, two years ago or three. Same owner. And I don't think we should be so irresponsible as to close our eyes and not accept today's recommendations that these things should be re-examined. Because this is about people who live by these facilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u82	The word has a master [[…]] Procedurally, Mr. Franz Jurša. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u83	Vice President, thank you for your word. In principle, I also agree with the fact that it is necessary to say clearly and loudly who did not do what was to be done in the matter of the accident in Kemis. It is also another fact that some of the debaters on this page have specifically said who is the one who has not done something and also asked the representatives of the ministry whether errors have been made at local level, whether errors have been made at regional level, or whether mistakes have been made at national level. It is good for us Members to make our assessment, too, if there is no general assessment, of whom we think he has made a mistake. And we say that because it's easy and easy to talk about that some institutions are plural; then we'll never come to concrete conclusions. And, Vice-President, of course, I will also give this procedural issue so that it would be very good if you who run this meeting would also alert the debaters to this. But I know it's hard. I know how we talk. But I would still like it to be heard in concrete terms and not to be accused in general.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u84	Procedurally, Mr. Podkoršek. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u85	Yes, Mr Vice President, thank you for the floor. Since this must have touched me because I was discussing it in front of Mr Jurša Mr Jurša, I do not know where you are aiming, I did not personally attack your Minister. [[advertising from the hall]] I don't think that's funny right now. I didn't attack your secretary. I know you've just stepped in her defense. But I was a large part of this room today, and I also listened to you, all the representatives of all the parliamentary groups. I listened very carefully. If you expect us to be judges at this point, I will say that in some segment I agree. But, Mr Jurša, see, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we have already pointed out hundreds of times in this mandate to certain people, to certain representatives, to your ministers, to the President of the Government, and nothing has happened. I am pleased that the Slovenian Democratic Party has been the trigger for this meeting. Not because I don't think anyone's going to tell us today that it's politically desirable. Because this is absolutely necessary! And we've all figured out today that there's something wrong with the system, by the way. And we expect your minister to be working professionally to tell us who's been missing in this area. Name, surname or institution. That's all I expect. I'm not a minister. I'm an MP. But I do know that things don't get spilt here by people who get paid each day for their territory. The firefighters who work voluntarily intervened with a medal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u86	We've got another procedure. Dr. Franz Runk, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u87	Yes, thank you for your word, chairman. It is more than obvious that both Members have abused procedurally, so please, this is my procedural proposal for you to conduct the meeting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. However, if I have already come up with My second procedural proposal – since my ancestors are the beginnings of the fire barrier in Slovenia, given that for a while I was the youngest firefighter in a voluntary firefighter society – is to stop climbing in the buttocks of firefighters; because, finally, where were you when we were discussing professional pensions, where we were when we were discussing the problems of volunteer firefighters. [[…]] Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u88	Thank you, Dr. Runk. I'll take your first procedure. I agree with you, I only allowed – given that the two of you have stopped by – to come to the same conclusion as you have. So let's get back to work. The word has magic. Bojan Krajnc, get Mr. Jože Tanko ready. Mr. Krajnc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u89	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. As this is generally a matter of parliamentary communication, and since communication has been mentioned several times today, I will also, at the outset, again, I do not know how many times already, turn to it. I remember the day I found out about this accident; on the radio it was thanks to God first of all how people should act, that of course they should stay indoors. So, as far as communication is concerned – when we talk about those first outbreaks of the fire, and I believe that this situation was also in the field led by the Civil Protection of Vrhnika – everything was fine in the first hours. Of course, we are facing a communication gap after the fire was extinguished and until the day last week, when this interdepartmental coordination working group under the leadership of Mr Šestan was established. And then again we see some improvement in communication and, of course, we hope that it will continue to do so or that it will continue to do so. In view of this communication, it has been most important for us that the Committee has adopted a supplement to point 1 of the Recommendation regarding the fact that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia recommends to the Government, as soon as possible, to present a national environmental and chemical accident management plan, which will include clear guidance on communication and coordination in the event of accidents that have a greater potential for environmental and human health impacts. The argument for this stems from the debate by colleague Möderndorfer on the Committee and also here today. As far as responsibility is concerned; I agree, and I myself have said this in the debate on the committee that Kemis and those responsible at Kemis will not be able to pass with the owner. In fact, this was already announced by Mr Director when he said that Kemis did not avoid any responsibility. While there was some relativisation in the debate of the Director-General on the Committee, which I have already pointed out on the Committee and was also mentioned here today, in terms of what is now the environmental damage caused by the fire and what is the damage that has been done on Vrhnika since before, we know and have been aware that Vrhnika was already burdened by industry. All of this is something that we cannot figure out in the National Assembly on our own, and this will be a matter of future procedures. Nevertheless, I would have some questions for those present here in the Chamber regarding the fire safety and responsibility of the company, as Mr Bizjak said that the fire inspectorate had been in the factory and examined the fulfilment of all the legal and other conditions and that he had not found any irregularities, I cannot get rid of the impression, as some of my colleagues here, that with fire safety perhaps everything was not as it should have been or, I will say otherwise, that it could have been on a higher level even if it had been in accordance with the legislation. You just can't imagine that in a chemical plant like this, which has, I imagine, a large part of its production or a plant covered with automatic extinguishing devices, some part of the non-hazardous waste is not equipped with this. This would be the standard that this establishment and this owner could afford, given that the reports show that they were doing very well. And if I want to do something for myself and expect it to do so, if possible, if the conditions are met, there will be some higher standards that we have already set out in the SMC in the presentation of the position. So we need higher environmental standards. In order not to be all right with fire safety, I was told to read yesterday's Work, either a contribution or an interview with Mrs Dodič Fikfak – they will now first examine the firefighters if their health is all right – which, on the basis of the firefighters' story, expressed doubts about the appropriate fire-fighting measures in the company and it seems unheard that Kemis did not take the smaller fires seriously. Neither I nor she are an expert in fire safety, but today many of us have wondered if there could be fire safety in a company at a higher level, so this is a question that is likely to be explored in further investigations into the causes of fire, which we still do not know what the cause is. The question I mentioned also relates to the same interview. Mrs Dodič Fikfak said that the competent services should measure dust particles less than 10 microns. We know that 10-micron or larger measurements of nano- and organic solvents were made no later than the second day after the fire. So the question is whether it was done and why it wasn't. Secondly, of course, what we have heard many times has been critical of the National Institute for Public Health, which, in its view, has not done its job. We probably don't have to do this more than once. When we heard. But we need to take some time to discuss the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u90	Mr. Jože Tanko, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u91	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, I must say that such constructive debates as today in the National Assembly in dealing with this environmental disaster, I would like more than once. There have been many, and I think that both coalition Members and government representatives have taken a very positive approach to this issue, and on the basis of such discussions and participations and cooperation, things can move forward. If we stand up as we have before – but always our priorities against the proposed topic and we challenge it – then what progress, what good content and solutions there can be, because there is no condition for it. But in this case, I see that the interest, in some way, is to make things better, and that, even in such problems that arise, it would be different to approach them. I think that some of you, including the coalition Members, have taken a very harsh position on some of the things that happened in this accident or after this accident. We need to find out in some way, and I also agree with you that some parts have not been properly carried out, have not been properly implemented and so on. In short, I think the problem is that it doesn't know or that it doesn't tell you in time what was actually burning. If the CEO says he doesn't know what's burning or doesn't know what he's got in this firm and so on, then that's a capital problem. Everyone who was the CEO knows what his production program is, knows who his key suppliers are, knows what they're supplying him, knows what he's got in the warehouse and where he keeps it. You can't count a director who can't handle it. This must also be known by every minister — which department has, which things he has in processing, which he will intervene, and how he will proceed. That goes for everyone. This is a general norm, and I must say that I am extremely surprised that the director of this company is a person who knew virtually nothing in the first days. Nothing. I also have to be very surprised because they didn't know anything about it even by proper inspection. In particular, those who monitor the correct functioning of such an environmentally burdensome facility should know virtually everything about this company. What it has, where it has, how it has, how to act in the event of an accident, how the intervention is carried out and so on. As well as all support systems that are part of the environmental disaster protection system, they must be adequately trained and also adequately equipped. And here we would also need answers as to whether those who came to this intervention were adequately trained and also adequately equipped. Based on the information we have, that's probably not the case. Such a facility, which has a status of high environmental burden and environmental hazards, is subject to special arrangements. Special training is in place for the teams responsible for the protection of such a facility. I also ask when the last exercise of those who are obliged to intervene in such a case has been done. It's five years, it's seven years and so on. We forest fires or ordinary fires can be trained once a week because they happen in practice, let it be lightning, let it burn through the chimney and so on. But such special cases do not happen every day or every year. And for you to have properly trained teams and that they are also properly equipped, it is necessary to train certain exercises and so on. I think that this is one of the key problems here, and this also applies to all similar objects throughout Slovenia. You, training firefighters, civilian services, I don't know, other services, those who have to perform chemical analyses that have to, and so on, don't. And this proved to be true in this case, because long after the accident, no data could be obtained. The people who live there responded rationally, frightenedly. They wanted to know the potential consequences of what happened. They didn't get the information. And if you come in such a case with too slow information, even if it's real, it's a big scepticism, it's a big doubt on such information day. I think we should keep working on that. As far as inspection is concerned, I must say that I am disappointed, not in some way, but certainly disappointed at the response of the inspection. If you do not know what such an environmentally problematic object stores – or actually stores what it has the authority to do, whether it has it stored properly and so on This should be clear the next day. [[…]] Monitoring such an object can't be once every three years, it's impossible, it can't be, it can't happen. And I have to say, we should keep score on these things, even though we didn't write them in our own request. And we should also get a report on when the last review was, say, such an environmentally hazardous facility, like Vrhnika, or anywhere else. That information is what those who live in these locations deserve. They have to get them. But when we monitor these different events – and I will not say just now in this company, in Kemis, we also have a case in the banking system where the most responsible know nothing about what they were doing and what they were specifically responsible for when they didn't know whether they were deciding or not when they were dividing billions and millions – I ask in fact how high wages you have to have, that you don't remember anything when they ask you, because this amnesia depends on the level of salary directly. Those who have the highest wages in this country are reminded of their work in the company they operated at least. We have these cases on the commission of inquiry – in health care, in banks, we have these cases in Kemis and so on. Farthest away! And if we have people in leading positions who don't remember anything, who experience complete amnesia in a very short time, then probably we can't expect anything good, nothing positive, no results from the companies whose management is entrusted to them. No results. I think that in the National Assembly and also in executive functions, in the executive branch, we should do something to make sure that the people we give up their functions are still reminded after one week when they leave office or one year from now. To remember what they were doing, what they signed, what they accepted into the warehouse, and so on. It's not like that. Here we have two players in this National Assembly and these two can train these people before they go to any functions. Since you need to remember your role, you need to repeat yourself a thousand times to remember, and in this way you could at least get to it. I must say that it seems to me that, in fact, we are all now dealing with the reasons why this has occurred, but the consequences are also important, the consequences of this. I miss it here, I have to say, Minister of Health. The key consequences that anyone will suffer — whether they go into the earth, into the water, into the air — will occur in humans, in animals, in vegetation, in food, and so on. I have to find here with sadness that I would expect, or, above all, the Minister of Health here. As far as environmental matters are concerned, agriculture and so on, we know this more or less, but we do not know what will happen after the release of this amount of poison into the atmosphere, I don't know, in one month, three years and so on. We don't know that. And we need answers now, too, or especially to what will happen after what happened. In my opinion, this part is primarily the responsibility of the Ministry of Health and the system which controls it. I don't know how else you look at these things, but I think for people, for animals and for living in this environment, it's actually the most important thing. That's the most important thing. I must say that colleagues of Jurša and Gantar were particularly angry because everything is concentrated on the environment. I think that they are justified, but we have prepared a framework of the subject and recommendations for the debate, and I think there has been an opportunity on the committee that all these proposals that we have made have been upgraded. Not short-cut, but upgraded. Whether it's a natural disaster or a disaster, it's not really a big deal. I do not think that the Committee has taken advantage of the opportunity for these measures, which we have proposed, to be upgraded by measures in other areas in order to extend them substantively, to make any more stringent demands in this case and also to continue in other cases. And I consider that, fellows, a key flaw. In fact, in this part too, we have focused in some way on that problem of movement in the environment of people and animals and so on, but it would make sense for coalition Members, or also, or above all, the Government, to propose proposals, solutions that would also bind other resources and so on. I do not think it is right that in such topics, which appear to be a problem, we are dealing only with whether the opposition proposal would be supported or cut off elsewhere, but should take advantage of this proactively, as an opportunity and propose arrangements for other things that are directly or directly linked to such a problem. As I say, I see here the opportunity that things will somehow be upgraded, that there will also be something to be done in these areas. And that's why I expect today's, I'm going to say, a very coherent performance, including the others, so that it can lead to some solutions. However, I do not want this to be a mere response, because the public opinion on this issue is that both coalition Members and the Government have acted in this way in this debate only because of this. I think it makes sense for us to put the matter forward, aimfully and also propose solutions for the future. If we have made too little use of this meeting for what I have just said, I suggest we also agree on some follow-up to the committee, where these things will also come, even some reports and so on, to do these things. However, it seems to me that those two of our proposals are recommendations that have not been adopted on the Committee, and now, in some other form, the modified form appears as some additional content to support them and that all these environmentally hazardous areas, environmentally hazardous companies, are beginning to seriously check things and, above all, to carry out ongoing controls. And I think that reporting on controls in such companies should be an integral part of such or other annual reports or semi-annual reports, which are also received by the National Assembly, so that these things may also be monitored and suggested. We get all kinds of reports, some make sense, some don't. However, I think that reports would be related to such serious problems that some facilities in the environment may cause, but they should be given half a year if not annually. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Let me inform you, Mr. Tanko. Madam Secretary of State is present from the Ministry of Health; not only she, but also representatives of the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Environment and Space and most of the coalition Members. It seems important to me to stress that you have repeatedly mentioned that the Minister of Health is not here today. Madam Secretary of State has been here for how many hours we have been here, six, seven hours, so that we are not misunderstood. We are continuing and moving on to the conclusion of the general debate, in which we will get the word of a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer. First of all, the representative of the Government, Mrs Majcen, Minister for Environment and Space, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u93	Thank you, Chairman. As a matter of fact, you have already said or explained who we are here, even though I think we know who is here. However, it appears to some or convenient to discuss that they do not know who we are or what else we are here for. I would like to conclude, as all of us have agreed, with the Government's views on the proposals and recommendations that have been forwarded to us. We have somehow estimated that we have already answered specific questions in the debate itself and would no longer devote ourselves to it. I already said in the introduction that recommendation number 1 the government does not oppose. The Government also does not oppose recommendation number 2. Neither does the Government oppose recommendation No. 3, while recommendation No. 4 the Government opposes and the Government also opposes recommendation No. 5. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u94	The text is also given by the representative of the proposer, Mr Daniel Krivec. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u95	Thanks again for saying that. I have to say again that I thank everyone for really good and, I would say, a constructive debate. I think the focus was really focused on finding some solutions through actually analyzing what went wrong in this case. And most of the time we agreed that there have been a lot of mistakes that need to be addressed in some potential next situation, and as a result these are also the recommendations that we have before us. However, given that we have tabled additional amendments, I would like to explain the matter further later in the amendments, so that we are more constructive. So once again, I hope that you will make recommendations as well as these last amendments that we have tabled in line with the debate that was held in the National Assembly, as well as with the suggestions of fellow Members from the Coalition, so to speak, the additional amendments that have been or have been adapted to all these requirements of the Legislative and Legal Services and, on the other hand, the debates that took place in the National Assembly. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u96	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate. We are moving on to the debate on the point of the updated proposal for a recommendation and on the proposed amendment of the SDS Group to paragraphs 4 and 5 and their amendment have been published on the e-club. I'm opening a debate. I am putting to the debate the fourth point of the supplementary proposal for a recommendation and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Mr. Daniel the Slayer, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u97	Yes, as I have already said, this recommendation has been rejected on the home work body, so we have prepared an amendment that was identical at first, and now we have tabled an amendment. The amendment to point 4 of the recommendation reads: »The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia recommends to the Ministry responsible for the environment and the space to examine the environmental permits of all business entities in Slovenia that carry out activities that can lead to environmental pollution of a larger scale and are dangerous to human health and are located close to the populated areas and protected natural environments.« We have reformulated this matter in accordance with, as I said, the instructions of the Legislative and Legal Service and also in the light of all the debates you and the Coalition Members have had on this subject. The explanation itself is logical in terms of recent events both in Kemis and, now we see, in Ljutomer probably elsewhere. In fact, we believe that there is a need for further assessment, which I think you have identified by all the debaters. And from this point of view, we propose that this recommendation, which is general, be adopted and thus also allow the Ministry to take a step forward in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u98	Thank you very much. I'm guessing yes, I am Mag. Bojan Krajnc, you have the floor. [[…]] Then there's Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u99	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. The SMC task force recommended points 4 and 5, as proposed by the proposer for the committee meeting, already objected to the committee and would also oppose the initial amendments tabled by the proposer. After the amendments have been tabled for amendment to paragraphs 4 and 5, the SMC amendment will be supported by the SMC Group at point 4. In large part or completely eliminates the question of the Legislative and Legal Service regarding the fact that it points to the legal nature of the recommendation as an act of the National Assembly and also points out that it cannot propose measures which are not within the competence of the addressees. Therefore, this amendment to point 4 will be supported. However, we will not support the amendment to the 5th point, which removes the concerns of the Legal and Legislative Service, but the Minister has explained in a large way the changes in the law that are being drawn up at the meeting of the Committee. Under the Environmental Protection Act, it will therefore be necessary to transpose the Seveso Directive, although we are of course aware that, as usual, environmental legislation will once again debate whether we are too strict or too strict, as the Minister on the Committee has already pointed out. But about that then. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u100	Dr. Franz Runk, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u101	Yes, thank you for your word. We will support these issues, although, of course, we do not have any illusions in the United Left about the environmental awakening of both the proponent and the other parliamentary groups or, if you like, essentially the parties. I can tell you, I've been listening to this today, some of you are calling it a debate. I have to admit, I haven't seen much of this debate here. In fact, somehow these suggestions here, I think this is a little bit of a joke from all of it. What is proposed here is already the first three recommendations by the executive authority, regardless of who makes it. The other two recommendations, however, would be taken into account by any authority with a little sanity in such a case. So, frankly, I don't understand on a personal level what this meeting today is in that form really isn't. Of course, I understand it in your way of collecting points politically, which is purely legal and legitimate. Unfortunately, somehow I have no illusions of a similar event — one that happened recently — I hope that there will be no more of them — will not surprise us. I hope that at least some serious inspections will be carried out by these eleven entities, but I also hope that some other composition of this National Assembly – if not a year earlier – will start some serious reflection and work on some other and different and environmentally less controversial economic and industrial substituencies of Slovenia, as well as adopt appropriate legislation as support measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Colleagues, colleagues, I ask, does anyone else want to discuss Article 4 and the amendment of the SDS Group? I note that no, so I am putting to the debate a further item 5 of the supplementary proposal for recommendations and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Mr. Daniel the Slayer, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u103	Yes, thank you for your word. We have also essentially amended and complemented these amendments in line with today's debate and the suggestions of colleagues from the coalition. Now I see they won't support it either, if I understand it correctly, but it's true, as Comrade Duck said, incomprehensible. For this amendment speaks of recommending to the Ministry responsible for the environment and space to examine the appropriateness of the legislation in force, which regulates placing in place and issuing environmental consents for business operators who carry out an activity that can lead to pollution of the environment of a larger scale and is dangerous to human health and in the event of legislative shortcomings found in this area, produce an appropriate amendment to the legislation. This decision, or this proposal, is a recommendation that, on the one hand, I agree with my colleague Trčko, is very non-binding, but gives at least some weight to this debate today that, not least, the Minister has a difficult time when he or she performs or talks with other fellow ministers in a particular case which is linked to this legislation or with his or her subordinates, but it can be recalled that in essence this change and those opinions also require the National Assembly, namely the coalition and the opposition, without distinction. This argument that legislation is now changing in one way or another – we know that we have in the procedure of the Law on the regulation of premises and the Law on the Construction of Buildings and so on – does not deny this recommendation in any way. Because legislation is always changing, and if we are to warn that it also needs to be looked at in the light of the problem we have seen in the case of Kemis, I do not think that this is a problem. So I appeal, regardless of what I have heard now, that you have changed your mind in the coalition, but it is really incomprehensible that, as Members, the Ministry which is preparing this legislation would not recommend to me that it is clearly this part of the issue and that it should be examined in more detail from this point of view. So I propose that you consider and support this recommendation, because no one is bound by any deadlines, no charges against anyone, but gives a clear signal that we have also seen the problem in the National Assembly and that we all agree that this must be corrected in some way. So I still appeal to common sense when pressing on a voice machine.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u104	Anybody else want to discuss this? I find that no, and because no one wants to discuss it, I am also closing the debate and moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to point 4 of the updated proposal for a recommendation. We're voting. The vote is under way. It's not working? Interrupt Can you check your card? [[…]] Okay? We're starting the vote. The vote is under way. There were 55 Members and Members present and 47,8 votes against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to point 5 of the updated proposal for a recommendation. We're voting. I'm breaking up. I'm sorry. Mr. Franz Jurša, you have an opportunity to explain your voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u105	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Desus Group. The Space Regulation Act is incorporated into the procedure of the National Assembly and is expected to be held at the July session of this National Assembly. Construction Law – the general debate will take place at the June session. This is said to be matters governed by these two laws and there is no need to adopt this point of the proposal made by the SDS Group. Now, for information, you've probably heard more or less from everyone. Today, actually, last night, it burned up in the Luttomer, as I said before. I must tell you that the National Institute for Public Health has made its statement, that it has given its statement to Director Erzen and that the National Laboratory for Public Health is also in Ljutomer. Today, however, we have not received any response from the Ministry of Health in relation to the accident. It is very irresponsible that you, the Secretary of State, have been sitting here for eight hours and you have not given any reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u106	Explanation of vote, Dr. Franz Ducky. In his own name, most likely, right? Emissary groups. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u107	Yes, thank you for your word. Like we said before, we'll back it up. The task of the National Assembly, even though we will be approaching the elections, is something else that we have just heard. It is also true that the Schavnica is polluted, which was some result of this unfortunate event. If we touch on this legislation that we are going to adopt, of course we are going to analyse it accurately, and I must say that in the United Left we are not exactly excited about the environmental work and the changes and the direction in which we are going. But you know, it's kind of lame in this National Assembly to remove administrative obstacles. One is the removal of administrative barriers, and the other is the deterioration of legislation in a way that opens the gap for such events. If we have learned something from this story and I am afraid that we are not, it is in fact that we need much more informed legislation and, of course, supervisory action in practice. That's why we'll back it up. However, as I have already said, given the convening of this National Assembly and also what has been happening in the last three years, unfortunately we do not have any excessive illusions that we will move in this area of environmental protection where we should, but we will be very happy in the United Left if we turn out to be wrong about this. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u108	Mr. Daniel the Slayer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u109	Thank you. We will, of course, support this in our parliamentary group. I can see that there is a lot of misunderstanding to some extent. We will support this because placing in space is not separate from other legislation and this part is now being regulated, but if we are talking about issuing environmental agreements for such business entities, a substantial part of the legislation: the Environmental Protection Act, the Water Act, full of other things. Finally, Comrade Jurš, you yourself have found that in the event of pollution now in the last case of an accident there is also no protocol which would clearly require someone to report or give you data. That is why this recommendation is to verify legislation throughout the palette, which allows for placing in space plus the issue of environmental permits in cases such as Kemis, factory or facility in Ljutomer and so on. Therefore, I find it even more incomprehensible that throughout today's debate you all find that this is necessary; the recommendation is clear that nothing affects the laws currently tabled. It points out, however, that this legislation needs to be looked at from all perspectives, not just from the point of view of placement. This is only one part and it is necessary to read a full proposal recommending that this legislation be rewinded from all angles of view. And I think that, from this point of view, this – at least according to your discussions – should be acceptable for all and nothing affects the activities and activities that the Ministry of Environment and Space is now taking in the event of amendments and adoption of legislation such as the Law on the regulation of premises and the Law on the construction of buildings. Once again, there are many other legislation for all these facilities, which must be taken into account for the issue of an environmental permit to be issued and rewinded. This is necessary in the whole area. However, I appeal to you to support this recommendation and to give the Minister the opportunity to have one decision of the National Assembly which imposes it, I would say, subordinates to take these documents or this legislation seriously into consideration and prepare corrections if necessary. That's all the recommendation and nothing else.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-09-SDZ7-Izredna-44.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? I guess not. That is why we are moving to the vote. The vote is under way. There are 55 Members and Members present, 21 votes in favour and 34 votes in favour. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 34.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a full decision on the updated proposal for a recommendation. What explanation for the voice? I guess not. We therefore begin by voting. The vote is under way. There are 59 Members and Members present, 58 for them and 1 for them. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the recommendation has been adopted. I conclude this agenda item and also the 44th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Just for a little while, have a nice weekend. Good-bye, good-bye.
