ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 26th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, Violeta Tomić, Mrs Irena Kotnik, Mrs Anita Koleša, Dr Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, Mrs Iva Dimic from 16:00 on, Mrs Ljudmila Novak from 16:00 on, Mrs Susanna Lepi Šimenko, mag. Bojana Mursich, mag. Andrej Shircelj, mag. Branko Grims, Mr. Bojan Podkrodšek, Luka Mesec from 11.30 a.m. to 2 p.m., Mr. Tomaž Lisec, Mr. Janez Janša, mag. Bojan Krajnc, mag. Branislav Rajić, Mr. Franz Laj, Mr. Jernej Vrtovec from 16:00 on, mag. Matthew Tonin from 18:00 on, Mr. Joseph Horvat from 13:00 onward, Dr. Ange Logar, Mr. Franz Jurša from 12:00 onward, Mr. Roberto Battelli, Mr. Janko Weber and Dr. Franz Runk from 13 o'clock on. Before we begin the session, allow me to briefly address the National Assembly. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, representatives of the Government, distinguished citizens and citizens! The history of the cruelest tragedies of our civilization rests on the crimes of sinning goats, which have been burdened by political forces on their shoulders by all the wrath of society and the country. Both the distant and the immediate past are full of such vile crimes; they are horribly crowded — from the slaughter of Namibian Herrer and Nam, the Armenian Medz Yeghern, the Ukrainian holodomist, the Jewish Shoe, to the extermination of the Rwandan Tutsi and the Srebrenica Muslims. And it is because of these and other such dark stains of our common past that we are reminded of on this day, as it is every year since the proclamation of this Memorial by the General Assembly of the United Nations, of the Day of 27 January 1945, of the day when the members of the Red Army liberated the Auschwitz concentration camp, the factory of death and the symbol of evil, which was scattered under the command of the German Nazi regime, its supporters and sympathizers during World War II. Today is a day of remembrance of the repudiated acts of man and mankind; acts that must never leave our minds. The horrors of the Holocaust and other crimes of the Third Reich have brought concepts and concepts into the mouths of nations around the world, the meaning of which should never have been known; but the cruel historical experience has forced us to do so. These acts were named only in the Nuremberg Court of Justice. Genocide — a word that today, when everything is relative, when a person becomes a wolf man again, still goes down like it did at the time. Hard, full, scary. The crime of all crimes. Unimaginable manhood. An evil that only man is capable of doing; at a point where there is no more humanity in itself, when he becomes an instrument to seek out other goals, when his mind is clouded by ideology or by the silver of hatred. Various atrocities have also created the concept of crimes against humanity, which have even been included in the statutes of the Nürnberg tribunal. These include crimes that our country had to face in half history. But the fundamental meaning of these words is neither semantic nor legal, but entirely human. These words represent a tool with which we can speak unspeakablely today. They are tools that make it easier for us to understand today that our humanity is far from self - centered and that help us to see that we are obviously not learning enough from our own miscarriages. That is why the memory of the victims of the Holocaust — as well as the victims of other crimes that he understands, such as genocide and crimes against humanity — is obscured by the priceless, inevitable, and indispensable travel for us and for all the generations that follow us. Your Honor! The postwar world has already proved that from ruins, millions of corpses, horrors, and reprisals, a new hope can grow. The hope that the future will be brighter and, above all, that a human being will regain his dignity and name. And he did. Especially when he responded to the horrors of the survivors. Each in his own way, with his own pain, courage and hope. Even with a brush and paper or canvas, we can admire these feelings, such as in the exhibition in the lobby of this hall. Some works of painter Roman Erich Petchet were exhibited in 1907 in Kočev, a German army officer born in Germany; a man who was knocked on his conscience during World War II by the deportations of Jews from occupied New Sad. He put his life on the line to resist this inhumanity. And although he managed to save two young people and innocent lives with immeasurable effort and risk, the message of his actions is unequivocal and invaluable — that man can remain in the most difficult circumstances. That we cannot and must not forget a fellow human when a terrible hour comes, when we face challenges without chance. That is why the painter Petche recorded himself in history as an example of humanity, as well as as as the recipient of the name Pravnik among the nations; the title by which Yad Vashem rewarded him for his sacrificial and risky salvation of the Jews in 1982. Your Honor! Indescribable killings of World War II, in the core of the evil of which the victims of the Holocaust surely lie, we also responded collectively; as humanity and in the cause of man. With the advent of what many have called the revolution of human rights, countries around the world have begun to make binding commitments to protect and protect the dignity and freedom of all individuals. Thus, under the auspices of the United Nations in 1947, the first international human rights treaty was created by the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide, followed by many other acts, from more general to those that protect particularly vulnerable groups of people. One such act is certainly an extremely current and relevant Convention on the Status of Refugees, which was established in 1951 in the ruins of World War II, a conflict that has triggered mass movements of nearly 60 million people through persecution and violence across Europe. Those who formed the convention were still well aware that the most vulnerable members of mankind would need it most. It is therefore misleading to believe that in today’s world, the level of protection of human dignity, freedom and personal security that we have achieved through unimaginable hard efforts is too high. It's a mistake at the expense of a man. It's a mix-up between us. It is an error on the basis of the basis of the civil principles on which the entire legal order rests. It is precisely the idea of a man of inherent rights that we are with, and we must also face in advance the tragic fates of the victims we remember today. These fundamental rights and freedoms belong to all human beings. Everyone's. It is in their nature that they cannot be confused with national boundaries, not with the flesh of the skin, not with the sex, not with religion, not with any other personal circumstance. And we do not have these inalienable rights only because of the efforts of the international community, but we have also written them into the valuable and moral foundation of our country – the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia; the highest act and most important document of our political and social economic system. If we sink it into dust, we all fall. And we're where the world was on January 27, 1945. Nothing at the point. Is that what we really want? Dear Members and Members and other Members present. Knowing that we are human as long as we are in solidarity with our neighbor, let us bow in silence to all those who have failed to escape the horrors of this bloody century. Let us express our deep respect for the survivors and our appreciation for sharing or sharing their witness. / minute silence/ So it won't happen again. Never and never. For us and for future generations. We're moving on to one. At the time of the day, this is for questions from the Members of Parliament and the Members of Parliament. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 28 questions from the Member States in writing within the deadline. The order of business shall be laid down in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Each Member or Member shall have three minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government, ministers and ministers shall answer the question within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have five minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer; however, he cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The Member who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question in the next regular session of the State speech. Regarding this point, they apologized today: Dr. Peter Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure by 13 p.m.; Mag. Goran Klemenčič, Minister of Justice; and Mag. Matthew Vraničnik Erman, Minister of Finance. An e-club provides an overview of the questions that have not yet been answered in the course of business. Procedural question, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. For the introduction, is this list of unanswered questions credible? Does it record all the unanswered questions raised by Members? After some of the tests I have, there are at least a few more questions that have not been written on this list. The second question concerns one unanswered question from this list. On 16 June this year, colleague Gorenak asked the Minister of the Interior about the Ornig case. The deadline for reply was 16 July last year. After more than half a year, we still have not received an appropriate answer to this question. Mr President, I ask you to address the relevant letter to the Government and to the competent ministers who are debtors to Members and to remind them that they will answer our questions within the time limit; also to those who are disagreeable to the Government. I expect you to do it as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u3	Thank you very much. As far as the first request is concerned, I'll check to see if the list is really complete. We can do it again. As far as the other matter is concerned, however, it is of course that I have to do this on my official duty; and I will react accordingly. If it doesn't help with the letter, then verbally. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first four questions will be answered by the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Miro Cerar. Mag. Branko Grims, you have the floor to ask the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u4	Good-bye to all of you! Your Honor! There is growing awareness among people that we are becoming citizens and citizens in our own country of secondary education. The first-class are those who enter it illegally. According to the Court of Auditors, every illegal migrant of our taxpayers costs thousands of EUR 930 a month, even writing – at least. This is said to mean that taxpayers of the Republic of Slovenia spend at least EUR 1000 930 per month for every illegal migrant. The worker who works for a minimum wage pays this migrant, which means that three workers, three employees in companies, are needed to pay for this luxury which the government gives to illegal migrants, to those who break the laws; to the detriment of their own citizens and citizens. Someone worked behind the tape for 40 years, left his health there, left his life there, received 500 euros in pension; and some party still holds it. 500 euros in pensions, ladies and gentlemen, or some even less. One illegal who comes into this country illegally, thanks to the government and its policies, gets four times that much money. Article 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia states that Slovenia is a legal and social state. This is an obvious violation of the Slovenian Constitution, ladies and gentlemen. Not only is it inhuman, but it's clearly a violation of the Constitution. This has nothing to do with the social state anymore, but it has much to do with human corruption and the creation of conditions in which the most capable, young people go abroad, entrepreneurs go abroad, and illegal migrants are imported, and the elective body is changed. The greatest social experiment since the fall of Nazism and socialism or communism in history takes place before our eyes. This spring, NGOs warned that as many as 30,000 Slovenian children will not be able to go to sea, but they want to; because they grew up in poor families and are already deprived. What did the government do? She imported migrants and took them to sea to take pictures with them. Ladies and gentlemen, that's not how it's done. For the highlight of everything you have now made an invitation to live where LED TV is required, leather seats, glass ceramic plates; what certainly half of Slovenian families do not even have a home. How is that possible, ladies and gentlemen? I want to know: What excuse do you have for the policy that an illegal alien is more valuable than his own citizen?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u5	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u6	Thank you very much. Commissioner Grims, I must immediately say that not only do you deceive the public with your questions and claims, but you also speak obvious falsehoods. This is not good; especially because you are doing this in order to somehow prepare people to have some sense of anger, discomfort, anything; what we really do not need in Slovenia. First, let me say that the government has always been involved in all this treatment of migrants and also of applicants for international protection, and will continue to follow the laws adopted by this Parliament in the future. And here we have to separate to specifically regulate the regime concerning migrants who are illegal, who are staying here illegally; and you are talking about those who are applicants for international protection and whose rights are laid down in our legislation and we must respect them. The government here is also bound by international conventions and the principles of solidarity, which are always respected. And let me make it very clear that in the audit you mentioned, the Court of Auditors found that the average monthly cost of dealing with an individual applicant for international protection is a truly thousands of euros; that is, the information that, in addition to providing itself, the applicant includes other data. It includes funds for employees' salaries, includes all aid programmes, includes the cost of maintaining an asylum home and so on. These calculations are completely incomparable. And let me say that, as from February 2016, on the basis of the Decision fixing the amount of the daily allowance for the applicant for international protection, the amount of the day of delivery shall be 12,2 euros. On 24 June last year, we issued a new decision and now it amounts to 8.9 euros. This amount includes the basic care of the applicant for international protection, including accommodation in an asylum home, food, clothing and footwear, and personal hygiene resources, which will total EUR 385.80 per month. Let me add that the cost of paying cash for the private accommodation of internationally protected persons totalled EUR 161 000 952 in 2016, of which 75% were co-financed by European funds. The Court of Auditors found that the means for carrying out the procedures and individual measures and projects relating to the treatment of applicants were transparently recorded and used in accordance with the principle of economy. The costs of examining the applicant for international protection were proportionate to the length of the decision-making procedures on the recognition of international protection. And when you mentioned accommodations in some luxury apartments, some try to deceive our public all the time. The standards by which we equip those premises that are serviced within the government are also intended for the housing purposes mentioned by you, determine the materials and equipment of the quality of the lower middle class, say no luxury. However, I think it is right that we take care of the normal humane care of these applicants for international protection, as the Slovenians have always known. Of course, you know that the government is very vigilant in monitoring the situation and does not allow illegal migration. As you know, we have just adopted a measure yesterday, which we now have at our disposal, if the issue is exacerbated so that the safety of our citizens can also be taken care of by additional measures. Of course, we hope that this will not be necessary. However, I would say that the government acts responsibly, in accordance with the laws and the Constitution. The information you provide does not hold and is misleading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u7	Mag. Branko Grimes, you have the floor to request a response.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u8	But this would be fair and funny if it wasn't tragic. We are working by law, says the president of that government, who has allowed half a million people across Slovenia illegally; contrary to the laws of the Republic of Slovenia, contrary to international rules. If I recall correctly, about 200,000 of them didn't even take the fingerprints, which they should have done; so she had no idea who she was dropping on the Schengen area. And the penalty for this is the borders that have been created at the Slovenian borders by neighbouring countries. A thousand 963 euros, if we are both precise, is the cost of a migrant; out of this, according to the Court of Auditors, falls to the European Union of 380 euros, everything else is the cost of a Slovenian taxpayer. One more thing. Is it possible they're piling up money in Brussels?Oh, my God! No, that money comes from Slovenia, it just goes to the cashier's office, and then it comes back here. So much so that we don't pretend someone's just printing money somewhere. It is the cost of people and entrepreneurs here in Slovenia, which you take from them money with excessive taxation. I think it's already 65 taxes and taxes in Slovenia and four more you're preparing right now. As a result, companies move abroad, young people move abroad, create an exodus, and such a policy is destructive for the Slovenian nation. And you're giving it to an illegal migrant. What you said, you could call it a lower middle class. Let me tell you that I don't even have an LED TV in my house, and probably not half the other families in Slovenia. Don't get carried away about it. The costs you talked about misrepresenting them would not have been incurred if there were no illegal migrants here. So they were created exactly and only for that. And that's the fault of the wrong government policy, where you've made an extra shot to the knee with these luxury apartments. Migrants are not an amorphous crowd linked to each other, this will be done between them and Slovenia will become a target country. While the Minister has already warned that the number of asylum seekers has increased by 500 % [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u9	Sir. Nothing. It shall be automatically switched off at two seconds. Turn it off automatically. Mr President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u10	I've presented the data they hold. I won't repeat myself. I will say, Mr Grims, that what you are doing is the intentional spread of negativity, the intimidation of people completely without arguments and grounds, and on the basis of untruths. As Prime Minister of the Government, I will make every effort to ensure that this will not prevail in our society. Because if this is how we think about trying to intimidate people with misleading and unreal information, causing some kind of hatred in them, then our country will not go any further. I hope that you can see more and more what you are doing; and that politicians and also citizens will be able to assess what is really going on with us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u11	Mag. Branko Grims, you have the floor for a procedural request to hold a debate on the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u12	Dearly beloved, what I read was the audit report, the official figures, the sketch I spoke of with the figures; 380 euros from European funds, remaining up to a thousand 963 euros a month for one migrant at the expense of Slovenian taxpayers. It says here, the sketch is official, it's also posted online. See for yourself who speaks the truth and who deceives. Such a policy is destructive for Slovenia and Slovenia. Such a policy means the long-term development destruction of the country of Slovenia. Poverty of all at the expense of those who come illegally. Such a policy is clearly contrary to Article 2 of the Constitution that Slovenia is a social state. Until the last Slovenian child can go to sea until the country allows him to do so, he has no one else to drive to sea. As long as the last Slovenian and Slovene are frozen in their houses, as was the last case, some others, which we have read about, where fortunately there were no worst consequences, must be taken care of first for themselves, for their people, for Slovenian citizens and citizens. Only then can you help others, not the other way around. A policy that is wrong, which is inhuman, which is an a social policy that is unacceptable. And that's what we need to talk about here. This is a policy that overburdens Slovenian companies, Slovenian entrepreneurs, each individual employee, and then spends money on giving it to those who come illegally to the territory of the European Union or to the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. It is totally unacceptable, even unconstitutional, obviously unconstitutional. And you all know that, but you do this because it was so nice to paint, but not in those of Soroš funded media; instead of taking care of the development of their country, for the well-being of their people, for the safety of their people, who should be without exception in the first place. That is why we need to talk about this in this national assembly. Because this social thing, with help, has nothing to do with it anymore. But it has to do with a very wrong policy that is being avenged in the long run. You have now been in the countries of the Visegra Group, Mr President of the Government, which is good; but one year ago, when I formally proposed this in this House, your entire coalition voted against. At the meeting of the National Security Council, you then listened to this and now you are doing what is good; but such policies as you are taking are not being carried out by any country of the Visegra Group. And if we want to become a partner there, which I think is the only good perspective for Slovenia, in the mixed situation in which the European Union has entered, then this policy will have to be changed. It will have to be changed for the sake of Slovenian citizens and citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u13	Mag. Branko Grimes, about your proposal I didn't hear. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] There was no proposal, no formal proposal. [[advertising from the hall]] No, no, no. But we're still going to vote on this because you got the word for it. But I'm asking you nicely to do that. No, actually, there was no suggestion. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] I'll check on the magnetogram. If this proposal is not clearly expressed, we will not vote on this proposal. Gradually, Mr. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u14	Mr President, this is beyond all limits. You're making a fool of yourself, from your citizens and citizens, who take their money and give it to foreign illegals. And then you show it as if I don't know what kind of help it is; and here are those we warn about it. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u15	How procedural is that?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u16	You're kidding. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u17	We're moving on to the session. Procedurally does not stop my item. Luka Mesec has the floor to ask the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar. Procedurally, wait. And now he's going to say it procedurally. Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that. The third part of the oral question is self-special, by the way, Mr President. Self-specialized. Everyone in this third part can say, and that's the way it goes. I suggest you look at what you read for yourself, every time. And if you now look back at your parliamentary practice, Mr President of the National Assembly, your parliamentary practice, because you are holding a meeting of the National Assembly, you have found that you have done so several times already. You've done it a few times. I suggest you don't get involved here and do more stupid things than you did yesterday and all those days ago. That's all I'm saying. That's well-intentioned. Making a circus out of unnecessary things is just the characteristic of those who don't control the system's work, not the planning work, not any things, not the concepts, and then stumble on the, I don't know, trinkets. Mr Grims has been given the floor for a procedural matter and it is understood, even if he does not require it by stating that this is a procedural proposal. It's understandable because it's so designed because it's so done. However, the wisdom of those who preside over the meeting of the National Assembly depends heavily on it. Unfortunately, the absence of this is extremely significant in this mandate. I hope this doesn't show up in this case.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u19	I'm staying with what I said before. I'll check to see if the intention was clearly expressed. This does not presuppose in any way that an article or anything like that should be mentioned, only a clear intention. And that's it. [[advertising from the hall]] Now, please, we're not going to keep setting up procedural procedures. Why? [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, you're right. I'm holding on to that. I'm so democratic. Mag. Branko Grimes wants a procedure. I'm asking you to make it really procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u20	Dear Mr President, this leadership of yours is in the style of what I said before and even worse. However, I would remind you that I have stressed at least twice – you can check this out – that, therefore, with the justification that I have said, I suggest that the National Assembly should talk about this. That "this must be spoken of by the National Assembly", this quote can be found in this text. And I'm asking you to stop fooling around. Take care of things properly. But I believe you don't like it, and I believe it, but that's your problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u21	Like I said, I'm going to check the scan. If the matter is clearly expressed, the matter will be decided, otherwise it has not been expressed in an appropriate manner. He now has the word Luka Mesec to ask the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. He likes to go to the third, obviously. I'm going to ask the Prime Minister a question about minimum wage. As you know, we have proposed in the United Left that the minimum wage should be increased to €700 by autumn. We have proposed this because it seems unacceptable to us that we have had economic growth in the country for three years now, the effects of this growth and prosperity do not reach people. Humanitarian workers report that every fifth person seeking humanitarian assistance is employed. This seems very significant to us, but at the same time unacceptable and is due to the fact that surpluses are practically stopped at 10% of the richest, best paid and capital. Some statistics from last year are eloquent. In the trade sector, for example, they recorded a total of EUR 521 million in profits, I am talking about trades such as Hofer, Spar, Mercator, Lidl. On the other hand, if you go to the storekeepers, shopkeepers, cleaners and so on, what wages they work for there, most of the answers will probably be for the minimum. That's one thing. The second is that your government, Mr Prime Minister, has at the same time decided that in the last two years it has reduced its income twice by 10% of the best paid. You have reduced your income, our income - Members, income from bank administrations and so on; but at the same time the minimum wage has increased by EUR and a half by the same period, even though the economy has increased by 8% at the same time. And this year you have also decided that you will only marginally increase the minimum wage, that is 10 euros; it will still remain below the risk of poverty. This is a completely political decision and the reasons for such a distribution of surpluses – they are said to be stuck in profit to reduce income by 10% of the richest, while only bits of money reach people – are entirely political. That is your decision in the government, and that is ultimately our decision in the National Assembly. In this respect, I am interested, Mr. Prime Minister: Why do you not want to increase the minimum wage or why do you reject the proposal we have made to increase the minimum wage to EUR 700? And secondly, I'm interested in your plan. What minimum wage can people expect for the rest of your term? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u23	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u24	Thank you very much. The government is aware that while we are successfully pulling the country out of crisis situations, as you know, the indicators are good, despite taking social measures, that there is increasing employment, more and more people can work, we still have those that deserve little. That's a problem, as far as we're concerned. But when we talk about minimum wage, we must say that Slovenia's minimum wage is among the higher in European countries according to official statistics. And, of course, we're trying to raise it. This year we will, too, but first let me say what is very important. When raising the minimum wage it is always necessary to take into account the impact on the economy, other matters and other stakeholders are also said. The law says that the minimum wage can be aligned once a year at least with the rise in prices of living needs, and this year we will certainly do so, and the minimum wage could also be increased according to criteria such as wage movements, economic conditions or economic growth and, thirdly, employment trends. All of this must be taken into account. If we look at these criteria, we see that there are positive trends in all the criteria. We have 1.8% salary growth for the period January-November 2016 according to the same period of the previous year, we have 2.6% economic growth for the period January-September 2016 according to the same period last year and we have 1.9% employment growth according to the same period last year. The Minister for Labour has therefore already announced at the Economic and Social Council that we will raise the minimum wage. We will first align it with the increase in living costs, which is the first step. Then we will raise it together by 1.8%, which means it will amount to 804,96 euros for 2017. The proposal was not supported by trade unions that want more, nor by an economy that strongly opposes this measure. The final proposal to harmonise the minimum wage and to this increase 1.8% takes into account all these criteria that I have said, and it is important that the growth of the minimum wage does not exceed the growth of the average wage, that is 1.8%. By raising the minimum wage in the same percentage as the increase in the average wage, we will ensure that the ratio between minimum and average wages is maintained and, at the same time, we will contribute to improving the social situation of employees with the lowest income. Let me say here that we have already adopted a very important measure on minimum wage in 2016. At that time, we decided that three supplements, a night work allowance, for holidays and for weeks, would no longer be included in the minimum wage, which was also a social measure in favour of workers. However, we need to say something that experts can determine if there is an excessive increase in the minimum wage, it can also jeopardise jobs, as in this case employment may be reduced and it can also have other negative effects on the economy, i.e. on exports of competitiveness and on economic growth. That is why the government has to weigh among all these factors that we have taken into account, and so will the Minister. But I stress that we are going to this increase in minimum wages, in harmonisation and promotion; of course, to the extent that it allows for some sustainability on the part of systems such as the economy and social. And that is not true, our income mini reform, which is what was done in the framework of the tax restructuring last year, brought relief to those with lower incomes on the income scale. This is also where the government introduced this measure. However, I stress that the best social measure for me personally – and I believe that many share my opinion – is to provide more work. And if the economy succeeds, if we are competitive, which we are, increasingly, every month there will be more employment. We know we've hired 50,000 young people in the last two years. We know that employment has also increased significantly among young people, by 20% only among young people. We know that unemployment fell below 100,000 after six years. This is what is most important, that we will not only help people with social transfers but also enable them to do decent work and so on. Of course, we are also taking action, as I said, in the area of minimum wage in favour of those we need to help, because they are really somehow at the bottom, to say so. And the government will continue to do so. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u25	Procedurally, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, chairman. I'm a man who can handle a lot of things in my stomach. I'm listening to the president of this government now. My brother worked night shifts in Renault, drove a truck, couldn't live with his salary. And even the vast majority of Slovenes and Slovenians cannot survive with a minimum wage! Well, dear God, Mr. Cerar, do you have ears, or do you have ears?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u27	It's not procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u28	I'm gonna leave this session because I'm gonna throw up.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u29	Okay, but I'm gonna say it's a reminder.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u30	Because I'm gonna throw up. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u31	Misuse of procedural [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u32	I'm leaving this meeting and I'm not gonna ask any questions. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u33	Please, then. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u34	Yesterday we had some kind of derogation between citizens and citizens. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u35	Can we continue in peace? Politics also requires a stomach. The word has Luke Moon to request a reply from the Prime Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u36	Thank you. First of all, I have to object to a few things that the Prime Minister has stated. You say experts warn that if we increase the minimum wage, unemployment will increase. Last time Bogomir Kovac said very clearly that the economic profession has clearly rejected this; not only the economic profession, including institutions such as the European Commission, the International Labour Organisation, after all, the AMF. They are no longer in favour of such claims, and I think it would be time for the Slovenian government to listen to this too. Secondly, you say exports and competitiveness will be at risk. I think that I can only remind you that Slovenia is a highly competitive country and that last year we had about 2.7 billion euros more exports than imports. This competitiveness will in no way be compromised if the minimum wage is increased. Thirdly, you say economic growth can be compromised. I'll give you a counter motion here. If we leave the situation the way it is, – I said the example of trade – those 521 million Euros of profit will simply flow out of the country because most of these chains are called Spar, Hofer, Lidl, Mercator, in foreign ownership. On the contrary, if we increase the minimum wage, at least part of this money will be paid by sellers, cleaners, warehousekeepers and will be rounded up by the economy, generating domestic demand, new economic growth and more jobs. So there are also completely economic reasons on this side. One last thing. You answered the first question just the way you did; even though I do not accept such an answer. But you didn't answer the second question: What minimum wage can people expect for the rest of your term of office?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u37	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u38	By the end of our term of office, people can expect a higher minimum wage if, of course, we continue to have a successful economy, which the government is very encouraging; and if the country normally goes in the direction we set it off. The more successful we are, the more everyone gets. Personally, it is hard for me to know that some are still below the poverty threshold when I know that the minimum wage for many is very little, knowing that pensions are too little for many; and these people must live very hard and modestly. But we're not in a crisis by this government, so please. This government is pulling Slovenia out of the crisis. Every year the situation is better, there is more social assistance, there is more work, there is more pay and, as I said, the minimum wage increases. And when I look at them, I would call them pre-election performances of your colleagues, I can only answer with facts. I'm not going to go down to that level and insult someone here and so on. But the facts show that we are going for better and we are trying, we are going to raise the minimum wage; despite the opposition of the economy. But not so much that we're going to hit the economy, which is going to prove negative back. In 2014, the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development estimated that the rise in the minimum wage during the crisis had an impact on the loss of 7,000 jobs and on the long term on 18,000 jobs. What you're suggesting is just one part of the story. The government must take a responsible view of the whole: the economy, workers, pensioners, young people and all other subsystems operating in the country. I therefore absolutely stress how much we care about those with low incomes; we work for them and we will be in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u39	Luka Mesec, you have the floor for a procedural request to hold a discussion on the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, one last time. Mr Prime Minister, I have not made it clear to you that you have brought us into a crisis; but I am telling you that you are only pulling 10% of the richest out of the crisis. I repeat, we have had economic growth for three years and this is not known in the well-being of the majority of the population. The minimum wage increased by 1.6 euros during the period when the economy increased by 8 %. Therefore, I would suggest to my colleagues that how to take care of the welfare of all, how to make sure that no one will work in Slovenia, but will not be able to survive from their work, as is now the case, we will have a serious discussion in this national assembly. And let's talk about what a minimum wage we'd have at the end of our term of office. Because what Mr. Prime Minister said today is not only for us, but for most in this country is unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u41	Luka Mesec, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly today, 30 minutes after this point is interrupted. Mrs Iva Dimic, you have the floor to ask the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. Dear President, Mr President of the Government! In the last year, you and your ministers have been talking a lot about improving the economic situation in the country. As a result, you release a number of austerity measures while at the same time increasing budget expenditure in many areas. Let me just mention the recapitalisation of SDH and DUTB of EUR 250 million, the increase in public sector wages, the reintroduction of 2 January as part of the day off and the increase in the minimum pension for full-time pensions without totality, the increase in the minimum wage and could still be mentioned to you. Dear Mr President of the Government, the demographic picture of Slovenia is indeed extremely poor, one of the worst in the European Union. This is what the Government's Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development also draws our attention to. For the normal functioning of the country or all of its subsystems, we would need about 30,000 births in the coming years, and we are currently not reaching the number of 20,000. And the trend is worrying because the number is still falling. You've been running the government for over two years. I'm asking you: Do you estimate that you have done enough for families and young people at this time? What measures are you taking and will you respond to the data of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u43	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u44	Dear Member Dimichev, you have addressed me with a question that is very topical for all of us, for future generations. I agree with you and the profession that demographic trends in Slovenia and in other countries are very worrying. In the government, we are aware of this, we are preparing a strategy for a long-lived society, we are preparing measures that will be implemented in the future. We've already done something, I'll say it; but as long as it's like this, it's never done enough, so we want to do more and work on it. But to improve the situation of families, that is, to stimulate families to develop, to have more children, we have already taken or are planning the following measures. First of all, we have increased the children's allowance for all children in the fifth and sixth income classes, and we have brought them back to the pre-crisis level. And this applies to about 97,000 children. We have introduced a new arrangement for the subsidy of school meals and lunches, thereby extending the right circle of children to free meals in school. As you know, you have also been very actively involved here. In 2016, we ensured that there would be more paternity leave if I said in general, because it is not possible to present the data, but the paternity leave will be wider. This in research shows that it has a positive impact on decision-making for other and subsequent children if also fathers can take more leave and participate in the upbringing of the child. During this coming time, this year and beyond, we will further simplify the use of parental and paternity leave in order to make it more flexible and accessible to more parents. We will introduce 30 days of parental leave for adoptive parents or persons entrusted to them by the child for the purpose of adoption for a child under 15 years of age. We will also systematically settle some other matters, this may be some more side action, but we will also adjust the wine system to make it easier for families with multiple children. Then we changed the income scale by applying the new Income Act this year and introduced the levers to reward in such a way that it also prevents the departure of the best staff abroad, which again means a measure in favour of young people, that the perspective of young people is better. We implement family support programmes aimed at preparing for parenthood, promoting positive parenting and strengthening parental competences, improving communication and family relations, creative and active leisure activities for children and families, easier reconciliation of professional and family life, psychosocial assistance for children and parents and other content. We're working on it. We are aware that these challenges are ahead of us, and this is some process that will continue all the years to come. But I'd like to say something in person and as Prime Minister of the Government. I believe that we must all, even in politics, increasingly encourage culture, that we, as a society and also as individuals, will show by our words and actions that we really want to have a child; that those older ones really want or want grandchildren; that we, as individuals, will also help our children or our neighbors to make a better decision about parenthood. The government will continue with systemic and other concrete measures. Here, of course, I also count on the help of Parliament, of ideas, of assistance in legislative procedures. At the same time, we will try to promote the mentality that we will want children in this society, that we will want to do as much for them as possible. And I'm making a public appeal to this right now, and I believe that many of you will join me. Let there be more children, let there be more grandchildren, sons, daughters, let us help them, and let us also help our parents at personal level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u45	Mrs. Iva Dimic, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u46	Thank you for your answer, distinguished Prime Minister. While some of the measures listed could have been slightly more social measures, not so much measures in support of the family. However, I am pleased that you have made yourself clear here, in this National Assembly, to support the situation of families, and also to call on the entire Parliament, and I have therefore understood that we, the parties, are involved in this. That is why I am particularly pleased that today we are about to put into procedural consideration the proposal of the novel ZUJF, which actually touches on the most important part of our society, namely the family, their situation and also the transfers that are intended for families. Here I have in mind a full maternity allowance, a child allowance also for the seventh and eighth classes, a free kindergarten for another or further children within the family, a subsidy for the first resolution of the housing issue, which is very important for young people. This is also intended for young people to come back, however, with first rescue subsidies; and, of course, with other measures. According to your words, I see that this is one of the opportunities already today to move from words to actions; and therefore I thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u47	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Let me first say that I am pleased to be involved in these matters. The government has already stated that it has already set out the same purpose, which you have now demonstrated in some way with this initiative. We have already decided that next year we will certainly release these measures in the so-called infamous ZUJF; we know when it was adopted. It was a time of crisis, it was hard, but still. These measures should also be released. But because of some normal process that we will not work in the system of excessive leaps forward and cause some disturbance, we plan to do so immediately next year. In this respect, we are fully focused on the same objective. It's only a matter of time. The government here must ensure that the processes are carried out in a manner that is balanced and appropriate. Looking forward to the future, however, it is so important that all other measures, both systemic and concrete, will grow in scale and intensity, as the demographic picture of Slovenia is now truly worrying, as in many other European countries. But this can't make us feel any better. We have solutions, we keep looking for them, those extra ones. I believe that we will also be part of this challenge, but we will have to work together in the most reasonable way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u49	Mrs Iva Dimic, you have the floor for a procedural request to hold a debate on the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u50	Thank you very much. I also propose that today we vote on the debate. Of course, the debate which measures are most necessary in order for Slovenia, however, to be able to resist demographic indicators so that we can take care of our future generations for our future. I am a little disappointed because, as important a topic as the improvement in new births in terms of the state of young people in the country is to be postponed to the following year. It seems to me that this is inappropriate, especially because the Members of New Slovenia are already working on proposals that would actually help and have helped in the years when we had more births, more care for families in this country, so that it will be postponed to the following year, when we practically know that the next year will be an election year and then only promises will remain. I therefore propose a debate in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u51	Mrs Iva Dimic, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly today, 30 minutes after the end of this item. Dr. Simona Kustec Lipicer, you have the floor to ask the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Madam President. Today, this debate or question shows that our government is confined to heaven; which is very good because it shows that the work that has been done so far has produced such fruits; that we can talk about such a future, about a vision, about social and economic progress, and, above all, I believe that prosperity, about prosperity in this country. The numbers prove it, we've already heard it today, so it's a shame to waste time doing it again. On the other hand, we are also aware that the responsible government is setting responsible priorities for the future. Not all on the average, not just and always just something that seems to like the first ball, because it does not have very precise estimates of who acquires with certain measures and who can lose many times in this account. That's why I'm interested, Prime Minister: In the situations in which we are today, in the context of positive economic and social growth and the progress made over the past years, absolutely very important in 2016, not only with government measures, but also with the very important support that we have given with these solutions to the coalition side in the National Assembly, what are the key priorities of your action, our joint action in 2017, in particular in terms of priority for people, which I believe is why we are, at least in this mandate, all of us are primarily here? At a time when we have progress, at a time when it is also very slow, but visibly, with figures proven, they reduce social exclusion, the need for social assistance, primarily unemployment; on the other hand, they increase estimates of people's satisfaction in their daily lives in this country, data indicating the need for people to be safe. So what are the social circumstances and needs of our government's priorities in the year ahead? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u53	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Dear Member Kustec Lipicer! True, the indicators are very positive, but not just economics and those that focus most. Let me just mention that already in 2015 we spent most of our expenditure on social protection, 17.4% of gross domestic product, and 6.7% of GDP on health. We're taking this story forward in a very balanced way. What are the priorities for this year? We have appointed them in the Government by individual ministries, and they are very large. There's going to be a lot going on, we're going to build, we're going to rebuild roads, we're going to rebuild railways, we're going to do a lot of things. But what I want to stress is this. First – safety, second – health, third – infrastructure modernisation, fourth – youth. Let me start with security. We all know that, due to changed international circumstances, we need to make more efforts to ensure security for our citizens and citizens in Slovenia. We see what is happening around us, closer and longer than we are, so we are also increasing the resources for the police, for the military, for the intelligence activities, so for the Owl, we are modernising these structures, developing them and adapting them to the challenges of the present time. This will also bring security in other areas, such as road transport and so on. But what is essential is that fundamental security, which is the assumption that we can then enjoy fundamental human rights. For if there is no security, there is no freedom of movement. If there is no security, there is no freedom of opinion; then the society squeezes into some fear, the economy does not work, the subsystems do not work, we are in a jam. That is why security is so important, so we will be very active here to ensure it. Health care. We have been waiting two decades for reform. Now, after the first steps, we have entered its key phase. The laws will soon come to the National Assembly. We know what I am talking about, what the whole package of reform laws is now on the table, in public debate, in recent coordination, in government, some are already in the National Assembly. And now, together, the government and the Members, we will have to take that decisive step to renovate, after so many years, some practices that are no longer appropriate, some system that needs to be reformed. And here I appeal to all of you, as well as to other stakeholders, including those in health care and everywhere, that we are constructive, that we help each other; and not that, as we sometimes do here and there, we adapt. We need to get in here together, do something for our people. We're all the ones we can be today, tomorrow's patients. Do something for our doctors, nurses, technicians, midwives, all those who work in health care so we can go as a society normally. And here there will be a very strong emphasis, and especially on reducing waiting lines. This is something that we are already working on intensively and I expect the first visible results in the coming months. Modernisation of infrastructure is extremely important because we know that around 50% of Slovenian roads, when we adopted this mandate, were lasting. The renovations are very intensive on rail infrastructure on the road, we are connecting our Slovenia to be green enough, and yet we will be connected; this is important for the economy. This is also important for road safety, which I have already mentioned. In short, we improve this infrastructure and then we go to individual projects. You can ask the inhabitants of Kočev, for example, what it will mean for them to modernise the railway line, so that after almost 50 years of absence passenger transport and modernisation will be restored, i.e. better flow for freight transport and so on. Then these are specific matters. And, of course, the second track. We are at a crucial stage when we are establishing a final public financial structure, now that we are working intensively to go to the call for European funds when we are preparing a call for preparatory work. This year, they're gonna have to run. Then there are young people here. A guarantee for young people. Only in 2017 will we allocate 62 million for the Youth Guarantee programme. The apprenticeship – as the first government, we have introduced something that is crucial to the economy over a long period of time. Practicing that professional knowledge will be competent, that young people will be faster employed, and that companies will have immediate access to young workers, trained and well-being. We have programmes to promote entrepreneurship and support. Just yesterday, we gave an additional 2.2 million for children and youth sports representatives, so that young people will also be healthier to become more involved in society. I believe in young people and young people bring optimism [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u55	Dr. Simona Kustec Lipicer, you have the floor to request a reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u56	Thank you very much, President. I'm guessing you're running out of time. For this reason, I would take this opportunity to give you a few more minutes; not as much for you as for citizens and citizens. We all need to hear together what the plans for a better tomorrow of our government are. What I would like to say in the end, the President, you, the government team, to all of us here, and especially to the citizens and citizens, is that I wish, on behalf of the entire Party's Group of the Modern Centre, a good, coherent and, above all, a cooperative and patient year 2017. [[advertising from the hall]] At the same time, I pledge that our Group of Members will work together in such policies in a unified and constructive manner this year for this country and for its people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u57	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u58	Thank you very much. To all those who find this thought amusing to be coherent and united in 2017, I would say this – if we do not, we will not do enough for our citizens. That's why it hurts me personally when I look at that smile, it means you. Even though I understand that we are coming into some pre-election period, I believe that we must work together during this period, for our citizens and citizens, for our young people. What, though, should they think if they see some ridicule them in this way, how we will be compatible? I think that at least in key matters, even though we are promoting each other in the pre-election period that will come this year or the second year, we need to do more. I haven't had enough time before. I could talk about these priorities for an hour. In 2017, we will spend 200 million euros to rebuild state roads and 200 million euros to rebuild and build railways. Especially the second track project, which is additional to that. That is why I also went to the Czech Republic, Poland in the past days, to receive further support for this project, which is also demonstrated by Slovakia and Hungary, with which we are in constant daily contact. We work for the future of Slovenia. And to whom it seems amusing, funny, or cynical to think about it. I believe we have to do these key things this year. I mentioned health care, young people. For the first time in six years, we spend more money on science. If science is not developing, there is no economic development if it does not work well with the economy – the same. If there is not enough investment and support to develop science, if there is not enough money for students and for studies, we will not have successful generations coming after us. For example, this is such a measure, and I could count many more. I thank you for this additional opportunity to speak, but I would say that just when I'm talking about young people. With many young people – and with them, I am very happy, not only with young entrepreneurs or researchers, but also with those high school students who are innovative, who are glowing, whose eyes are spreading beautifully when they have the idea of doing something for this society and for themselves – I see what I would like to see in all: more optimism, more confidence. Because the Slovenians are still able and we know, all we have to do is develop this atmosphere in society so that we can do projects to work together. I believe that it is with these government priorities and with many others; also by bringing important investments into Slovenia. You know we're bringing Magna, Yaskawo and so on. These are jobs, this is proof that Slovenia is becoming a country with the respect that the most prominent Japanese, Canadian companies, multinationals with reputation, with good business models that will bring jobs, come to us. And we'll work on it, and we'll work on a lot. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u59	I thank the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the answers provided. Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would ask you if you would remind the President of the Government or invite us to give a reminder in which we should agree: in non-compliance with the Constitution, in non-compliance with the decisions of the Constitutional Court; in support of non-implementation of health reform and breach of commitments, you have yourself set dates at a press conference and there is nothing to do with that. Will we agree to tolerate the use of classified official acts in anti-citizens proceedings and so on?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u61	What's procedural here?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u62	Mr President, it is unnecessary and pointless to call on anyone in general to be compatible. Define things and then call upon all those who sit here to be consistent with good projects [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u63	It is not meant to be procedural; you are discussing with the President of the Government and in fact nothing procedural [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u64	I urge you to ensure that we get the ground [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u65	No, this is a pure abuse of procedural procedure for a substantive debate that I will no longer allow in this national assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u66	Then we're just talking nonsense. Okay, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u67	You've told me everything about yourself. Procedurally, Mr. Franz Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. And don't let my colleague Simona blame me, but this procedural question has been raised to me for a while, and it's been on my mind a number of times. Above all, when Members and Members address citizens and citizens. In the past, at least as far as I am Member of the National Assembly, at least in the first and second mandates this has not been done. Citizens and citizens don't get talked out of benches, they get the words you say. Now it's a general practice. And I would like to have one of the next meetings of the College to talk about this matter and say yes or no.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u69	I will accept this procedurally to speak at a meeting of the College, preferably first at a preparatory meeting of the College, because if you would challenge me to be defined now, that would not be good. In accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we turn to the questions raised at the 25th meeting of the National Assembly. Minister of Justice Mag. Goran Klemenčič should answer Dr Vinko Gorenak's question regarding the legal proposals of the Ministry of Justice and Dr Franca Trček regarding the writing of legislation by order of global corporations. Today, however, the Minister is absent from his participation in the informal meeting of the Council of the European Union for Justice and Home Affairs in Valletta. I'm asking the MP if you insist on an oral response, or do you want a written reply from the minister? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u70	Yeah, lips, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u71	Get up. The Minister will answer your question orally at the next meeting of the assembly. We are moving on to questions from Members of Parliament and Members in the first round. Mr Franz Breznik, you have the floor to ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Zdravek Počvalšk, and Mr Karl Erjavac, Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u72	Thank you very much. From bragging we come back to the real problems, to the real sector, the sector that most adds to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. This is mainly the export sector and the people working in Western markets. My question, honourable Minister, Minister of Economy and Minister of Foreign Affairs, concerns the letter received on 10 January 2017 by the Chamber of Commerce and Chamber of Commerce concerning the problems of our tradesmen, carriers and other people working in the field of the Republic of Austria. With regard to the problems introduced by the so-called Lohn- und Sozialdumping-Bekämpfungsgesetz, introduced on 1 January 2017 and severely restricting it, we can say that it even discriminates against Slovenian workers, Slovenian entrepreneurs, Slovenian carriers in the field of the Republic of Austria. Let me say that he works in the Republic of Austria for more than 100 companies, about 20,000 individuals from Slovenia. This legislation introduces a number of laws, notably introducing a stricter system of guarantees to be paid by an undertaking or a contracting entity in the event of irregularities. Another problem is that these guarantees may also affect business operations in the sense that companies have to provide, thus undermining the liquidity of companies. [[…]] We have cases where the authorities prescribe certain security of EUR 35 000 and penalties, which are mostly not 50 per cent of the time, but percentages of the new system; say, €11 000 in fines of, say, 35,000 euros in security and so on. I ask both ministers, the Minister for the Economy and the Minister for the Interior: What have they done with regard to their portfolio at this time for businesses affected by the abnormal penalties? The neighbouring Republic of Austria is preparing sophisticated bureaucratic barriers for these companies and their inspectors from various areas are often misinterpreting laws. This was also found by the Vouk law firm in neighbouring Austria, which mostly represents our entrepreneurs. I want to know: What are the first measures taken by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and, above all, by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? Thank you very much, Minister, for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr Karl Erjavec, Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be the first to respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u74	Thank you so much for saying that. On my part, I welcome everything, but in particular, I also thank you for the question. I can say that we have been dealing with this problem all the time, that is to say since the entry into force of the new law on the prevention of payment and social dumping; since then, our entrepreneurs have encountered very serious problems. That is why we have decided to connect with the Ministry of Economy, including the Ministry of Infrastructure, because here also carriers have their problems. We are also in constant contact with the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Chamber of Commerce of Styria, because we discussed this issue last year because there was already a fear that different treatment would begin under this law. The question here is whether the legal provisions of this new law and the implementation of this law are harmonised and in accordance with the practice of the rules of internal law of the European Union. Therefore, our first step was to provide comprehensive information at the Embassy in Austria in Vienna for all our entrepreneurs, what these new requirements of the law are, what they need to take care of; especially because we found that inspections by Austrian authorities have been strengthened when it comes to Slovenian entrepreneurs. In their protection, the first thing is that they have all the necessary documentation, everything that this law requires. I must say that individual entrepreneurs have also complained about this and represent them – here they are in contact with our Consulate General in Celovac – the Bar Association of Grilc Vouk Škof from Celovac. I can say that we are in constant contact with the embassy of neighbouring countries, particularly the Czech Republic, Poland, Slovakia and Hungary, because they have similar problems. We also turned to the Austrian Embassy in Slovenia and asked them for certain explanations relating to this law and its implementation. In particular, we have expressed concern that we have the feeling that this is a discriminatory treatment of our entrepreneurs. Let me say that this week we also had a meeting at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, where all the departments I spoke about were present, as well as the Chamber of Commerce and Chamber of Commerce. There we have also adopted certain conclusions which mean continuing to deal with this issue. In this regard, I would also like to say that we have given precise instructions to the representative of Brussels to verify what this law means to the European Union's visa. In particular, I appeal to the European Commission to expedite the handling of complaints by our entrepreneurs, because this is the right path that can allow us to determine whether this is actually a non-discriminatory treatment of our entrepreneurs by the Austrian state authorities. Now I'd like to leave the word to the Minister. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Minister for Economic Development and Technology Mr Zdravko Restoršek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u76	Dear Presidents, Members and Members of Parliament! Mr Beznik, thank you for the question on my part as well. The Republic of Slovenia has a very intensive partnership with the Republic of Austria in many areas; this also applies to close economic cooperation. Unfortunately, however, because of the situation on the ground, the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology has been working and monitoring for a long time all the factors affecting the resolution of this problem. Our companies are meeting this in Austria, namely companies providing cross-border services, and especially the transport part. The fact is that the Republic of Austria has been deliberately implementing the policy of protecting its labour market and services for a long time. This, however, works on the basis of their national legislation on the prevention of payment and social dumping; however, the way it is implemented is completely contrary to the principles of free movement of services in the internal market of the European Union.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Breznik, are you asking for an answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u78	Thank you very much. So you're monitoring the situation as I see the answers. You've met several times, especially with our Chamber of Commerce. As ministers, the other mechanisms by which you can press, in particular the Austrian government, the Austrian ministries that specialize in these areas. Firstly, it must be noted, Minister, that the Austrian courts did not ask for the opinion of the Court of Justice of the European Union before amending this legislation. With the amendments introduced by Austria since 1 January 2017, it suggests closing the market, and therefore the new situation may also lead to a possible complaint against the European Commission. Not only do they have the possibility that you are the ones who are leading bilateral agreements with the ministries in Austria, both of them, but you can appeal to the European Commission. They may request the opinion of the Court of Justice of the European Union, which is responsible for the interpretation of European legislation. And that explanation is the one that works. And here's the problem. Let me point out, Minister, some of these practices, the exacerbation of bureaucratic requirements has also deteriorated disproportionately for the smallest delinquents, for the smallest offence, that is to say one paper is missing or that it is too late to be filed. Let's say the penalties for carriers, if we're talking about carriers, under the new regime are €80,000 for the same offence, which was €700 a few years ago. I want to know more: Have you done more than meet or monitor the situation? Do you intend to do something in this direction, as I myself have suggested? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Zdravko Restoršek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u80	The new Austrian law on the prevention of payment and social dumping is after 1. 1. 2017 The seriousness of the situation has deteriorated to the extreme limits. We believe that it indirectly discriminates against our own or all foreign companies, and the law has also introduced additional disproportionate measures that restrict the free movement of services and create obstacles in the internal market. The levels of the penalties at stake have become disproportionate to the severity of the offences. The new law also covers transport that has so far been unhindered between countries. I am convinced that disproportionate requirements for posted borrowed workers in the cross-border provision of services that restrict the free movement of services and thus add obstacles to the internal market are not in favour of the Republic of Slovenia or the Republic of Austria. In this regard, I have already signed, in the coming days, the Austrian colleague, Vice Chancellor, Minister of Economy Dr Mitterlehner will receive my firm letter, in which I will take note of the difficulties of Slovenian companies and workers and of the Slovenian position on this unacceptable Austrian practice. A similar letter has already been sent by a colleague of the Minister of Infrastructure on account of this problem in the transport sector. I will propose to the Minister the establishment of an active dialogue to resolve the disagreements, and I will propose that the country harmonise with regard to all necessary administrative procedures of Slovenian companies for the cross-border provision of services and the verification protocol by the Austrian administrative authorities. Of course, as far as it remains, we are also studying, but we will do this in the end as a last resort to examining the reciprocity measures for their side. Once again, I stress that we believe that this is a step in the wrong direction. Secondly, we will also consider the possibility of bringing an action against the Republic of Austria before the Court of Justice of the European Union in accordance with Articles 90 and 159 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Once again, I stress the first step, we will do everything we can to agree, in a bilateral relationship, to improve the existing difficult situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Breznik, do you request a parliamentary debate on the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Of course I do. If we look at statistics on carriers, we need to be aware that we have about 18,000 carriers in Slovenia, whose turnover represents around 17% of the gross social product, so this is a big business. The problems they have in the Austrian market are insurmountable. Finally, I would like to state, as Mr Andrej Klobas of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry said, that we also have the European Commissioner responsible for infrastructure, Slovenia, who is listed on our charts as the most popular places; but we have never seen anything done for the Republic of Slovenia. Now's the chance. Mrs Violeta Bulc has repeatedly stated in public that transport is exempt from the system of posted workers, that there are several problems. Now I've been talking about a whole series of bureaucratic barriers, about carriers, about companies that travel to the workers. I also asked myself in the Republic of Austria and in Austrian politics. Of course, there are some black stains on our side as well. We have a whole range of people who have engaged companies that have exploited workers, have employees in Austria and do not pay them those items. Most of the time they're in court. We could use a Justice Minister here who should be with the three of you. He had to show some legal measures to sanction such companies, which are embarrassing us in other countries, where not only Slovenes, especially foreign workers, are exploiting companies. And for many reasons, Slovenians have a bad name in the Republic of Austria, and they do a great deal of damage to honest Slovenian companies, entrepreneurs in this territory. You need to move a little bit before your threshold. This is also the second part of the medal, the other side when they tell us that they have their own order and discipline, which they also require of the people who perform on this market. I am also convinced that this discipline is excessive, that it is discriminatory. This information has been coming not only for two years, but for several years, with measures interrupted. Therefore, Mr Vice-President, honourable ministers and honourable colleagues, I believe that this is a top topic for Slovenian economists and entrepreneurs in the Austrian market at the moment and that we should have a broader debate in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr Breznik, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly today, half an hour after the end of this agenda item. Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec will ask the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Peter Gasperšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u84	Thank you, Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! Mr Minister, another deadline for the submission of tenders under the CEF mechanism expires on 7 February this year. This is supposed to be one of the main sources of European funding for the second track. Just two years ago, the first Slovenian application for this tender was rejected because no clear financial structure was produced. The deadline for applying for this invitation to tender will expire in two weeks, and I assume that this design exists, that it is designed and you will present it to us today. Of course, we can't agree to one thing, and that's that it would be any kind of financial structure. What do I mean? In this way, I do not think that there is any option that the management of strategic infrastructure would bring into the hands of a foreign country or that our citizens would subsidise the railway operator if it were in foreign ownership. Therefore, my question is very simple, even in view of the statements we were able to read last week: Do you really insist that another partner in this business will be the Republic of Hungary? And if so, I wonder: With what will the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia pay this if Hungary enters this project? And what did Orban's delegation at the last meeting that happened? We know what the September applications were, if I call them, Hungarian pages. A whole bunch of tied-up businesses for their state-owned companies, especially those dealing with railways and a certain share in Luka Koper. In fact, only EUR 200 million would give Hungary control over both infrastructure and at least part over Luka Koper. These 200 million euros would probably come back quickly with these related transactions or with these subsidies. I want to know, it's very direct: What were the negotiating points at the last meeting that took place, and to what extent is this story now taking place? What could be the results of this last meeting? And above all: What will Slovenia offer and how much will it have to give for this?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Minister Peter Gaspersich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Chairman. Thank you, too, Mr Vatovac, for the question raised. First of all, if I mention the cooperation of the model itself and the participation of both our logistics companies in this project. These discussions on this cooperation, the way in which both companies, both Luke Koper and Slovenian Railways are involved, are not yet concluded and are ongoing. SDH is also involved here. Both companies are aware of the strategic importance of the project, the success of the second track project for the further development and operation of both companies, says Luke and Slovenian Railways, and are therefore willing to participate in the implementation of this project. As we say, in the context of these ongoing talks, we are looking for constructive solutions that will contribute to the success of financing this project and those solutions that will also be acceptable to both companies. So much for this part of the integration and participation of our logistics companies. With regard to cooperation with the Republic of Hungary, however, I can say what has already been communicated publicly, that this is the purpose of reaching an appropriate agreement with the neighbouring Republic of Hungary, as well as the discussions are being held and the possibilities for including cooperation among the other hinter countries are being examined, at least as regards Slovakia and the Czech Republic. In short, these discussions are also not concluded here and some final combinations, options for cooperation – in fact, we do not have this information yet to present to you here. The fact is, what has already been said since the last meeting of the two intergovernmental delegations in Budapest on 12 September, where Hungary, of course, expressed an interest in the capital entry into the port of Koper, has been made clear on our part that this option cannot, of course, be at the table. This is how we do not discuss this, i.e. the capital cooperation in Luka Koper by Hungary. However, we are looking for other solutions that would, as we say, correspond to the inclusion and financial support of these countries. These solutions are therefore concluded. We are preparing an application for a call for European funds, which will be held on 7 April. This role will be supported by all necessary evidence, and we hope that the success of this call will also be ensured. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec requires a complete response.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u88	Mr. Minister, you counted two years ago, and we know what happened. Here I wanted to hear a little bit more about this financial structure. Is it made now? And since practically two weeks before the deadline for this invitation to tender, we do not know yet, Hungary – yes, no, how? Slovenian Railways, Luka Koper – me, no, how? Both of you? Not least, it probably affects how the law will be formed, whose draft we saw last summer. I think that if this is where it starts now, and probably not just at the CEF, I think you mentioned that you would also be looking for funds for construction or for this project, there would be a slightly more concrete response. Once again, I want to know: Will this financial structure stop? If she's gonna stand there and she's gonna be locked up and that's why she's gonna be successful at this invitation, I want to know: What are the grounds? There's got to be a guarantee for that, too. So: Who's going to be the other investor, how much will he invest and so on? I'm really asking for a very direct and honest answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Dr. Peter Gaspersich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u90	Thank you very much. As regards the financial structure, this has also been reported in the public at the end of last year; therefore, a revision of the value of the project was made, and this financial structure was then set up on the basis of this audit. In short, the basic concept is that the value of the investment itself is covered from three financial sources: one is a capital injection estimated at about €400 million, which is about 40% of the value of the project. Approximately 25%, or up to €250 million, are estimated to be European funds; the remaining share will be covered by debt, projected through the European Investment Bank, together with a guarantee, through the so-called EFSI mechanism or the Juncker Fund. This capital injection of 40% of the value of the project will be made up of two parts; one part is provided by the Republic of Slovenia of EUR 200 million; these funds are already provided in the budget and, even at the beginning of January, in this regard, certain conclusions have been adopted that one part of this contribution will be made prior to the application to the European call for tender, i.e. 20 million, which will then allow the execution of the preparatory works themselves in the field. This means the arrangement of accessible routes, landfills, the transfer of certain municipal lines, in short, all that is necessary so that they can really start working on the main route. [[…]] We are counting on these preparatory work to be done, starting with them already this year. In addition to the rest of the capital injection, talks are held with the Republic of Hungary as well as with the rest of the Länder. The Republic of Hungary is, of course, as far as possible here, they are also doing their economic analyses, so we are counting on these arrangements to happen; both Slovakia and the Czech Republic have already received letters of support for projects, and we expect Hungary to receive an appropriate letter of cooperation. [[…]] With all these documents, we then go to the European funds application and all that has been said, so we are counting on the maturity of this project to be demonstrated by our applications. As it is said, we have a building permit, an established company, a financial structure, as it is said, is appropriate, but of course we have to fold it. European funds also need to be acquired, of course also to obtain a loan, and when all of this is achieved, we will also start building.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u91	Thank you very much. You're not asking? Okay. Mr Simon Zajc will ask the Minister of Health, Miley Kolar Celarc. I have to find out that the Minister isn't here. You have two options; either cancel the answer and ask it at the next meeting or ask a question. If you ask a question, please define yourself by the way you answer it: in writing or orally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u92	I don't think it makes any sense if she's not here to ask me a question, so I'm going to give up, and I'm going to ask a question at the next meeting, which I'm probably going to expand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat will ask Minister Peter Gasperšić a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, Dr. Peter Gasperšič! The situation on Slovenian railway lines on a wide range of sections requires rehabilitation and upgrade. This is why the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Infrastructure for the upgrading of signalling devices on the sections of the railway line Zidani Most-Sentilj awarded a public contract. From the tender documentation, the contract specification indicates that the contractor has replaced the existing relay device with a new electronic signalling device, into the renovated spaces – this is a new signalling space – with the installation of a new electronic signalling device and with the connection to the new power supply. With regard to the invitation to tender in question, and in particular with regard to the direction of the Republic of Slovenia for the technical upgrade of Slovenian railways with signalling systems to you, Sir, I refer to several questions: Is the upgrading of signalling devices specified in that public contract rational and in accordance with the principles of a good master? Have all the possibilities of upgrading signalling devices been overplayed? Are the annual maintenance costs of hardware and software taken into account? Is Slovenia heading towards a single signalling system on the entire rail network system? Have the life-saving benefits of electronic components been taken into account compared to relay systems? How much will we gain from the flow of traffic through the implementation of this public contract? How long will it take? How long does it take to pick up the speed of trains? How much will the axle load increase? Has the contracting authority considered additional possible errors in the interfaces? Will such a system be easier to maintain, upgrade and repair? Upgrading of signalling devices is likely to take place after stages, which can theoretically and practically mean that equipment from different manufacturers will be installed on the entire track. However, integration of the system can be done through interfaces, which may mean additional disruptions, especially the safety risk that I do not talk about maintenance costs. Mr. Minister: What is the assessment of the difference of value between the contract and the contract, which would require a technically optimum and a financial rational upgrade with minimum costs and guaranteed flawless functionality for another 20 years? Thank you very much for your answers, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u95	The word is given by the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Peter Gasperšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u96	Thank you, Chairman. Thank you, too, Mr Horvath, for asking a question or a series of questions — I think ten of them together — regarding the execution of this public order to upgrade the signalling devices on the sections of the railway line from the Wall Bridge to Šentil. The question or my answer is very technical in certain places, but I will try to do my best and answer it as quickly as possible, and I hope that we can succeed. With regard to this first question, as regards the specification of the upgrade, I can say that this upgrade is rational and in accordance with the principle of a good master. The contracting authority’s objective was to combine all necessary upgrades of signalling devices into one common public procurement and thus achieve technology unification and thus a greater volume of work and thus greater competitiveness and lower prices. With regard to the second question on the review of all possibilities for upgrading these signalling devices, I can say that in this case it is the main corridor, which is part of this international corridor, where it is necessary to install modern electronic signalling devices, which also offer a number of advantages, with which we equipped other sections of the main lines, such as Ljubljana to Sežana, as well as the state border from Kopra to Divaca, from Prague to Ormož and from Ormož to the border itself at the Centre and to Hodoš. The needs and benefits of signalling devices have already been weighed in upgrading these routes. Electronic signalling devices enable easier maintenance, and in particular comply with the latest guidelines and European electrotechnical standards, which is important for these corridor connections. Were the annual maintenance costs taken into account? This has, of course, been taken into account, both the maintenance of hardware and software has been taken into account in the public procurement and is also included in the criteria, so that tenderers are motivated to offer as little costs as possible in this segment as possible. Is Slovenia heading towards a single system in the field of signalling devices? As mentioned above, it is the purpose of the uniformity of the operation of these signalling devices. The infrastructure manager also produced detailed functional specifications specifying the operation of these installations in the public rail infrastructure area. These specifications define a uniform principle for the operation of signalling devices, irrespective of the manufacturer. In short, it is a functional requirement, at a later stage all upgraded stations on this track can also be included in the Maribor traffic management centre with a uniform mode of operation. With regard to taking into account the lifetime of electronic components compared to relay systems, I can say that the costs of living in this public procurement are respected and are also part of the criteria. Given that demand for real-estate technologies is decreasing, the risk of long-lived relay devices in these circumstances is relatively increasing or increasing. There is an increase in demand for electronic devices in our and wider environment, so we expect greater competition and greater standardisation in this area and thus lower maintenance, processing and upgrade costs. How much will we gain on the flow? With regard to speed flow – these parameters are, of course, strongly influenced by construction works to upgrade stations and compartments. However, the technical requirements for signalling devices take into account these upgrades, these higher speeds and thus also as a whole ensure that these corridor targets are achieved after the load capacity, length of trains, higher speed and so on. Thus, this increased track capacity is adequately ensured, and accurate data, for what, it should now be obtained. Has the contracting authority considered additional possible errors in the interfaces? Of course, these interfaces are also subject to certification procedures, testing and everything related to them to ensure the safety of the interface and thus to the participation of these different types of devices, which is common practice on other European rail networks as well. Will such a system be easier to maintain and upgrade? Of course, maintenance of electronic devices is easier, it takes less time, as modern diagnostic systems are in place, allowing a detailed view of the state of the electronic device and consequently less required activities in the maintenance and correction of errors or individual failures [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u97	Mr. Joseph Horvath, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you very much for your answers. I see, Mr Minister, that you have prepared the answers very carefully, so I would like to give you a chance and please answer the unanswered questions. In particular, for this section of the Zidani Bridge-Sentilj, I believe that your technical experts have examined what is now technically the best solution and, of course, from a financial point of view, is the optimal solution. All I can do is trust that decision. Of course, we are members of the European Union, an order must be made public on the EU portal and so on, we both know that. However, we also have our own domestic legislation, which unfortunately cannot favour domestic producers, which we would probably both like if we have sufficient qualifications – personally, I think we have them. Of course, it would be my desire to have some kind of show up here to implement Slovenian knowledge. Once again, I understand and respect European legislation and, of course, the contracting authority must respect it. But I would be happy, Mr. Minister, if you could send me your answers that you have prepared, even in writing.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u99	Peter Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure, you have the floor to complete the response.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u100	Thank you very much. I also agree that the main objective of such a procurement is to ensure that all potential tenderers are given the same opportunity to cooperate in meeting these functional requirements as the contracting authority has foreseen for the operation of the whole rail system. I hope that Slovenian producers, suppliers, suppliers can also find their cooperation in this tender and that they can also be successful with their competitive offers. If I can really just finish it, I don't have much left, the two questions were still open from that set of 10 questions. Finally, as regards the upgrading of these signalling devices in terms of phase, assemblies and so on, and what this means for any different equipment which could occur over time. By unifying technology and these functional requirements, we have also created a single order for several of these upgrades. In short, in the context of this order we also want to cover individual stages. However, the same option will be given in the future, and the relevant interfaces will have to be provided, if necessary, for the requirements for the operation of these interfaces and their certification, but I think I have already responded. Finally, the key question is what is the assessment of the value of one or the other decision; it is said whether to go with relay technology, i.e. electric relay, or whether it is completely electronic. We have a knowledge assessment based on design censuses, as well as experience from past processing and upgrades on our railway network, and I can serve with information that the cost of upgrading signalling devices with this electric relay technology at three stations and three inter-compartmental sections was approximately EUR 24 million, while for electronic devices in this public contract there were 10 stations and 10 sections between stations estimated at EUR 45 million. So if we convert this to one station, one section is 5 million for this electronic signalling equipment, and the classic, relay or older section is 8 million for the station. This also shows that this more modern technology is more cost-effective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Žnidar will ask the Minister of Finance, who is rightly absent. So, Mr. Žnidar, do you want an oral or written answer? I give my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In view of the absence of the Minister, I will ask today a question and I would like to be answered orally at the next meeting. My question, however, relates to the introduction of the tax registers one year ago and here I am asked whether this introduction of the tax box was an experiment on the taxpayers' shoulders or whether it was actually a benefit for the country itself. However, it shows that, at the time of the review of the financial indicators, the country has not achieved the key objectives set by it by the introduction of the tax registers. For the Ministry of Finance has promised 75 million new taxes collected in 2016. Realistically, last year there were around €50 million in revenue, with VAT inflows since last year. Of course, this is not at the expense of introducing tax registers, but we must be aware that last year, 2.3% of real economic growth, that last year was more than 3% nominal growth in gross social product, was around 3% growth in final household consumption last year and was also 2% growth in final government consumption, and a total of 50 million more revenue. It's such a mess! Taking a look at the impact of introducing tax receipts on the grey economy. It is true that last year the number of employees was increased by 25 000 600. Let us ask ourselves, ‘ Is it not at all or in a very, very small percentage at the expense of the introduction of tax bills? ’ Of course, this information cannot be obtained. In my opinion, the tax credit experiment was a major administrative burden for all participants. For this reason, I ask the Minister of Finance: What are the results of tax receipts after one year of compulsory use? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u103	Thank you very much, Mr. Žnidar. As you said before, you will receive an answer at your next meeting. Mr Daniel Krivec has the floor to ask the question of a Member of Parliament to the competent Minister for Slovenians in place and around the world, Mr Gorazd Žmavc. Mr. Guilty, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u104	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Nice greeting to the ministerial team, especially Minister Gorazd Žmavac! I will ask the question in connection with cross-border cooperation. Before the new year, there were many meetings with the Germans on our side and also on the Italian side and most of these informal talks revolved around cross-border cooperation and the problems involved. In my questions to the Members, I have already warned the Minister, the Ministry and other departments in the past about the new financial perspective and the importance of respecting certain rules and some of the conclusions that have been in the previous financial perspective and which in some way pre-condition for this cross-border cooperation to be established at a slightly higher level or to remain at all, since the conclusion in all these interviews was that this cross-border cooperation was even in decline in the last period and that this would lead to problems mainly in this borderline. That's why I'm asking the Minister: What operational programmes for cross-border cooperation are currently under way? It points out many times that this cross-border cooperation is a prerequisite for greater economic development in this area: Which and how many of them are actually already taking place in this new financial perspective? How is the cooperation strategy between the Republic of Slovenia and indigenous national communities implemented in our neighbouring countries in the field of economy by 2020 adopted? In fact, for the implementation and monitoring of the strategy, a specific working body has been set up, which is managed and coordinated by the Office, according to the Ministry’s response. This office or this working body shall monitor the preparation and reviews of projects for cross-border cooperation. In the responses I received just before the new year, there were some interesting points: in the new financial perspective 2014-2020, as so far, the Office will strive to reduce administrative barriers to European funding. The answer to a question about small projects was: The Office for Slovenians, in place and around the world, will in the future, as it has done so far, draw the attention of the institutions and the main stakeholders in European cross-border cooperation to the special attention which must also be given to smaller and less demanding projects. The Office will also continue its efforts to fund small projects. As I said, in all these re-enhanced meetings, there were a lot of comments by the Slovenians on these very small projects. That is why I am asking the Minister for answers to these questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u105	Minister for Slovenians in place and around the world, Mr. Gorazd Žmavc, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u106	Honourable Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, Honourable Minister, Honourable Member Daniel Krivec! I am extremely grateful for this issue, although the question is probably also addressed by the parallel SVRK, it is true to the Ministry, which is somehow the carrier of these projects for the use of European funds, but we both know and we are both somehow deriving from a local environment where we are aware through its functions and tasks that in fact this cross-border cooperation is of paramount importance for the development of less developed regions, and in particular for the development and interest of the development of cross-border cooperation where we have these opportunities for the use of European funds in particular. We are now aware that in the development of this Europe's process, cross-border cooperation has in fact become an important part of integration and development, progress being made to accelerate development in specific areas. We are also aware of this as an office and we are extremely cooperative and want to be cooperative, but we are an integral part of this article and of the cooperation chain, because we are aware that, in fact, as an office with our policy of substitution and inter-regional cooperation, we can make an outstanding contribution to the establishment of these good neighbourly relations and at the same time allow this cross-border cooperation in cooperation with neighbouring countries to be strengthened through projects financed through European funds. I must say that, of course, the office is one of the coordinators and, honourable Member, we are working very hard and we are aware of these meetings that we are establishing with the institutions of our indigenous Slovenian community and institutions, such as the scientific research institutions of the Economic Union in Trieste, Celovac, Monoster, development agencies and so on. In particular, we establish this interest that these projects are emerging and becoming co-creators, and we are actually trying to achieve these common objectives to obtain at least some European or European funds. The programmes of this cross-border cooperation are now under way, and I must say that these things do not run as we would like. I fully agree with the Member and this question also means some support in our further activities and efforts to other sectors and institutions, but I think that this programme of cross-border cooperation is now in these four areas, this is the cross-border cooperation of Slovenia-Hungary we can say that, at the moment, the project led by the Slovenian Development Agency is a project aimed at the development of tourism in Use, namely in the design of green parks, that it is in implementation that we have one project in this Slovenian-Hungary project in preparation for 2014-2020, the institution of the Slovenian Development Agency, which deals with the tourism development of cross-border areas in partnership with the Agricultural and Economic Institute in Maribor. We then have several projects on the programme of cross-border cooperation of Slovenia-Croatia in the evaluation phase, in particular for the development of sustainable cultural tourism of cross-border areas, on these projects of the joint development of the regions in Varaždin, the institution of which is the Slovenian Cultural Society Nagelj. Then we have a partner in a project where Lipa, Buzet is a carrier of Gosli, music, clothing, the modernity of human tradition and so on. The Office for Slovenians around the world, somehow with the Destination programme – in cooperation with the projects, will also work together with societies – also cooperates across borders between Slovenia and Croatia, also contributes to balancing the development and promotion of tourism in the region through the preservation and protection of the development of natural and cultural heritage will also be offered, particularly in the area of the Mountain Kotar. As far as the programme and cross-border cooperation of Slovenia-Austria are concerned, I must say that there is one project currently carried out by the Society of Cultural Park – and it is a geopark or a geopark project designed to protect cultural heritage – and 5,6 projects in the implementation phase.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Daniel Krivec, you have the floor to request a complete reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u108	Thank you to the Minister for this review, but it has been clear from this review that the question is still on the ground, the operational programme and the other cooperation is not at some high level. In fact, no project has been mentioned with Italy, there is one project with Austria, and everything else is in preparation. But we are already in 2017, it is said, more than half the financial perspective. I have been pointing this out since 2014, and it is clear from these questions and the answers of the ministries that the matter does not work. Above all, the problem is that these small projects, which link the actual entities in our and the neighbouring country at this lower level, are simply no longer taking place. An interesting answer just before the new year was also about the cooperation of our ministries, where there is no more 10 % of participation, because in my opinion, in some way, our country's control of these projects has been exercised in some way. An interesting answer from the ministry, where it says that this system has been abolished, is that the allocation of national funds also means ensuring adequate control in the contractual relationship – which I agree with; what I am also stressing – which cannot be implemented in the existing administrative apparatus. And that, according to the assessment of these services, it is better for beneficiaries to receive less funding, the state to withdraw and so on. The reason was that the Ministry or those involved in this cross-border cooperation could not control these projects and therefore there was no 10 % participation. Thus, I am genuinely concerned about this cross-border cooperation, and all these answers only confirm that in the last period it has been quite dead and that this fear, which we have somehow rightly received at these meetings before the new year, is still needed in the right place and certain questions will be needed.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u109	Minister Gorazd Žmavc, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u110	Dear Member! I fully agree with you that this needs to be accelerated. We will do everything, we are also aware that there are a lot of administrative obstacles here, that there are a lot of open questions about how much operationally these projects are being co-operated and then final solutions are blurring. However, the honourable Member, with our policy as an office, will do our utmost to include ourselves more actively in these perspectives, at least to catch this 2018, 2019 and 2020 – because we think this is a key objective, in particular in this objective, that we try to obtain as much European funds on these soft projects as possible, even for the interests of the foreign Slovenians, because this is also a greater guarantee that we will not only be based on these budgetary resources, but in fact that we are also giving through these European funds a greater opportunity to give the foreign Slovenians a greater opportunity of a social and economically stronger partner. So continue to count on us as that office that will insist on this and through our societies and institutions that are working with us have actually put pressure on the Ministry, which is responsible for cohesion and at the same time on the institution of the system, especially in removing administrative obstacles, and I will also try to do this as a representative of the Government much more aggressively in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u111	Mrs Nada Brinovšek will address Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc with a question of her delegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u112	Thank you for your word, lovely greeting to everyone. Look, the key priority of this government is health. That's what we heard from the Prime Minister this morning. But in the coalition contract, the coalition has a coalition between the measures listed in the 6 health measures – none of these measures have yet been implemented. In the normative work programme for 2015-2016 you have listed 15 laws, but the implementation of this, all that is, are 4 laws and a resolution, but in the normative work programme for 2017 you have only the Health Act, the Health Insurance Act and long-term care. Look, you don't have the Patient Rights Act, you don't have the Public Health Services Act, you don't have the tobacco law that we got here this month on the bench. Not to mention here the Mental Health Act, which is still very important, because we know that about 500 people commit suicide each year. So, the normative programs, I'd say that's quite something for you. [[…]] Minister, I am very interested and I ask you and I ask you to give me exactly your suggestions this year, which you will make in 2017, as a matter of priority here in the National Assembly. Please also: Can you give me a little time when these three laws you have in the normative program will see the light of the world? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u113	The Minister of Health, Mrs Milojka Celarc, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u114	Thank you for this question, Mrs Brinovšek. All hail, Vice-President of the National Assembly, Members and Members of Parliament! I will begin with a sentence which I have repeated several times that this word health reform has been misused. Why? Because everyone under that term represents something else. Some imagine only more money in health care, other higher wages for doctors, third privatisation of health care, and I have been working since the beginning of my term of office on measures which are, of course, composed of purely operational activities, and on system-wide legislation. You have talked about this normative programme, these are only three priorities of the Ministry of Health for 2017, which does not mean that we will not prepare or work on other measures or the preparation of system legislation. Well, if I'm just going to start listing. As you know, after 24 years, a new Systemic Act on Pharmacy has been adopted, which brings a lot of good for patients and also for providers of pharmacy services, which is equivalent to those on the market. You also know that the new Tobacco and Related Products Consumption Limitation Act will also be discussed next week after nine years. I therefore assume that it will then be adopted shortly in this esteemed National Assembly. Now to move forward; as you know, I also presented after 24 years a very demanding, extensive, new, modern Law on Health Care and Health Insurance. On Monday, I present it to the Economic and Social Council, and it was also presented to the general public. The bill is scheduled for public debate on 1 February, i.e. next week. Furthermore, amendments or amendments to the Health Act; unfortunately, we have been coordinating it for too long because of the many opinions and interests of individual stakeholders. Currently, it is a new law in coalition coordination, once again, and also, as far as I am concerned, the last one, then goes to law in two weeks, one week, is February to the government. If we move on to the list now, it has to do with shortening the waiting period. The Law on Patient Rights, where the public debate was concluded, is currently undergoing intensive coordination of all comments by the public concerned. As planned, this law will go into inter-departmental coordination in February, in March, to the Government. The same as the rulebook prepared on the basis of this law. Next law. Preparation of a new Law on Quality and Health Safety. For the first time, I repeat, for the first time in Slovenia we will receive a system law regulating the quality of healthcare services and patient safety. Here, too, were the starting points of the public debate, which ended on 12 January. We review all the comments and prepare the law. This will, I will say, also this proposal, unless, of course, there are complications in coordination, in the first half of the year at hand. Next law. As you know, the Ministry of Health has taken over long-term care since 1 January. This cooperation and activities are also taking place intensively and it is envisaged that the law will go to public debate by the end of April of this year. The next system law. As you know, we have the Public Services Act 1992. This is why we are also preparing a new law on the management and management of health institutions. The starting points were ready. Last but not least, the preparation of the National Strategy for the Development of Basic Health Activities is also final. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u115	Mrs Nada Brinovšek, you have the floor to request a reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u116	Thanks for the answer, first part of the answer. Minister, I wish you a great deal of success in your work so that you can realize all of this in time, as you stated. But somehow when you said we all operate or use the word health reform, you use it yourself in the coalition. I also find it preferable to change legislation in the field of health. We agree here. But look, we've been waiting for these rare changes, or some big day, we've been waiting for 12 first. 12th, when we thought about what would happen. Nothing happened. 16. 1. - Nothing again. Here I'll read your statements then 16. One, what your coalition partners said. Simona Kustec Lipicer: “This is a health reform.” Here! Jurša, for example: “It’s very difficult to talk about what you haven’t seen and you don’t know anything about.” See, on January 19th, you said on TV: “Let me first say that today is for the ministry, and I think even Slovenia and Slovenia, a great day when you presented a document without concrete calculations in the public.” In addition, you first prepared this body in just three copies, and it happened by accident, or by accident, from coalition species to us. Minister, I once again wish that, as you have done with the timeline, this great day should indeed be welcomed in the National Assembly and, of course, in the adoption of this legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u118	Thank you. As I've said many times before, I stick to the program and my promises. The reason why this bill could not be presented after December 12th was because the coalition representatives were absent and this was not possible. One more thing, the agreement was also, of course, on the coalition, that the law actually goes to public debate and, if you want, to the general public after the coalition has been defined even to certain articles. At this top of the coalition, however, she fully supported the solutions in marriage. And there's only one more sentence I'd like to add. You know, the calculations were very large, more than 20 possible options and they are all you need to understand that after this law on financial effects is also fully aligned with the Ministry of Finance, after which the budget takes over 260 million Euros of healthcare expenditure, believe that it was not easy and that, of course, after so many years, we have managed to do something if it is adopted in such a form that it has not been done in the past 24 years. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u119	Mr Saša Tabakovic will ask the question of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Dr Anji Kopač Dark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u120	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Dear Minister! During the last month, we have witnessed various media releases concerning professional insurance or the contribution of the rate and occupational pension, resulting from the pension plan which entered into force on 1 January this year. In these publications, or in these media publications, various claims were made that the reduction in the rate of contribution that is expected to occur threatens the social security of many workers. As a result, certain representatives of workers, including soldiers, policemen, including miners, also gathered before your ministry days ago. As you know, I am the Member who was elected in Velenj, and I have also been approached by the representatives of the miners' workers. As you know, Velenje is a city that gives miners actually bread, and in this letter or call they have expressed concern, so here I am also addressing you. When we talk about these workers, we know that they are workers who work in the health of harmful jobs or who carry out professions that are no longer able to perform quality or reliability after a certain age. We also have such professions in the field of culture, such as ballet creators. That's why I'm kind of asking you in this place: Can you explain how some misinformation, if any, occurred? And to ensure that, as is the case with the public now, the new pension plan or this regulation will not make professional pensions lower, as was the case with concern and fear, and that workers will not be harmed by their rights acquired to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u121	Minister Anja Kopač Dark, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u122	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, thank you for your input. Mr Tabakovic, Commissioner, thank you for the question. It is certainly an important issue, especially for the 44,000 workers involved in this compulsory occupational insurance scheme in our country, for whom employers pay a higher rate of contribution or pay a contribution because they work in the health of harmful jobs or in jobs that are no longer available after a certain period of time. Most of these workers are in the public system, they are mainly police officers and soldiers, some other categories are outside the public, in particular you mentioned miners, firefighters, but they are also pilots, flight controllers. In short, groups that are very different across the system. This system, which was introduced by the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which was adopted in 2000, changed the system of so-called beneficiary work periods to which these professions were entitled within the general pension and disability insurance system, to a pension, then separated, in agreement with the social partners, and is essentially the personal accounts of these insurers, which are pointed out to them by the funds paid to them by their employers. During this period from 2000 to today, this contribution rate has changed several times, managed by the SODPS within the framework of Kad and has this responsibility. So also in this way, changing the contribution rate, which is in accordance with the law after consulting the Economic and Social Council at each time the Minister of Labour, if I say so, does not create what any Minister of Labour will invent this level, but the Supervisory Committee, as well as others, must give guidance and calculations in some way. Certainly, however, this last amendment was followed by 1. 1. 2017 amendments adopted by the Pension and Disability Insurance Act 2013 and any amendments made. In fact, we've established a solidarity fund. Before that, there was no possibility of any inflows within the system, and we had a situation where a large majority of these 44,000 beneficiaries had more resources in their personal accounts than they needed for their professional retirement, and some recent calculations show that 600 people do not have enough. With regard to personal accounts, it was not possible to redistribute funds, and it was established in agreement with the representatives of these professions, the social partners, in particular the unions, to establish a solidarity fund. Without them saying they agree, that would not be possible. This is a very important moment. And secondly, this law laid down that this occupational pension received by an individual, for example, by a police officer who retires at 54 years of age, by 60 years of age when he fulfils the conditions for obtaining a pension from the Institute of Pensions and Disability Insurance, is entitled to a professional pension for six years. It was adopted by law that this occupational pension must be at least, not more than before, for example for 34 years, as long as it worked, but should be measured at least as high as it would have been in the PPIZ, i.e. for 40 years of work. We have put in place such a system that the pension must not be lower, it must not be lower professional pension, and at the same time we have set up a solidarity fund for possible transfers in those who have a mannequin. In addition, it has been presented to me personally from all sides that it is safe to reduce the contribution rate from 9.25 to 8. During these two years, it will be closely monitored what is happening, and, of course, as this is a longer period of time for people who are insured, it will rise to 9.25 if necessary and no new action is needed. Because they predicted – the key problem is that there is no trust from the workers working in these jobs, that they will not have enough money, we will meet with them again and again and again. Of course, it can also be a way for the state to cover all the flaws, but then it must also be accepted and it must be said that all the surpluses go into the state budget. Do you understand me? Solidarity is always somehow responsible and is linked to everyone involved in the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u123	Mr Saša Tabaković, you have the floor to request a reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u124	I thank the Minister very much for his reply and for his mutual understanding that we can talk about pensions, especially when we are talking about occupational pensions, that these are of course very sensitive matters. I thank the Minister for his reply, but if possible, I would ask the Ministry politely if they could also send me these replies in writing so as not to send a written question or a request for a written reply after the protocol. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u126	You'll definitely get it, that's the least of it. But it's really here that's waiting for us first of all. I don't want to have anyone in the system that thinks they're taking it on purpose so they don't have it. [[…]] I think that in some responsible way – we would not be able to lower this contribution rate in any way. However, you should know that employers have insisted on a reduction to 6% in these calculations made by Kad because employers are paying for this. At the same time, we are facing a more complex process that is behind here; the adoption of a regulation that will set out the criteria and criteria for what those jobs are that are truly harmful to health and can no longer be carried out after a certain age. You need to know that these jobs, which are today beneficial in the system, have always been in here, but that the situation of individual jobs has changed significantly. In order to be able to set as objective criteria as possible, an analysis of the disease is now being carried out in individual jobs and all these analyses, because imagine how difficult it will be to reach agreement with the social partners, because this means a substantially changed structure and also in some way the rights of workers arising from jobs as we know them today. Of course, the number 44,000 is likely to be significantly different. This may also be the answer why there has not been a health reform for so many years. It's always a question of how to unite, what are the key criteria on which to follow. This process is also very difficult. I believe that those who work in harmful jobs, all firefighters, miners, because we cannot imagine what conditions they are working in – we need to be achieved. It is also necessary to see whether everyone within the system is really those who are on the ground doing hard work, doing harmful work to health, or whether there may be a number of people in all these years who do not actually work in such jobs, but who are paid by employers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Škodnik will ask the question of the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Peter Gasperšič, which I do not see in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u128	Thank you for your word. I don't know if you'd wait, or what you'd do?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u129	We cannot wait, but if you wish, you can contact him in writing or ask a question and request an oral answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u130	No, no, I'll just read it. Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister! Maybe Mr. Peter Gasperšič is listening to me out there somewhere. I welcome all efforts and successes with regard to the second railway track of Koper-Divač. At the same time, I would point out another key development priority of this government, namely the construction of the third development axis state road between the A1 motorway and the Velenje south connection and further to Koroška, which aims to ensure conditions for more coherent regional development. It will make an important contribution to the concentration of economic development, migration and knowledge, improve the competitiveness of the area and prevent the outflow of personnel, daily migration and increased emigration of the population. In the light of the Regulation on the State Spatial Road Plan issued since the accession of Šentrupert to the A1 Šentilj-Koper motorway, until the accession of Velenje south two weeks ago, I would ask for a real timeline for the realization or implementation of the whole project of the third development axis, separately by individual connections. The section of the northern part of the third development axis Velenje–Slovenia Gradec, for example, has been spatially located for some time now and it was envisaged that activities would be carried out in 2015 to obtain environmental consent and that in 2016 it would begin to be designed and most of the documentation would be prepared in 2017 and would begin with the purchase of land. From this title, I would like to ask: Are we still following the plan presented? How far have processes been carried out to build this section or where and when do you plan to actually start building a third development axis that will improve the region's accessibility and increase transport safety and flow? On the basis of the already completed procedure of placing in the space and niche of the criticality of the said section, I would suggest that construction begin in Slovenj Gradc and proceed against Šempeter and that we build a quadruple and not a bi-passenger, as some sometimes say. This would, among other things, solve the problem of winter cleaning, which would be more priority in the case of modern road infrastructure. The region is currently only further crippled, as instead of two hours of journey to Ljubljana, it takes up to eight hours. In this tumult last week or fourteen days ago, the snowstorm lasted even to [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u131	Minister Peter Gasperšič, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u132	Thank you, President, for your word. Thank you, Mr Ivan Škodnik, for asking the question. With regard to the project of the northern part of the third development axis, I can note with satisfaction that the project is taking place successfully and with the planned dynamics, especially due to the fact that the Government has adopted this so difficult expected Regulation on the State Spatial Plan at the beginning of this month and has thus provided accommodation in the area of this missing section from the A1 to Velenje motorway. This also means that further activities can also take place intensively and smoothly at this section and also further in the previously located section from Velenje to Slovenj Gradac. A major shift in the third development axis took place in 2015 when we identified the way the project was implemented and the funding model itself. At that time, it was decided that in this section it would be a toll road to be an investor of Dars, who also financed and operated all toll roads in the Republic of Slovenia. As early as 2015, Dars was ordered to further verify the economic viability of the project itself and to this end, the production of an elaborate entitled Addressing the possible scenarios for the construction of a new road link at the section from A1 to Velenje and to Slovenj Gradac. The purpose of this technical basis was to determine the possible stage of construction and to verify the different performance scenarios in relation to the construction costs themselves. It was found that the economic eligibility assessment requires additional calculations of long-term multiplier effects, which are determined in a way that all possible scenarios can be verified in terms of long-term economic effects across the region, with which this road link can then be adequately developed. These calculations have been carried out and, on the basis of this, the above mentioned laboratory of these possible scenarios is now in the upgrade phase and this activity is expected to be completed within one month. This laboratory will also result in a proposal for the most appropriate scenario in terms of the project's preciseness and thus the construction phase. This will be followed accordingly by the precise planning of the construction dynamics themselves. With the stage of these preparatory works, which still needs to be done, this is the design of documentation projects, land acquisitions and construction permits, and Dars as an investor of the construction plan for the implementation of the 2017 concession; that is, for these activities, for the production of project documentation for both sections – this is from Šentrupert to Velenje and also from Velenja to Slovenj Gradac – the funds for land acquisition, i.e. real estate, are provided in the state budget on the dedicated item to which Dars also indicates compensation for the establishment of building rights for motorways and fast roads. In line with this planned dynamics, it is then envisaged in 2018 to obtain a building permit – construction permits, probably more – and to publish construction invitations. The aim is to ensure that all these preparatory works are carried out as synchronized as possible and that they take place throughout the course of the A1 motorway all the way to Slovenj Gradac, so that further activities on both sections can be as coordinated as possible. If I finish. Once again, the aim in 2018 is to obtain building permits for as many of these sections as possible of the now located route, and in line with this will be followed by building dynamics. More detailed phase plans will also be developed, so today, unfortunately, on this detailed part of the question, unfortunately, I cannot give a precise answer yet. So then what are the sections going to be like, what will be the order of construction? But as it is said, the aim is to obtain building permits by the end of 2018. This will then enable the call for construction and only the construction of these sections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u133	Mr. Ivan Škodnik, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u134	Thank you very much. I didn't finish it before. I mentioned a problem that occurred 14 days ago when the snow came down and the collapse occurred. That's also when people called me on the phone, asked me about the Roads Directive, and I got the answer that it was more of an unfortunate set of circumstances. I don't think such an answer is appropriate, and perhaps the minister would try to answer that now. That's one thing. However, since the road from Slovenj Gradc to Velenje has been placed in the space for some time now, I would ask the Ministry to start cutting off from this part by preparing documentation, so that construction on this work from Slovenj Gradac would start earlier. That's it. I would ask if you could give me a written answer and if you could also list the terms — where possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u135	Minister Peter Gasperšič, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u136	Thank you very much. I suggest that you really have a more detailed response with forward-looking plans, where this can already be specified precisely enough to be provided in writing. With regard to this part of the issue, which dealt with the problem of road cleaning and transport, particularly in the Think tank, during this last snowing, I can only say what has been said several times before, that it was a web of unpleasant weather conditions, where very cold roads, due to very low temperatures in the transition period, followed a short wave of warming caused by rain, rainfall in the form of rain that washed the already salty roads, so that after the rain had changed again into snow, salt did not work on these submerged roads as it should and quickly occurred to freeze these roads. In short, we know that this can happen in extreme cases, and in all these events we will gain some experience. At the Ministry, we have already instructed that in future, when such conditions can be expected, in particular on these critical sections of roads, both road services and police services should be properly prepared and pre-arranged to ensure that freight traffic does not stop at the slaughterhouses themselves, but that they are either previously eliminated or released only by those equipped with appropriate winter equipment that will ensure transportability under such conditions. Thus, trucks will certainly have to equip themselves with chains in such cases, because we have seen that, otherwise, if they did not really have the best winter tires, they could not go any further in such situations. In short, instructions have been given to prevent these critical sections of the team from being adequately teamed by both the winter service and the police, and to ensure that traffic in such situations runs as little as possible. Of course, without any disturbances and slowing down and adjustments, that is to say, such a situation, but also with the best implementation, it cannot be ensured. In any case, in any case, account must be taken of certain situations that slow down traffic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u137	Dr. Vinko Gorenak will ask the Minister of Justice a question. Goran Klemenčič, who is duly absent. Here you go, Dr. Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u138	Thank you very much. That's the second time, so a man waits three months for an answer. But, okay. The public is more or less aware of the fact that for several years I have been dealing with the issue of Mr Boštjan Škrlec, Director General of the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office, which became one day before the arrival of the Janša government. Interestingly, in 2012, exactly one day before the appointment of the other government, the Attorney-General found that he urgently needed a secretary-general. And you won't believe the proceedings took place within 4 hours; in 4 hours he was appointed, because also Minister Zalar felt the need to provide him with a job. Well, then many instances were involved, the case was dismissed by the Administrative Court and even recorded in the judgment that they had abused power — says the Attorney General and then Minister Zalar. And this judgment is legally binding. Mr Klemenčič also dealt with this as the head of the KPK and found that they acted corruptly. So, the Attorney General and the former Minister. The judgment was annulled by the Administrative Court and Mr Štefanec found the same story. But the Administrative Court has rescinded the story. Well, now the police have taken part in the case, and last April the police filed a criminal complaint against the current Attorney General and former Minister Zalar. Slovenian media do not report this. It's as clear as day. Four cut tires are reported; this is news of the day, and the same day, when it was discovered that the two were covered, they were not reported at all. The prosecutor, who began to deal with this in the prosecution here in Ljubljana, had a file in her hands for four or five months, found nothing and went to the judges – I mean, she decided nothing and went to the judges. The record was now assigned to a new prosecutor, who is waiting for his retirement. You won't believe it. She'll retire in May. That's why I'm asking the Minister: What will be the point of Mr. Fisher not beating the crap out of you? In fact, the prosecution against the Attorney General is being heard by his subordinates. It would be time for the Minister to be involved and, in accordance with his powers, to ensure that this criminal complaint is treated independently. That's why I'm asking the minister: What will it do to ensure timely action and a legislative decision? I'd like an oral response, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr Jernej Vrtovec will ask the Minister of Finance of the Magi a question. Matthew Vrančnik Erman, who is excused absent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u140	Thank you very much. I'm asking about the process of selling the New Ljubljana Bank. In fact, look, it's one complicated segment, a series of events. Prime Minister Miro Cerar said last year that it is imperative to reorganise the timeline of the whole process. The Journal of Finance also recently pointed out the likelihood of a renewed longer delay in the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank and, of course, it seems that our finance minister went to Brussels last week to the European Commissioner to discuss how we could postpone the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank. I'm not going to hand it over because the Minister isn't here, but I'm just going to ask you a question: I wonder why the procedures for the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank have been standing for so long? Is the plan rescheduling the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank? What was the topic of the talks in the light of this with the European Commissioner? Why does the President of the Government feel it is necessary to reorganise the timeline of the whole process? What is the planned new deadline for the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank? This is for a short time, and I expect the next session to open up a debate on this subject, because we are promising the European Commission something, and then we are going to the European Commission in Brussels to ask that we do not do that. That's very unserious in this light, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Members who are unfortunately absent are on their turn, so we will just move on to Mrs Janjo Slug, who will ask the Minister of Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u142	Thank you very much. I have also asked a written question, however, including an oral question on a similar subject; European and Slovenian legislation makes it very clear that the country must, in cooperation with local communities, say with the municipalities, prepare an air quality plan, but here also largely leaves the responsibility of the municipalities to decide how to use or implement these available air quality options. An example of a very good practice is, of course, the Ljubljana Municipality, which has provided the Ljubljana people with better air through various measures and is still working hard. Here I can expose the remote heating system, gasification, investment in sustainable mobility and so on. Air pollution – especially small PM10 particles are a very serious problem that poses a risk to human health throughout Slovenia. I highlight this most from the point of view of the Municipality of Celje. Zagorje ob Savi and Maribor are also problematic and so on. The data is truly a source of concern and is repeated, so this seems even more important to me. I'm asking the Minister: To what extent have the decisions on air quality plans adopted by the Government actually been implemented in municipalities where it is constantly perceived to exceed the maximum limit on pollution, and what are these results in these municipalities? What measures will the country take for the municipalities where the greatest excesses are detected, also continue? Is it planned to adopt new decisions on air quality plans for the next period for the municipalities with the highest overruns? What measures can the State impose on those municipalities that do not exploit or exploit and do not realize the available opportunities they have? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u143	Minister of Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u144	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! For the problems we have in air quality, I must say that these are seven areas, but they are not limited to the municipalities in these areas, although Zasavje is made up of non-urban municipalities. But it is true that there are measuring stations in these areas, air pollution is monitored, and the number of places where measurements will be carried out, of course throughout Slovenia, will increase with the implementation of the cohesion project Sinica and will then be much more realistic than is currently the case. The implementation of the Sineka project is foreseen by 2020. If we now turn to the Decree on the Air Quality Plan in the Region of the Municipality of Celje, we find that it has been implemented on a planned scale, both for those requiring investment, in particular investments where the state promotes these investments with resources, as well as for those that do not require more financial resources. This is mainly about information, awareness-raising and communication measures. As far as the country's incentives are concerned, there are two sources, the Climate Change Fund and cohesion funds, but it is true that we are somewhat behind in drawing on cohesion funds, but as I have already said, among other things, this Sine project is being implemented, but many of the incentives of the Eco Fund and these incentives are, of course, funded by the Climate Fund. As with all others, Celje is considered to be the main source of particles of a small combustion plant and transport. The strategic approach – and likely to remain for a while – is that the measures are as follows. Small combustion plants: these are measures that can be taken to reduce the need for heating heat in wintertime, or, in other words, to encourage the energy rehabilitation of buildings; to switch buildings with outdated small combustion plants to remote heating and heating with gas or wood biomass, of course, according to these high technological standards; to replace outdated combustion plants with heat pumps and modern small combustion plants; and if they remain in use of outdated small combustion plants, measures are being implemented to improve their efficiency – emission reductions. On the second pillar, namely traffic, we are talking about improving transport efficiency, developing integrated transport strategies, strengthening public passenger transport – I think there is still a lot to do in Celje – investing in cycling infrastructure and strengthening the share of cycling in transport, increasing the share of pedestrians, replacing outdated engines, urban passenger vehicles and utility vehicles with Euro 6 emission-grade vehicles, including gas vehicles, electric motors. And the implementation and production of mobility plans for all major public sector and economy business entities. If we now look at the economy and the support measures for the successful implementation of air quality plans. It is the transport of bulk loads and loading and prevention of dust. In Cel we also had, we know, the implementation of the rehabilitation of the land at the old Zincarna, and there also had to be taken into account many elements that prevented pollution. The regulation of open areas, including in Celje, is also something else, greening cities, awareness-raising and education, creating a special web portal for air quality, reducing fireworks – I do not know how Celje was successful here, but in those hours before midnight this was a huge burden – and all municipal acts are taken into account and implemented measures to improve air quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u145	Mrs. Janja Sluga, would you like a word to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u146	I just wanted to find out: What measures can the State then impose on the additional municipalities if they do not take advantage of what you have just mentioned? Are there any levers, in any way? As for the adoption of a new decree for the following period, in the Municipality of Celje: Is there any way he will go, and what kind of resources will be available? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u147	Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u148	Thank you. Yes, the amendment of the decree is already being prepared and we anticipate that a new decree for the City Municipality of Celje will also be made public in the municipal council for public hearing. However, I do have some problems in the second part, so when the state forces the congregation to find out. In my knowledge of the congregation’s activities, the congregation should do its utmost to improve the quality of its environment. In doing so, my view is that the state would not be forced to do so, but this part is the subject of debate, namely, we are preparing the Environmental Protection Act and considering possible measures, but I cannot give a concrete answer today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u149	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the second round of Members and Members. I give my word to Mih Kordiš, who will ask the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič, who, as we see, is absent. I'll leave you to your judgment whether you want to set up verbally or in writing. Here you go, Mr. Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u150	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. I had two questions prepared for this meeting of the National Assembly. Now I'm going to ask the second question, and the first question was, "I'm sorry, it came out because some of the guys from the largest coalition group weren't here when they were supposed to be in line for their questions." But I was still in the office, preparing for my content, and working for this meeting of the National Assembly, and I just, unfortunately, fell out of line. And I wasn't the only one, and that's where my colleague Ferluga from SMC pulled this short one. I mean, I'm sorry, I know it's Friday, I know it's a long hard meeting behind us, but, ladies and gentlemen, you have almost 3,000 euros in salary and you have no excuse to just not be here from some mess and literally steal the debate from your fellow Members. In general, because the question of Members is such a tool where Members endure hardships, the problems of working people in this society continue to be in the ears of the executive branch of power and we try to make life easier for people and to take things away from them. All right, if I go to my specific question for the Minister of Education, this bitch over the issue of the transition from the pre-bolon system to the Bologna system, there have been a lot of problems here. In this case, however, I am particularly interested in those students who have studied two subjects, who have completed one study, who have completed a diploma — all well and well — but at the second study they failed. Then, for example, the colleges did not transfer them to the second stage of the Bologna study, but they were placed in the first stage of the Bologna study, and they were given differential exams, although they were little before the defense and could have completed their studies peacefully. Furthermore, there are individuals who have almost completed their studies last year, who want to finish by the Bologna system, and who cannot do so because they have a professional graduation, which they could once have signed up with, and now they are not allowed to do so again. Now I want to know: How will you act here to make things better? In fact, because some of the students pulled short because of the bureaucracy in colleges, the criteria were not previously very clear, and then the sections chewed a little bit and spit them out. I also know a very specific example: a degree in one direction, a degree in the other direction, but the girl missed the last deadline for the show in a few days, because they said things wrong in the department, and then they didn't want to take her diploma. There's nothing like this and now I'm interested in: How will you deal with them?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u151	Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u152	Honourable Presidents, honourable Members and Members, colleagues and colleagues! Up to 30. 9. The transitions were regulated by criteria for transitions between study programmes, which were already defined in 2010. After that, we can no longer talk about this kind of transition between study programmes, because those previous prebolonic programmes have been completed after a very long period of time. The procedure for the entry of these candidates, which is now, for example, in the application as mentioned by you, is governed by the so-called Rules of Enrollment and Implementation of the Enrollment in Higher Education, which we have adopted on 21 January, which is also the basis for further guidance on how to regulate the procedure, either by entering into a higher school or by seeking an opportunity if they have failed to complete their obligations. Speaking of two-matter studies, I must say that it has always been in place, both in prebolonic programmes and in Bologna programmes, that the candidate or candidate must always successfully complete both programmes. These are also the so-called enrollment conditions or criteria in which the candidate/candidate enters, when he also accepts the entry into the corresponding programme or first year. Only after they have actually completed all their study obligations and obtained a diploma from both programmes are they also performing completed higher education studies. However, as previously mentioned in the case of professional graduation, the entry conditions for the prebolonic programme, which was in force at the time, were not necessarily in force in the Bologna programmes. There are differences, but the fact is that each candidate/candidate must respect the registration conditions of the programme that is in force and which is entered or passed specifically in each school year. We have also received some complaints on this subject. You mentioned the case, for example, when the candidate missed a few days, apparently due to inadequate information, if I understand correctly. All these complaints have been dismissed by us to individual higher education institutions, because they are the ones who have to responsibly define what the facts were and also explain to the candidate/candidate why there has not been a procedure. This is because it is an obligation which must be made by either candidate/candidate and assessed by the higher education institution itself. In fact, after this long, multi-year period, many candidates/candidates completed their studies. It is true that the institutions – and I must say this – have put a great deal of effort and energy into the fact that as many candidates/candidates as possible have actually rounded up the old programmes or those programmes they have been going through. I think we've encouraged a lot of people. It is true that this period was not a short period of time, this was a long period, and preparations for the completion of this study were able to carry out a series of studies, and the institutions also pointed out the completion of the study earlier, not only this year or the previous year, but also years earlier. But I think we've brought a lot of people to the conclusion of the study, but maybe we wouldn't.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u153	Mr. Miha Kordish, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u154	Thank you for your word, chairman. I'm one of those cases that I've completed, and I can tell you firsthand that I don't know how many colleges have really torn up for these students, and I think they were more interested in how they're going to kill these students. However, some of the mentors went off and went to their candidates, again, my mentor is just such an example of a man who ripped himself apart for his students, including me, so that we could get it all together, which does not solve the situation of those unfortunates who are still stuck in this bike. Very specifically, you mentioned the entry conditions that change with the amendment of the programmes, and here I am interested in whether you can act. I think we both agree that this is unfair, that you practically did your studies to the end, with a professional graduation, because you could, I don't know, 15 years ago in this way, and then throw you into a bologna study or even want to finish a bologna study, and you can't do that because you only have a professional graduation because the tendering conditions have changed. I mean, it's unfair and I'm curious: Can you take action here and do you intend to act? As far as complaints are concerned, the resolution of certain procedures, the embarrassment, you've given up on higher education institutions, and I'm still interested in: Are you thinking of putting pressure on them here, catching them so that these things will happen in a just way? Since higher education institutions were also faced with a mass of students who did not eat well, many could simply fly out in these bureaucrat mills. I already mentioned a specific case of a student who graduated normally in one department, in the other department also did all the exams and diplomas, but missed out for a few days because the university bureaucrats had misspokenly told her.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u155	Madam Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u156	I would like to re-emphasize the regulation we adopted on 21 January 2017, which already answers the current situation in part of your questions. It is a matter of regulating the procedure of admission to a senior year of study program when we are talking about individuals who have failed to reach 30. 9. In order to complete their programming set, they will have to verify, for the future entry, what part of the registration conditions they fulfil and, if they do not fully meet them, that is, in accordance with the programme scheme it offers, how it will also require the recognition of previously acquired knowledge or what types of obligations it still requires to fulfil. This was in the past and is and will be under the responsibility of higher education institutions. This is about programming sets and content, which, of course, the candidate/candidate must then reach through its study objectives, with all the preconditions, of course, so that we can say that the complete completion and fulfilment of the programme criteria, i.e. exam and other requirements, is also around. However, it is important that we are, of course, in cooperation with NAKVIS all the time, also aware of the candidates and candidates who may not have been able to meet these conditions, but, nevertheless, under this Regulation and in accordance with the checks in the institutions themselves on the programme schemes and acquisitions, the recognition of the obligations they have already undertaken, it is necessary that candidates be informed as soon as possible, so we have also asked higher education institutions to inform them in the most transparent way possible, so that everyone can be informed, in fact, of how they can enter exactly in their own case. I think it is right that these transitions be made possible in a way that cannot be separated now, because the marriage deadline has expired, between the previous and the present ones in a way that does not achieve the same learning goals or study objectives and carry out the same content, if it is, of course, a diploma that they will now obtain in the same way as the current Bologna candidates and candidates.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordish, you have the floor for a procedural request to hold a debate on the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u158	Thank you very much. I'm going to use this instrument, but in fact, to continue with the controversy, because we've only come to the heart of the problem in the end. That is, that the complications related to the transition from prebolonic study programmes to Bologna in the last instance, or the most operational instance, are a matter of higher education institutions and the domain of higher education institutions and that they can be resolved there, including yourself, Madam Minister, you have cited a number of such options. What I would simply like is for you to take some of these higher education institutions into your hands because, once again, we know how the university bureaucracy turns out, we know that there are also some profitable motives and some Mandarin shopping students on the left and right. It's just college and university business as mental, if you want. However, it is not right for students to suffer in this process, who are really the least guilty of this kind of injustice. In fact, those who have already completed their studies or almost finished their studies have now been tricked by the fax by the fact that they will first have to make a victory out of a diploma before they can even get to the second grade of Bologna and that they will then be able to master there and in the meantime another set of some differential exams. That's not right. Sorry, that's not right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u159	Mr. Kordish, do you request a debate? You don't want to. Good. Madam Secretary, thank you very much. We still have a last question, namely, Mr Marko Ferruga will ask the Minister of Environment and the premises of Mrs Irena Majcen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u160	I'm protesting first. I will be joining Mr Kordiš for the first time here, but I have to correct him a little bit so that his two colleagues have also left out the questions. So some of us were skipped, and then the fundamental question here is whether it makes sense to do this at all and to ask these questions or not — first of all. And secondly, as I examined here on the list, there were 28 of us on the first part of the 28 who wanted to ask and find out, and there was practically one quarter of us, either quit or didn't ask. I think that's proof of some unreality. I'm not talking about names. Everyone knows what they're doing. I always prepare for the meetings, and I've prepared for that, and I've also given these two questions with all seriousness. And now a nice welcome to both the ministers who are still here. Don't mind me, but let's go on this subject I'm going to ask you about. As everywhere in Slovenia, unfortunately, we face the problem of building on black, non-compliance with building legislation and, worst of all, ineffective action by our national authorities. What's this all about? Two or three such very interesting points are known on the coast. One of them is this famous fruit dryer in Portorož, or Sečovje's famous Mr Türk, where it has become a big villa from the dryer and cannot act now. Secondly, so interesting is the Alpine settlement in the middle of our Mediterranean or Coast, when they came, I will tell those who are above Black Kal and who have just built houses in the form of Alpine wooden huts and are spreading nicely, regardless of whether they have been warned or alerted and that there have been construction inspections that I don't know why and I don't know how they can do anything. It is my opinion that in these cases this terrible inefficiency of our country is manifested. That's unacceptable. But if I put it on the other side, I'll say, such an easy destruction or the joy of that brunette of one common man, then a man really wonders how and what that right is in our beautiful land. Then we have the third absurdity of this matter – I will have to finish because I think it is important that I say it, so I will continue in the second half.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to the Minister, allow me, Mr Marko Ferruga, to agree with your protest. Unfortunately, as chairman, there would be only one and only alternative to suspending the meeting, which would be even worse. So it is our responsibility and our fellow workers to take care of and keep watch over the course of the session. Madam Minister for Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u162	Thank you. Of course, in the work of inspection services, I cannot use data on my own in terms of concreteising any procedure. Inspections are independent in their operation, but I can say that in the framework of the inspection procedures of the construction inspection in Slovenia there are many of these matters, as we have already said many times. Of course, people still turn to these inspections, so it works, it seems, will never run out. However, I would like to pay attention on the basis of illegal construction, construction in an area where there is no building permit or documents available and non-conformity — in that other case, it is certainly not the same as for non-conformity — and inspection procedures are not the same in both cases. Already in the legislation adopted, construction managers have certain responsibilities, which we are increasing mainly through the new Construction Act, which is slowly approaching the government's treatment, as the construction permit procedure itself provides for notification of the start of the construction of both the administrative unit and then through the application in the PIS also inspection services. However, the construction leaders will be held accountable in the event of unconstitutional construction. However, – which of course was good, and I am sure that in practice, at least in some cases, we will be able to do so – we will be able to do so at the time of construction. Indeed, it is in inspection procedures that we encounter applications sometimes when an object has been in space for 20 years, it has not bothered anyone, and then mutual or misunderstandings between neighbours cause such misunderstandings to apply to such complaints. I just can't say it, I can't agree, and I'm a great opponent. It is true, however, that this new legislation also prescribes legalisation; legalisation for the facilities in which it resides; and legalisation for the facilities in which certain production is conducted. Thus, there will be many amendments to the new legislation. Having the idea that because of the new legislation there will be no more illegal and incompatible constructions, I do not have this idea, especially because it is a particular feature of Slovenians. We know that we have a lot of scattered construction and, of course, in these some remote corners of Slovenia, such construction cannot be recognized as quickly as in some regulated environments. When I have the opportunity, honourable Member Ferruga, to answer you, and I would like to tell you that none of the congregations at our sea has adopted a municipal spatial plan. In fact, there are all these features that belong to an environment and certainly our Primorje has specialities. The spatial acts set out the specificities of construction, which are specific to these municipalities, and this is because certain municipalities have not even started the procedure with municipal spatial plans. And I think that's a good thing to say in this middle, too. This also points to the attitude of the congregations towards their citizens. If we look in the Slovenian space, there are such municipalities that have not even taken a decision on the preparation of the OPN, nine. I would like at least this year to adopt this and draw up municipal detailed plans.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u163	Mr. Marko Ferruga, you have the floor to request a complete reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u164	Thank you. Let me finish another other absurdity of those two that we have. I was also approached by a guest from Kopra who worked, it is said, obtained the opinion of the Institute for Cultural Heritage, received the decree of the municipal municipality or the decision of the municipal municipality, received the decision of the administrative unit Koper, received also the inspection, construction, everything positive and then started to revolve around some complaint by an individual, so that it came so far that it actually came to the decision to demolish one part of the facility. It is said that we have people on one side who listen to it to solve it under all the rules, and they are actually fed up with it. And those who are working in black are doing some of their construction work – let us leave what the Minister has now said, that clearly also the OPN is not done in the municipalities – but this duality of action of construction inspections is on the Coast, and probably even wider in Slovenia, is somehow unacceptable. Therefore, from this point of view, I ask the Minister to try to make appropriate changes to the building legislation and to these internal acts for the swift and effective resolution of these matters. You know, it hurts people the most when they see that someone who has some financial power or some political power can do what they want, other people, just ordinary people, but they can't turn to anything. In these areas, some borders and also some effective measures will have to be taken to address this lack of respect for construction documentation. So in this direction I support this reform of construction legislation and appeal only so much to you to focus [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u166	Thank you. With regard to this second part, so that the measures should be effective, successful, I fully agree with you. We are trying to resolve this in this existing prepared legislation. Given that we are meeting in the National Assembly at the next stage of the drafting of this legislation, you will probably also help Members in this work to be more successful – to the satisfaction of all our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Your proposals will be decided by the National Assembly today, 30 minutes after the end of agenda item 1. I also interrupt this agenda item, which we will continue in half an hour at 14.10. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u168	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue the adjourned session of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the votes of the National Assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We are moving on to item 1 of the agenda, which is to questions from Members and Members. Review of the proposals for proposals by Members and Members for a discussion on the replies of the President of the Government, the Minister and ministers of 27 June 2016. 1. 2017 is published on the e-club. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Branka Grims will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to the question of mags. Branca Grims's actions regarding migrants. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Since Mr Grimes is not here, it seems to me that I am obliged to explain this request, at least now that most of you are here. See, I myself – I think that in the middle of last year or in 2015 – began to draw attention to the costs for asylum seekers. Of course, then, and media and under the influence of the Government, I can't say anything else, because the interior ministry has given data, one famous figure of €29 per month has come out. What a beautiful lie, because it's logical that you can't live, feed, feed, and everything else for 29 euros a month. Then we drilled forward and we came up with data, but they count government data, the other can't count, we've come up with just over 600 euros. When we recalculated it, it's not going through, but it's partly the truth that the former Minister of Finance said on one of the questions sent. He said: “An asylum seeker costs us about 600 euros a month.” This then served as an official information – which is largely not published by the media, this is also clear as a white day – to the Court of Auditors, which issued this audit report days ago, and the Court of Auditors stated theirs. For those of you who want to check this out, you can look at page 40, second line: a thousand 963 euros per month per asylum seeker. To one asylum seeker! Here, those who want to minimize, as the Prime Minister wanted in the morning, will say, the costs of the employees away, the costs of the asylum home away, the costs of heating away, will again show a minimum figure. This is citizens' deception, which was done by the Prime Minister of the Government this morning in response. You can't give the cost to the employees, you can't give the cost of eating parties, you can't give the cost of an asylum home page because these are costs. That's the cost. If there were no asylum seekers, there would be no such institutions and employees. Is that right? So we'll just admit what the Court of Auditors said, a thousand and a hundred and 63 euros a month to one asylum seeker. At the same time, of course, we provide many other information on salaries, pensions and so on about the apartments that are now being equipped by the Government. It's a topic, it's certainly a topic that most people here are afraid of. But look, this is the topic we need to talk about, not because of us, not because of the political points, because of the taxpayers who pay for it. They deserve this, so of course we want a debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u170	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Member of Parliament On behalf of the Commission? [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Oh, he's raising his hand too fast. So for the next one, okay. We're voting. There are 52 Members and Members present, with 9 votes in favour and 42 votes in favour. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Luka Mesec, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to the question of Mr Mesec's question on the rise of the minimum wage. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u171	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I asked the Prime Minister why he does not want to raise the minimum wage to EUR 700 net by the fall, as proposed in the United Left. In his reply, he said, inter alia, that because they did not cause the crisis. That's true, but my point was elsewhere. This government is solving the crisis by bringing only 10% of the richest people out of it, while up to 90% of them are flying just bits. Since Prime Minister Cerar has made clear his disagreement with the proposal that the minimum wage should be raised to meet the remaining 90% standard, I propose that the National Assembly should hold a general debate on how to take care of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u172	We're voting. There are 52 Members and Members present, 12 votes in favour and 39 votes in favour. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with Mrs Dimic's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to the question of Iva Dimic, on government measures in support of families. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u173	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to ask you for your support in the National Assembly, but only to have a broader debate that would go against young people: how to try to keep young people in Slovenia, how to provide them with housing and jobs, of course, and, consequently, how to encourage them to also decide to create a family. Last but not least, as I have already told the Prime Minister in my question, we have a serious problem with the demographic picture. We are reminded of this by all indicators, and Umar also warned us that we must do something about the larger number of births. Of course, a greater number of births without making for young people favourable conditions, so that they can have jobs to live with — and, of course, other measures to support the family. I already have here a proposal for amendments and a supplement to the Public Finance Balance Act, which speaks about exactly those measures that have been taken after the ZUJF and are now practically back to the level before 2012, because in New Slovenia we are convinced that these were measures that actually helped and have also shown some effects. Of course, this is not enough if we do not keep the young. I'm asking for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u174	This last part would not be necessary to explain its own voice, but independently, we are voting. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present, 10 votes against 39. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Franz Breznik, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of Mr Zdravko Počvalska, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, and Mr Karl Erjavac, Minister for Foreign Affairs, to the question of Mr Franz Breznik on the revised legislation in the Republic of Austria. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present, with 9 votes against 40. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Commissioner Miha Kordiša, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič to the question of Mr Miha Kordiš in connection with the transition of students from the old study programme to the Bologna study. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present, with 9 votes against 41. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude the first item of the agenda and the 26th meeting of the National Assembly. I want a really nice and quiet weekend for all of you, whatever that means to each and every one of you.
