ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 30th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Dr. Jasna Murgel, Violeta Tomić, Mrs. Suzanne Lepi Šimenko from 16:00 on, Mrs. Nada Brinovšek from 16:00 on, Mrs. Jelka Godec from 16.30 onward, Mr. Kamal Izidor Shaker, Dr. László Göncz after 14:00, Mr. Franz Breznik, Mr. Marijan Pojbič, Mr. Matjaž Germany from 20.30 onward, mag. Matthew Tonin from 8:30 p.m. and Dr. Franz Runk from 7:30 p.m. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government to the 1st item of the agenda and representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I say hello to everyone who's here! Before we begin the meeting, allow me to briefly address the National Assembly on the 25th anniversary of the membership of the Republic of Slovenia in the Organization of United Nations. Respectable citizens and citizens, esteemed Members and Members, distinguished representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, ladies and gentlemen! In recent years, we have been very happy and proud to recall some of the first decisive steps that we have taken more than a quarter of a century ago on our steep path to our own country, the independent and independent Republic of Slovenia. We must not make any distinctions between these steps, they were all equally important, and if any were to fail, the fate of our country would be uncertain. But with courage, knowledge, strong will, and above all, we have acquired our own space in Europe and the world with a firm desire for a free and democratic society. On this day exactly 25 years ago, the crown of the process of Slovenian independence followed. On 22 May 1992, the Republic of Slovenia, with the Resolution of the General Assembly of the United Nations 46/236, which was adopted unanimously, became a full-fledged member of the far most universal international organization, in which membership represents an irreplaceable element of statehood, as we consider today. Although Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia joined the organisation on the same day, Slovenia was the first republic of the former common country to hold its new seats in the General Assembly from a chronological point of view within the UN. Congratulations to Slovenia came from the home of every corner of the world, and before the United Nations building in New York for the first time was the flag of Slovenia. With these symbolic actions and the recognition of Slovenia as a sovereign and equal country, a new period of exceptional opportunities and even greater responsibilities have begun in the international environment for us. But this new leaf in the history of our independent country would be difficult to reverse if not all necessary actions were followed by extremely decent and tireless diplomatic representatives. It is not surprising, therefore, that on May 22 we also mark the day of Slovenian diplomacy, the day of skill and art, which has already been cultivated by Slovenian diplomatic representatives of the former SFR to the United Nations, from Jože Wilfan to Ignac Golobe, to diplomats and diplomats of the independent Republic of Slovenia, who have placed our country with great effort in the core of the international community. This work, however, is still working successfully today. The United Nations called at the top of a world devastated by World War II. It announced the beginning of a new era of world history. A period in which under conditions of international peace and security, based on respect for fundamental human rights and through global rule of law, the well-being of all human beings is to be won. The UN Charter has become the constitution of a developing world society and in these contexts Slovenia has shown and contributed enormously over the past 25 years. Just before the thousandth anniversary of the outbreak of weapons in the Balkans, we proved to be a mature and constructive member of the Security Council. We have already become a member twice of the United Nations Human Rights Council, a key forum for global governance of fundamental human rights and freedoms. We have been accepted as members of the Executive Committees of UNICEF, UNESCO, the UN Development Programme and could still be listed. Our experts have already been elected several times to the committees which oversee the implementation of the key human rights instruments adopted under the UN framework. For the third consecutive term, we also have a representative in the Commission for International Law, which is responsible for codification and progressive development of standards for the management of international relations. However, I do not wish to forget in any way the many Slovenians and Slovenians who, as international public servants, have held high posts in the secretariats and other bodies of the institutions of the United Nations system. Respected and respected! The United Nations is far from perfect. Its over-response to many global challenges and crisis hotspots, too often a lack of principle and the evidence of formal undemocraticity, especially within the Security Council, are justified many times, but the fact is that the UN is the far-reaching global forum in which, in the spirit of today's important multilateralism, decisions are taken that have an important impact on the future of the world and of humanity. A forum where friends and opponents sit at the common table and in a whirlpool of intertwining national interests, they look for and often find common solutions. And in this vortex Slovenia must also insist on responsible, solidarity and success. With our commitment to collective security, the protection of fundamental human rights and freedoms and sustainable development, we have become a respected and respected member of the organisation. The Slovenian history of the UN is varied and rich, so we can and must be proud of it today. I wish citizens and citizens sincere congratulations on the 25th anniversary of the membership of the Republic of Slovenia in the United Nations and our diplomats and diplomats, on the day of Slovenian diplomacy, a great deal of prudence and success in the future. Thank you. We are moving on to the agenda for the 30th meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday 12 May 2017, with the reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of an item from the agenda or proposals for an extension of the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you have received by reference. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 82 votes against none. [[The vote was 82.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 30th meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY — QUESTIONS FROM MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received, within the deadline of business, written statements of 38 questions sent. Under this item, today three questions from members of the opposition and a question from the ruling coalition will be answered by the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Miro Cerar. Ministers and Ministers will answer Members and Members' questions on Friday, 26. 5. 2017. An e-club provides an overview of the questions sent to which no answers have been answered within the time limit. We are moving on to the question of the Member States. Procedurally, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u2	Dear Mr. President of the National Assembly, President of the Government, Ministerial Assembly, dear colleagues and colleagues! The question of correspondence, in particular oral and parliamentary initiatives, is a very important communication channel between citizens, citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and between the Government. This is a very important instrument, a democratic instrument especially for the opposition. Although we have received a timely message, we have been informed that seven ministers and ministers will not be able to answer today's parliamentary questions due to their absence. We understand the absence of ministers and ministers due to obligations at international level, due to disease, etc. The fact that the questions sent to ministers and ministers are now set for this Friday is a step closer to the Members, but I cannot be satisfied with this, Mr President. I therefore ask that more respect be given to the National Assembly, which appoints a government that appoints ministers and ministers. Look, today we don't even know who will be present or absent from ministers and ministers on Friday. On your part, Mr President, it would be a very correct gesture if, for example, Members and Members were to allow, despite the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, that we should announce questions and initiatives by Wednesday at 12 noon. If the Minister and the Minister are absent, it is perfectly normal for the Member and the Member not to decide to raise the oral question. And this is not the first time this has happened in this term. That is why I very much ask, and this is my key proposal that by the end of this term, whenever it is over, this will never happen again. Otherwise, in the opposition, we understand that the opposition somehow wants to be eliminated, that it somehow wants to be taken away from it by this instrument, which is, after all the global parliaments, an instrument of the parliamentary initiative and the question of the mission, particularly the oral one. I hope, Mr President, that this procedural proposal will also be followed and respected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u3	I respected and respected him by the fact that the matter was so arranged at this meeting. And that was the collective agreement of the College itself. Certainly, the presence of ministers and ministers at the question point is one of the key issues. I've been given a better presence than the one today regarding the announced absence. That is why we have decided in the College as we have decided. I have certainly done so until now, and I will continue to do so in the future so that this institution retains its importance in parliamentary democracy. We are now really moving on to parliamentary questions. Mr Ljubo Žnidar, you have the floor to question the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u4	Dear Prime Minister of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, you are most responsible in the country for the economic treatment of money, no matter what consumption it is. The country is constantly in debt and thus threatens financial stability in the future. That is why, Prime Minister, everyone expects all of you to be careful about spending money, especially on the biggest projects where there are extremely large investments. Let me go to Project Two. We all understand the urgency and need to build a second track, but not in the way you did in the government coalition. First, you set up a 2TKK company to build a second track and put EUR 200 million into the account without any basic parameters that would design a framework for construction, no investment programme was adopted, no technical documentation was produced by PZI to give the price of the project and finally your concerns about the technical solution. Furthermore, by voting majority, you have adopted a law which grants this newly established company a 45-year concession and relieves it of any liability for the entire duration of the concession. It is quite far to see that the law gives not to say the planned legal basis for financial machination on this project, such as the construction of a second track on the Division of Divac-Koper, to make a concrete payment, from your law, for the availability you provide 30 to 40 million per year, ranging from a billion 350 million to a billion 800. The difference is 450 million. I'm not talking about unforeseeable works here, but this is already taken into account in the basic price. That's why I'm asking you: Why haven't you processed the other options? Why didn't you process the chosen version? [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u5	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u6	Thank you very much, honourable Ambassador Znydar. First, let me say that the claims you're making on your question are not going to hold up in many ways. You say the state owes itself every year. Our government has stopped the trend of public debt. If we're in debt in recent years, it's only to reprogram the debt to lower interest. That is to say, if we look at it, the public debt has stopped, it's no longer rising, and we reprogramme this debt by even paying substantially less interest each year than before. It is said that this country has consolidated public finances after this government and is trying to reduce public debt and manage these finances normally, so that we are a caring master. To stop the use of public money, of course, so we have set up such a financial structure that the second track will build partly from budgetary resources, but not by overburdening our taxpayers, but by contributing, as you yourself mentioned, to those stakeholders who will benefit most from it. In addition, we are going to acquire European grants, we are going to go to the Western countries and we are going to the European Investment Bank's loan. This combination means that at least, as much as possible, we will minimize it, burden our taxpayers, and by doing a project that is spoken of for 20 years, how much it is necessary, you all talk, you want to have it, you want to have it, now that we want to do it, but you're all up against it and you're back on your feet, and now it's not good, it's good. Let me stress that this project is supported by the European Commission. This project supports the fact that it will also make the loan available and therefore requires a very clear project scheme, the European Investment Bank. This project is supported by the Jaspers Agency, which has technically verified it from all aspects. These are all international institutions that are still very strict towards Slovenia when we are doing something wrong. This project is supported by five countries, four countries and Spain. For this project, we are in constant cooperation with the Court of Auditors, the Anti-Corruption Commission and Transparency International, which fights corruption. This project is completely transparent, publicly presented and we have therefore gone to the adoption of the law to make it absolutely clear what the funding scheme will look like and all these key actions to get to it. No cover-up, no back-up games, which has happened many times in the past. I am therefore surprised that some of you are hiding even now for this referendum initiative by Mr Willi Kovacic as a civil initiative, but in the back everything else is happening, a political scenario that has only one purpose: the second track to draw into the story of the political campaign. The second track is too important for Slovenia to be seen as part of a political game. The second track will allow Slovenia to become important that Luka Koper remains and becomes an even more important transport entry in Central, Eastern and Northern Europe. This will keep Slovenia on a global, not just European transport map. This will also benefit Luka Koper, her employees and all others who will be able to increase the transhipment and thus compete with the Italian ports, who are just waiting for this project to be stopped, as you or anyone else might wish, so that Luka Koper will then die to remain a blind intestine in this part of Europe. It is useful for our railways, for some of our companies, but it has this broader European dimension. This project really places Slovenia on the world transport map. Let me repeat what I've said many times. Not only is the project transparent, but it is not only for this reason that the law has been adopted to make it perfectly clear what we are doing, not only by cooperating with all the stakeholders I have mentioned, including the KPK, the Court of Auditors, the European Commission, etc. We also talk to all stakeholders, with civil initiatives, with Luka Koper, with railways, and here before you before the public, we always answer all questions, both about the financial structure and about the importance of this project. This project needs Slovenia, it is not about the government, it is about Slovenia, for its future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u7	Mr Ljubo Žnidar, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u8	Dear Prime Minister, construction will be difficult to understand, or at least in that segment, to answer my questions. And that's, I'd say, some general discussion of yours. Now I'm going to your area. Mathematics, simple mathematics, which is summarized from your marriage, from your proposal. Annual payment for availability ranging from 30 million to 40 million. If we take 30 million, the price of one track is 50 million per kilometer, which is what we get after this project. If we take the maximum ceiling that you specify in the law entered into the law, 40 million, the price per track is 67 million per kilometer. Mr. Prime Minister, a little math. Wouldn't you be able to build me two tracks with that money? Please answer that question. Not to mention further the technical solution of the expert group that made the proposal to the table with an estimated value of 800 million. And this one is worth 550 million more than your lowest price you've ever set. By law you set the price of the project, not with PZI technical documentation. The difference is 550 million. I would say that it is perfectly logical that referendum signatures are being collected at this time, and I believe that citizens will no longer support the non-economic spending of public money. And even in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are not hiding behind the referendum. We make it clear that we are absolutely not in favor of such a waste of public money. Dear Prime Minister, please tell me: What will you do if the referendum fails? [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u9	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Since I have only two to three minutes, I will briefly say that many of your professional findings absolutely do not. Let me just say that the one that is constantly appearing in the public, which you are sending to be 50 million euro per kilometer, is completely misleading. Here I have the expertise, but let me just say that the cost per kilometer is about EUR 27 million after the current calculations. But it'll be time to talk about it in other forums. Here in the National Assembly, it is not possible to go to some professional analysis. I'd say so. The project has been valued many times by the profession, and our government has given it one more time, just in case, to evaluate the professional forum. As you know, the terrain is difficult, the track is difficult. I come from these evaluations, professional ones, not just those that someone can say in public. I, too, can say publicly that any project can be implemented at half price. This is simply not true in this case. If the European Commission, if Jaspers, if all the countries behind this project and everyone else agrees with our assessments, knows what it is that our Court of Auditors, the KPC and other institutions are involved in this, then I think it is clear enough that we have never hidden anything here and that the matter is transparent. But when you say we're wasting public money irrationally, I really don't know how you can say it. Our government, you called three when we came to power and we pulled this country out of the crisis. [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Yes, of course it was. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u11	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u12	Yeah, that's right, remember. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u13	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u14	You said we couldn't do it. We have financially consolidated a country with a large budget deficit. We have set up public finances, which is why we can now breathe normally, and therefore the economy can function normally because the country can also invest normally because it can normally support these environments and because we are recognised abroad as a partner. This is why foreign investments are also going to Slovenia. And such deceiving that we treat government money irrationally, it just doesn't stand, you can't even prove, or I don't know how you can say anything like that. [[…]] [[Laughing in the hall]] But you can laugh, yes. This usually conceals the embarrassment that will need to be discussed at some point, but today is not the time. I only assure you that this second track project, which I am now telling the citizens more because you are already reviving the data, it is verified, it is professionally justified and transparent. That's why we went to the adoption of the law, so we're going to discuss every matter in public and we're going to be in the coming days, weeks and months. And I believe that this is a project that Slovenia still needs. And here and now we have to decide about him. If we miss another year, we'll have a country, Luca Koper soon in an uncompetitive state, and then it'll be too late. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u15	Mr Ljubo Žnidar, you have the floor to argue that at the next meeting you would like to discuss the Government's response.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Prime Minister, now I've stood up to your mathematics. Seven hundred and fifty million miles [27 km] times 27 million. Then why are you bringing in the lowest value of a billion 350? Now I don't know, it looks like we won't be on the same nouns in mathematics in Slovenia. You set up a company called 2TKK to build a 27km state investment. That's unnecessary. An investment could be led by a state-owned DRI or by state-owned railways. There is also no need for a special law that gives the entire right and without any liability to the concessionaire for 27 kilometers. It's particularly unacceptable, but I would call it financial elasticity in the range of 450 million. Yeah, whether it's 30 million a year or 40 for the entire concession. Dear Prime Minister, if you had listened to the profession that came with a new proposal last fall, you could have their verification on the table today. Their verification is cheaper than 550 million and today everyone could determine whether their proposal is good or not. You didn't do it. You didn't do it. Dear Prime Minister, if we listened to the opposition SDS last year when we put two bills on the table, first the law on the construction of the transport infrastructure, where the first priority was the construction of the second track, and the law on the provision of dedicated funds, which amount to 500 million annually, the respected Prime Minister, today with the second track, would not have the same problems as you now have. You don't even have an estimate of the value today, because you didn't wait, you were in a hurry to adopt the law, you didn't wait for the PZI to be produced with technical documentation, made censuses, and you could accurately evaluate the investment. No, you rushed and gave the law value to this investment, not technical documentation. It's a unique. This has not been on any investment project so far. I do not know such an investment project, which would be determined by law, but not by investment implementing technical documentation. Since your answers have not provided any solution to the improved, more cost-effective failure to build a second track, I propose a debate on the response of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u17	Mr Ljubo Žnidar, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly in the context of Tuesday's vote, 30. 5. 2017, or on Wednesday, 31. 5. 2017. Dr. Franz Trček, you have the floor to question the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to all, especially to the President of the Government, the constitutional lawyer, the regular Professor Dr. Mir Cerar. A short time ago, a working version of the new Law on Owl, the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency, became public. All those who were or have been professionally involved in this activity, all those who were members of the Security and Intelligence Supervisory Commission, journalists, most of the current members of the Commission, we were slightly surprised by the proposal we saw in the public eye. Why? Because it's some kind of unconstitutional set of wet desires. Some story goes even so that not so much of our security-intelligence service wrote it, but your national security advisor. He also speculated that he had come to the public for some reason because of some friction in the drafting of this proposal between the Ministry of Justice and your advisors, he was mildly told by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, scandalous. Not only is it unconstitutional in Article 36, but it is not only unconstitutional in Article 21, it is contrary in the first three articles. We really have problems with these services, but we can go back to Depala Village and get to arbitration, but this is not an excuse to keep this quiet, secretly writing this kind of legislation almost in the way of a la carte. In many elements, this bill is even more radical than the Patriot Act of the United States without proper control. Both parliamentary and some proposals that have been in the past about an inter-media group that is actually supposed to be between Parliament and these services. I even somehow asked the President of the National Assembly and the Vice-President of your party to define it, but somehow he said, "Yes, it's another early working version." And I'd really like you, Prime Minister, to somehow explain to us such a scandalous proposal, which in fact impressed us all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u19	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Miroslav Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u20	Thank you very much, honourable Member Trcek. First, let me tell you some fundamental facts. The current arrangements for the operation of the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency, so-called Owls, are based in 1999 and are outdated. At the time, it was appropriate in the social relations at the time, but now, with the change in time, technological progress is enormous, and we are faced with threats that we were not then, such as terrorism and the like, that this regime is obsolete. That is why it came to the National Security Council, so this was not a partial decision, but it came to the National Security Council in response to terrorist threats, to the decision that, in view of the changed circumstances that the important development of technology requires by security threats, which are also required by the case-law of the European Court of Justice, it is necessary to modernise security legislation, i.e. all legislation in this area, including the Owl Act, which we are now talking about. And of course, there is a debate here, which I am not even following right now, because it is taking place during the official work of the ministries, at the professional level. The police, the MNZ, Sova, the Ministry of Defence, the Office of the Government of Law, the Ministry of Justice and then probably some other experts. Here they have prepared some work materials at the professional level, drafts that have apparently also been rounded up online in exchange, and obviously some of these drafts have also come to the public. I must ask you very nicely to understand that it would really be pointless and inappropriate if the President of the Government or the Minister had in some way commented on some of the drafts that were not intended for the public at all. Apparently, someone put them in public, regardless of whether the content in them is controversial, because at these stages different ideas are being exchanged. Someone can be provocative and give you an idea. The fact is that the draft you have seen is one of the older versions, which does not even represent a proposal for a draft amendment of the law, let alone a final version of the amendment. I would like to point out that this is still under discussion at the professional-official level, and only when the solutions are sufficiently acceptable to those ministries and the professional services will they come forward at all. It is planned that the expert draft will be ready by summer 2017, it is said, by summer. Only then will the Ministry of Justice, which is responsible, subject to public and wider expert debate. So this draft will go public, will go to a broader debate. Only then will we be able to talk about an official proposal, which will not even be a proposal for a law to be proposed by the Government later on to the National Assembly. In short, there are many stages here and I can only provide you with something as President of the Government, but with all the responsibility, as in any similar case, I have never, and I will not allow it to come to the Government, let alone that the Government would send to the National Assembly, any material for which the competent services would find that they are unconstitutional or illegal. There is no such practice and must not be. You mentioned I used to be a constitutional lawyer. Of course, I am even more aware of the fact that no solution to the future Owl Act, to the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency, must be unconstitutional or inconsistent with the legal system, since this could constitute the greatest abuse of human rights. I am against such potentials for abuse or use against a human being, and I am always taking a firm stand against his rights, and that is why I will do so in the future. When the matter comes out of these discussion circles when it comes to the level of professional material, I repeat, it will be made public, made available to the public at large, both professional and political. Only then will the Government get the comments that it will take into account, first the Ministry and then the Government, when we draft the bill and I believe, in good form, in a quality version later send the Members to the National Assembly to decide on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u21	Dr. You have the floor to request a reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, chairman. If I have understood Mr Cerar correctly, we agree at least that this draft law at many points, in particular after the 20th, after article 24, is very much trying to restrict and abuse human rights. Some stakeholders who are probably not in the composition of the Security Intelligence Services and the Ministries have already been involved in writing this and have also been involved by the executives. The editor of the Saturday Annex even called this a beautiful display and a display of the mentality of this government and of the executive branch. Therefore, my question would be, Mr Cerar: Are you going to fire these counselors, these people? Somehow after that, you pulled yourself out of the government's side and you said something like this: We set it up, we'll get it into constitutional frameworks. For me, as a constitutional patriot, it is incomprehensible that this would be the first version, the first thought of anyone who writes it in the same way that it came to the public. If we are constitutional democracy, this is the starting point. What has been presented and this draft, which has actually come to the public, is, to put it mildly, dangerous. As it is, it reminds us too much of some totalitarianism, some of which we remember at least some of which we are 50 years old or older, even reminds us more of some totalitarianisms that were even a little worse than the totalitarianism in which some of us lived. In this respect, this proposal is scandalous, unacceptable and dangerous.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u23	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Dear Member, we have already found that we fully agree on certain matters. I hope that we all agree here that no solution that is unconstitutional or illegal must come into the legal system, but at least the one that would do so, enforce illegality or unconstitutional solutions in the area of the security verification of citizens or anyone. This is totally unacceptable. Let me make it very clear that I have every assurance that my national security admirer, who is actually the coordinator of this process, is not the holder of these changes. So he's not the one to be referred to as the critic. Some of these ideas, the solution obviously came when it came to individual ministries in some official-professional circles. Of course, it would be difficult for me to say experts when it comes to some proposals that are unconstitutional. But you know, sometimes there are different ideas in finding solutions. There are those in this debate. I'm not defending them. Any solution that threatens human rights, individual integrity, constitutional values, I absolutely reject. Therefore, I am sure that even the next phase, which is far from coming into the official document of the Ministry, rather than the government, will not see such a solution to the light of the world, because it will certainly be professional, even the competent authorities will reject it. I am confident that when the law is in a broader professional and public debate, it will contain solutions that are consistent with the constitutional order and that will not be disputed. Make sure that someone acts unconstitutionally, unlawfully, but is always in place, and it is therefore right to talk about eliminating such solutions in the Cali. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u25	Dr. Franz Trček, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. Look, I'm now, I can't say anything else, literally disgusted. The coordinator who should coordinate this, as the Prime Minister has said, is essentially not responsible. This has been the case in some circles that seem to be bubbling up at the fact that in this society and in this country we are derived from the Constitution. We already have a constitutionally controversial operation, which has already been pointed out, Owl. For example, in the area of intrusion into communications, e-mail, usually mail, we have a lot of problems with IMSI-catchers, which are held by security and intelligence services, which are also owned by the police, and they've been pretending for several years not to use them to hide them in basements. We also have a decision and a position of the European Court of Human Rights, which you know even better than I do, Mr Cerar, that there are unacceptable practices in Europe in the way we call Americanisation. And this draft, which came out, is literally this, mass painting through our privacy, through our private lives, to which we have the right. But you know, in this Slovenian policy, some people like to hang out with Mr Orban. It would be much more appropriate if you read Peter Esterhazy if you read old good George Conrad, if you were reading Krashnahorkai, who built whole opuses and described in a very good way what totalitarianism means and what kind of danger this is. I, Mr President of the Government, would least expect you to consider how such dangerous anti-constitutional victories can arise, because these are actual writings of a sick mind, I cannot say otherwise. And based on that, we should drop the coordinator immediately. It also pains me that, apart from my colleague Tonin and me, no one has nearly bothered with this fact, if you do, because that's something, it's going to be kind of respectable. Mr Gorenak has made another announcement, I apologize, Mr Gorenak. In short, let's do it as well, free as beans. There was too much of that in this society. It is true that there is obviously a great dissatisfaction in these structures. It's true that we have to adjust our time somehow. But the way it's collected is essentially a draft document like it came into the public eye. It is also essential that we hold a public debate on this. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u27	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly in the framework of Tuesday's 30th vote. 5. 2017, or on Wednesday 31. 5. 2017. Mag. You have the floor to ask a question to the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u28	Dear Members, good afternoon. President of the Government, ministers and ministers! I guess something's going on. In Croatia, there is incredible anxiety, the Croats have begun to sue us in all possible European institutions, they have also started to complain about the ban on Thompson's concert and strange things have started to happen at the border. If we read carefully Article 10 of the Arbitration Agreement, it is clear that both Slovenia and Croatia should refrain from any action that may further exacerbate this border dispute between the two countries. Specifically. At 10.41 p.m. on 11 May, a Croatian police vessel sails into the Slovenian territorial sea and aggressively maneuvers in the Slovenian territorial sea. May 4th, 12th. For 29 hours, the representative of the Croatian State is obstructing Joko Joras to ensure access to drinking water, which is a constitutional right. Remember, recently this House has adopted a supplement to the Constitution, which provides Slovenian citizens with drinking water. It is clear, at least after our assessment, that Croatia is in breach of Article 10 of the Arbitration Agreement. Given that we can say that in accordance with the Fundamental Constitutional Charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia, the entire Piran Bay is Slovenia and that it is also the confluence of Mlini Slovenije. President of the Government, I ask you: What will you do to enable Slovenian fishermen to fish unhindered in the Slovenian territorial sea? What will you do to ensure that Slovenian citizens in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia can provide drinking water? I also want to know: Have you informed the arbitral tribunal that Croatia is obviously in breach of Article 10 because the arbitral tribunal is authorised to order provisional measures to maintain the current situation?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u29	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Let me start with an arbitration agreement. It says here that the Parties, both Parties, including Slovenia, not only Croatia, must refrain from any acts or statements which could further exacerbate the dispute or threaten the work of the arbitral tribunal. You know, honourable Member Tonin, that Slovenia is striving to respect this article. So is the government in the first place. That is why such a debate does not benefit anyone here before the public, nor Slovenia. You will also understand that that is why I am very limited in this answer. According to public information, we can confidently expect a verdict this year, perhaps in the coming few months. And now any debate on our side that would trigger some, I would say, verbal or other conflicts, some tense relationship, would be harmful and we would be responsible for it and it would, of course, be the arbitral tribunal. That is why we are very cautious, reserved in all these matters, but of course we are carrying out all the tasks that the Government and the State must carry out. In the context of incidents at sea, which we have been facing for a long time and unfortunately are not so rare, it is mostly in cases where Croatian police are trying to control Slovenian fishing vessels equipped with the so-called AES system and are therefore detected by the Croatian control centre in Split. In such a case, the Slovenian police and the fishing inspection always act on the Slovenian side within their powers. Our competent ministry shall also inform the arbitral tribunal of any such contact, or perhaps an incident, and inform the arbitral tribunal thereof, while Slovenia shall ensure that the incidents are not caused and that they are not responded by stepping up. During this incident, which occurred on 11 May 2017, when two Croatian police vessels, the Slovenian fishing boat and the Slovenian police vessel were actually involved in the event, our authorities acted very responsibly in accordance with their competences, but not in any way by causing any incident, a tense situation. The crew of the Slovenian police warned both Croatian police that they were in the area of control of the Slovenian police. In fact, there were some manoeuvres, but there was no direct contact or collision, or anything like that, and then the Croatian vessels left the area. And that's all I can say about this event in accordance with the introduction I gave. We are equally aware of the plight of Mr. Jozko Joras. However, it is an area to which you have pointed, which is linked to access to drinking water for Mr Joras, who is, in our opinion, a Slovenian territory, a state area, but is also subject to arbitration. Therefore, under all these powers that we exercise here, we must act strictly in accordance with the spirit and the letter of the arbitration agreement, so that I can assure you that our authorities are here active and will be, but to those limits and in the manner that the arbitration agreement allows us to do. Otherwise, Slovenia respects the arbitration agreement, and we have come too far to see this verdict now that we are waiting for, with what reckless action or word, to jeopardize the course of this process and to issue a final decision to finally resolve this dispute on the legal path. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u31	Mag. Matthew Tonin, you have the floor to request a complete response.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u32	Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! I am convinced that the Republic of Slovenia is obliged to exercise authority or control over the entire territory of the Republic of Slovenia. Although we are in the process of judging the arbitral tribunal, Slovenia must not give up even a millimeter of its territory, which it controlled on 25 June 1991. As far as I know from history, I do not know any incident in the Gulf of Piran which would have been caused by Slovenian fishermen or Slovenian authorities, but this is constantly being done by Croats through the Umag fishermen or now by police vessels. I think they're trying to apply a policy of enforced facts. I am not saying that Slovenia should respond to incidents, but that it should clearly say where our territory is and what we consider to be ours on 25 June 1991. And another issue regarding the attitude towards Slovenian citizens in Slovenian territory. Especially what things look like. To Mr Joras, Slovenia has sent a decision on the property tax. As its property is estimated at EUR 508,000, it has received the tax of EUR 1000 271 which the country has measured to it. So this country wants to have taxes collected from it, but at the same time it does not provide it with all the necessary to get drinking water, even though it has, A – the consent of the Rižan water pipeline, B – the consent of the Piran municipality, which it also belongs to. My opinion is that if we collect taxes from citizens, we must also allow them to join the public water supply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u33	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Miroslav Cerar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. Tonin. You actually want to provoke a debate that would harm Slovenia. You want to have a public debate on a matter that I said earlier that we must be held back, and you yourself have mentioned some facts that prove that Slovenia is exercising its jurisdiction. Here I strongly reject any hint that we, our government, would not have in mind how important every part, every inch of Slovenian territory is. Every inch of Slovenian territory, which is ours, is ours, and we are doing our utmost and fighting for it before the arbitral tribunals and also, as you know, in other ways. But look, the arbitration agreement states that no unilateral document or unilateral act of any party since 25 June 1991, it is said, that no action since 1991 has legal effect for the tasks of the arbitral tribunal and is binding on any party to the dispute and cannot prejudge the decision in any way. So these actions of the Croatian parties cannot be prejudged, they cannot affect the content of the decision. This will be decided by the arbitral tribunal independently. That is why it is now our task to stick to the arbitration agreement and not take any unilateral measures, orders that would harm the wider Slovenian interest, in which the interests of every citizen living in our territory are also covered. I repeat, we are working, we are fighting and we are going to have an arbitral ruling and that Slovenia is working properly in this process until the end, so that we can also enforce this matter. Now, I propose that at this point, we stop the debate because it is simply, as I said, not beneficial to anyone, but at least to Slovenia's interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u35	Mag. Matthew Tonin, you have the floor to request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u36	President of the Government, we may not hear from each other, but once again, I do not require Slovenia to make any unilateral moves against Croatia that were contrary to the arbitration agreement. However, I would like to see if Croatia is doing these things to be reacted to and also alerted. According to this logic, that we must not do anything about what Croatia does, because it can threaten us with an arbitration agreement, I do not know what Croatia can then afford to react. I think that unilateral violations of Croatia must be kept in mind. That this is also enshrined in Article 10 of the Arbitration Agreement, we have written in, and that these matters need to be pointed out. I wish I knew the spirit, too. However, not to be afraid of endangering anything, I will not now suggest that we hold a debate on your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u37	But now you've put me in a position where I have to warn you in essence that you've misused the procedural possibility of something that is not actually meant to be. In fact, you are all more or less discussing, but you are not justifying why the debate would be necessary. Now you've all learned to do it in the last 10 seconds. I'm warning you, you can't do this. A reminder up or down, nothing helps these matters. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat, you have the floor to ask the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Miro Cerarju.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, distinguished Minister, ministers, a nice greeting to all! During the economic crisis, pensioners as the largest number of the population were carrying a large part of the burden of the financial and economic crisis. As a result of enormous savings from 2010 to this day, they have made a significant contribution to the recovery from the crisis and also to the rise in economic growth. It is true that we are slowly returning legally defined and, above all, entitled to pensioners. It is also true that this is done gradually. In this January, we have even agreed on pensions for a little more than to take into account regular coordination under the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. This year's allowance is finally given to all pensioners. We have also taken the first step, and I believe that it will not be the only one in this mandate to improve the economic situation of pensioners with a full pension with low pensions, so that we have increased the amount of the minimum pension. So this government works for the pensioners. It shall do its best and within the limits permitted by the financial framework. Economic indicators and forecasts are also favourable in the future, and it is therefore expected that regular coordination of pensions may finally begin in the coming year without restrictions on the law on the implementation of budgets. It is also expected that the annual allowance will no longer be subject to savings, while at the same time it is also expected that the savings scheme from Zujf will finally be completely and completely eliminated. Mr President, I'm interested in your position or your prediction of what's expected. The second part of my question is not only related to a better and safer future only for the current pensioners, but relates to our joint coalition project, which is primarily dedicated to future generations. In order to respond in an appropriate way to the present demographic factors and, as a result, to the growing needs of the pension fund, this is in terms of the long-term stability of the pension fund and ensuring a decent level of pensions, we have received unanimous support for the establishment of the demographic fund. Please state in this respect: When can we expect this fund to be established? When will it be? [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u39	The President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u40	Thank you very much, distinguished Member Kotnik Poropat. True, as you yourself said, this government works for pensioners, including pensioners, and will continue to do so. Its situation can be improved only gradually within the framework of the public financial capacity that is considered a condition for the entire population. Everywhere we make progress, we do it by not destroying the public finances system. But we can be optimistic, after a few reconciliations of pensions, once we have reached a minimum pension of EUR 500, we are moving on. On the basis of the decree in the framework of the preparation of the state budget for the period 2018-2020 already adopted on 20 April this year, we have already taken into account that pensions will be harmonised under the system law in 2018, 2019 and 2020 and will no longer be subject to austerity measures. This year, for the first time since 2011, all pensioners will also benefit from the annual allowance, as we know from the additional 21 million this year, according to last year, an additional 21 million of this annual allowance. It was therefore also necessary to amend the law on the implementation of the budgets for 2017 and 2018 and this year the total amount of EUR 127 million was provided for this purpose. Next year, however, a total amount of the annual allowance is foreseen at the level before the entry into force of this infamous Zujf. For the full payment of this special entitlement from the pension system in the coming years 2018, 2019 and 2020 we will provide around 140, including slightly more – 142 to 147 million euros. In short, we're going back to normal. Gradually, but for the second year, we will, in fact, ensure that, despite the necessary fiscal consolidation, all pension restrictions will be completely abolished, i.e. next year. With regard to the demographic fund, let me say that this, as a state-owned asset fund or a state-owned investment fund, will be set up to provide pension funds for periods of higher expenditure or revenue. In reality, we already have this situation in some way right now, because every year the country spends about €1.5 billion from the budget to the pension fund. In addition, Kad claims in the basis for the creation of the demographic fund itself that it has been established as a demographic reserve fund from the very beginning. The demographic reserve fund is, therefore, in some way already in place, but it must be aligned with the provisions of the SDH Act, mainly in terms of additional fixed funding sources, so as to ensure its long-term financial sustainability. Here, at the level of the coalition in the government, it works intensively. The final coordination between coalition partners at the level of the expert-political groups is ongoing. We are trying to harmonise the text of this law on future demographic harmony with all stakeholders and coalition partners before we adopt the proposal and send it to the National Assembly, while we want this demographic reserve fund to be financially sustainable in order to ensure respect for the basic principles of security, dispersion and profitability and to ensure rational business that does not cause excessive or additional costs on the account of pensioners or pensioners. I believe that we will be able to make so much wisdom and effort this summer, at least at government level, to adopt this bill and send it to the National Assembly, and it should certainly be, in accordance with the agreement we have reached in the coalition, also adopted in the National Assembly. However, I believe that Members will also participate in the debate and possibly support it more broadly. This year, of course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u41	Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat, you have the floor to request a reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Dear President of the Government, in Desus we are really very concerned about the adoption of this law on the demographic fund and the beginning of its operation, because it is very important for the older population, and in general for our society, how it will work, because we know that demographic trends are going in this direction that the older people are getting more and more. I am therefore pleased with your statement that the Government will prepare this summer, and all the partners of course, the text of this law on the demographic fund and also adopt it. I expect then that Members of the National Assembly will also adopt this law in the autumn or by the end of the year, because our mandate is approaching the end and is rapidly expiring, so it is very important that we make sure that we adopt this law at the right time. We have set ourselves many goals in the coalition. For me and for Desus, I think that the adoption of the law on demographics is really the goal over the goals, but don't make it sound so funny, but I think it's a serious question, which is why I said so. Thank you, Mr President, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u43	But now I'm before the dilemma in fact, because it wasn't a question, there was an explanation, an additional one, at least a government to supplement. The same thing is no longer the Prime Minister of the Government to complement what he said before. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] It already is. He's already made up his mind. I thank the Prime Minister for his answers. I hereby end this agenda item, which we will continue on Friday 26 with oral questions to ministers and ministers. 5. 2017, at 12 noon. We're moving on to 12. At the end of the day, that's a second defensively proposed law on sports within the framework of the regular procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. To further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u44	Dear President, distinguished Members and Members of Parliament, a respected assembly! A proposal for a new law on sport that is ahead of us is the result of work and dialogue [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u45	Calm down in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u46	Thank you, President. The proposal for a new law on sport ahead of us is the result of both intensive work and dialogue, which we have established with all stakeholders in sport and also in general public opinion. Sport is something that especially connects us with the Slovenians, but at the same time it is very active in the civil sphere. It is therefore right that, even in the upgrading of the Sports Act and in the new proposal before you, we better and even more thoroughly regulate the systemic development efforts and, above all, the quality of the relationship between civil and public work, which is still well applied by sport not only because of the sport system, but also because of volunteers and all other actors who specialize in sport in Slovenia. The starting points in the preparation of the new law were therefore focused primarily on its upgrades, current harmonisations and also on orientations in the development field of sport, so that, as far as possible, in accordance with the steps that this company has taken over the past two decades, they can look ahead and apply sport in future, in a way that is even more qualitative than before. The draft law was also unanimously supported by the Professional Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Sport, and we also received a positive opinion from the Olympic Committee, the Association of Sports Unions. We have already discussed the proposal for a law on the committee responsible. At this third reading, I should stress the following. The main purpose of this law is that, in fact, every individual citizen and citizen of Slovenia makes it possible and implements a better approach to any movement activities that are either financed or co-financed through public funds in the Republic of Slovenia. How are we gonna do that? By paying and facilitating activities by a country or local community, they will also be applied in such a way that there will be more professional skills within those who offer activities and, of course, also reduction from the co-financing of public programmes. [[Incomprehensible]] So to bring all programmes that are financed, co-financed, to an individual in Slovenia. The proposal also offers opportunities and opportunities to develop a two-way sports career. Many dialogues with top athletes have shown that we need to further justify this area and, above all, make it possible for young people who are coming to take advantage of and use as many rights as possible, which also stem from this title. These are now included in the law, especially in the field of education, as well as in the rights to an exceptional pension, which we will regulate under the conditions and ways laid down by the new law in the field of this activity. For many years, the Ombudsman has also reminded us that the sport area is not properly regulated and that it is right to allow both children, adolescents and already top athletes to have adequate security, so we have also proposed in the law to prohibit the charging of compensation for violations of all children up to the age of 15 and of all amateur athletes. As already stated in order to better design, and above all preventatively act in the field of sport, the law also introduces the Ombudsman of sports rights. The right to hire top athletes is also being expanded if we have now employed them mainly in the state administration, in the police, in the military, in the FURS, we have now extended these rights and opportunities to the whole public sector, including the local community. The proposal also sets out more precisely what a working relationship means. If there are all elements of the working relationship, then of course we advise and the law also allows for a working relationship to be concluded. However, since the areas of sport are specific, there are also possibilities for individual contracts. We still maintain the status of a professional athlete or professional professional or private sports worker. It is also very important that the law introduces and also substantiates professional work in sport, in particular in terms of the quality and competence of those who deal with children, young people, elderly people or anyone who engages in motor activities. Respected and respected! The text is the answer to the current problem of Slovenian sport. Almost two decades of this is when we have adopted the current law on sport, so it is also right to move forward in this area in modern dialogue with all representatives of sport and, of course, the general public. Finally, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, may I propose that the third hearing be held at this meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u47	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Dr Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Nicely greeted! At its 27th regular meeting on 10 May this year, the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth discussed the draft Law on Sport submitted to the National Assembly for its consideration by the Government. Under Rule 46 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee also held a public presentation on 23 March of the opinion aimed at obtaining opinions and views on the draft law. In terms of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects, the proposed law has been examined by the Legislative and Legal Service. In its introduction, the representative drew attention to the specificity of the legal norm of sport and to the legal and systemic derogations in individual solutions. It further stated that the comments submitted to the individual article were largely taken into account in the amendments tabled by the coalition groups. With regard to some comments, the applicant provided additional clarifications. Specially comprehensive explanations were given to solutions relating to the transfer of an athlete and to the employment of an athlete and an expert in sports. The draft law was also supported by the State Council. Their representative, however, assessed, among other things, the establishment of a system of professional training for the acquisition of professional qualifications in the field of sport as important. Within the deadline of business, the amendments were tabled by the coalition's parliamentary groups and the New Slovenia Group of Members, the Slovenian Democratic Party and Member Peter Wilphan. Following the opening presentations of the bill by the Minister for Education, Science and Sport and the Director of the Directorate for Public Health at the Ministry of Health, the discussion followed mainly on the use of the term sport recreation, the co-financing of the participation of students in European and world university championships from the resources of the annual sport programme at state level, the conditions for the registration of an athlete, the transfer of an athlete to another sport organisation, the composition and organisation of the work of the Professional Council, the role of the Accreditation Commission, the employment of athletes and professional workers in sport, fixed-term contracts, opportunities for employment of disabled and deaf athletes, and the Ombudsman. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted amendments to articles 17 and 30 of the Parliamentary Group of the Coalition, the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 17 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party to Article 17. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u49	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Parties, Kamal Izidor Shaker.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u50	Mr President, thank you so much for your words. A respected minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues! Sport is, because of its social effects, the field of operation of each responsible authority. The 1998 law, when our country first defined its own public interest in sport, is outdated and no longer in line with the real situation in the field of sport and its comprehensive development. The condition and structure of sports differ significantly from that of the time when the law was written and adopted. The solution to the proposal that we are discussing and deciding today reflects the current situation and needs of sport, in particular allowing for further development in the light of the current resolution on the national sport programme, which was adopted by a large majority in the previous mandate of the National Assembly. It is also important to stress that the bill has been coordinated in the widest possible public interest and supported by key players in sport. We are so pleased to give a green light to the proposal of the law, which has important positive consequences for citizens, athletes and the civil sport sphere, and in the first place ensures that citizens and citizens can more and better engage in sport and motor activities to maintain health. The bill therefore increases accessibility to sport, increases transparency over consumption and the purposeful use of public funds. With a renewed system of professional training, it improves the quality of professional work in sport, regulates and protects the rights of athletes and allows them to double their careers. It regulates the specificities of working in sport and enhances the visibility of the Republic of Slovenia abroad. Sport, like any other social activity, of course also has its shortcomings. Therefore, one of the purposes of the new law is to prevent or reduce the bad aspects of sport. We are particularly pleased that the sport of disabled persons at systemic level is first recognised in the same way as other forms of sport. At the recent meeting of the parent working body, when it addressed the Sport Bill, we were able to improve the legal text. Today's coalition amendments also take into account comments on regulating the free movement of athletes. You have also warned us in addition to the profession of respectable colleagues and colleagues from the opposition. Allow a few more words about regulating working relationships in sport. The first paragraph of Article 59 of the Law clearly provides that, where all elements of the labour relationship exist, the Law on Labour Relations applies also in the field of employment of athletes and professional workers in sport. However, this regulation provides for the possibility that a specific law can otherwise regulate individual rights and obligations in the working relationship. Sport is specific in this respect, and everyone who knows at least a little about the structure and operation of not only Slovenian sports but also wider. For these reasons, the Sports Act provides that individual rights, obligations and responsibilities from a working relationship can be regulated differently, most often more favourably for the athlete himself. We clearly and loudly stress once again that there is no collective agreement in the field of sport and that it is pointless to refer to it. Rather, let us pour pure wine and ask again why it has not yet been accepted, especially if we know that all the conditions are in place. Are the interests and desires of all really the same and consistent? And, no, with such a proposed arrangement, we will not be gravediggers of Slovenian athletes, as you have told us some colleagues and colleagues on the committee. Sport is the fundamental right of every human being, sports activity is important for the well-being and health of the inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia. In the SMC Group we will support the bill because we believe in it and because we believe it will allow the further development of Slovenian sport and will have positive social consequences.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u51	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u52	Thank you, President, for your word. Minister with colleague and colleague, colleagues and colleagues, nice greeting! Not only Slovenian sport, but Slovenian society urgently needs a new law on sport. The fact is that much of this law is very well regulated. Otherwise, the question still remains why the Minister, following a proposal that has already been agreed on, has introduced a new law into the procedure, which is not coordinated with all stakeholders, but a little later. We have also been waiting in the SDS Group for the law on sports on our bench, and that is also evident in our parliamentary questions when we asked the Minister when and what kind of law we can expect. But the fact is, we've got a law that the Law-Legal Service, like many others, has to a large extent torn apart. More than two-thirds of the articles, she warned that she needed different editorial and, above all, substantive corrections. The fact is that the coalition has followed a large part of these comments by the Legal and Legislative Service that the law has agreed to improve the situation in many areas, to give new opportunities and rights, but it is still a fact that before today we still have a number of outstanding and open issues. In the SDS Group, we have always warned that we are wondering what the meaning of new and new bodies is. This law introduces a new professional world, introduces a new world for accreditation and we have a guardian of sports rights. Instead of having a systemic solution, it will obviously be the government's mantra by the end of the term, that we will have an indefinite number of new guardians in each area, and we will not know whether they will fight against the executive branch or just try to put out the fire that lays in certain groups. Another issue that is problematic is still, in our view, too large and important is the role of the records that this law introduces. We are very afraid that these records will happen just like many others — that they will be something that will cost us something in the archive, and we will not know what is the meaning and purpose of these records. The next controversial thing is that we have – a national programme in the field of sport, but we all know that we should follow the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia, which speaks, first the Constitution, then the laws and then the implementing acts. In this law, however, we refer to the national sport programme already adopted. In our view, it is a questionable logic for the continuation of the work of this government when the legislator is forced to adopt something that is written in some sub-legislative act. In the SDS Group, yes, we have warned that we will not be gravediggers of Slovenian sport. We are still convinced that, despite all the amendments to the coalition, there remains, above all, an open issue in the field of labour law. Allow me. Friday, 16. At 9 a.m. in May, at 9 a.m., the Economic and Social Council Committee of State and Public Affairs of the Economic and Social Council, which is a tripartite, including the Government, took note of the Proposal for a Sport Act and found that the provisions of Article 59, paragraph 2, of the draft law had not been complied with. And this law is inconsistent, unless it is considered to be compatible with the social partners in the light of the decision taken. In the SDS Group, we have drawn up a proposal for a new Article 62a, because we want what some of you are calling for is everything arranged, that we work bypasses for athletes on labour law, that this is not the right solution. We therefore call on members of the coalition and the Government to respect the conclusion that they have helped to create on the Economic and Social Council. Two more matters in this marriage. The SMC has sport for all in its programme, and on the committee you rejected the proposals of the SDS and New Slovenia Group, which also introduces this dictatorship into law. In short, read your software outlets and work on them or throw your program into the trash. And the last thing. What helps us with the Sports Act if the Ministry of Education for Sport Infrastructure devotes less in the next two years than one well-equipped sports hall in Slovenia. In the SDS Group, we will support the proposed law if amendments followed by the words of the Government and the social partners are adopted, otherwise we will not support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u53	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Peter Wilfan has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, It seems that the bill that we are currently considering has been prepared for all eternity and will never wait for adoption in the National Assembly. In past mandates, there was no minister who dared or otherwise hoped to carry out the process of amending the Sports Act. Why do I say that? The current Sports Act was passed in 1998, i.e. 19 years ago, and in the meantime not once properly corrected, while the area of sport is all through yearning for changes due to constant adaptation to new trends, demands and situations. Minister Makovec Brenčič was the first minister, who courageously, as we say in the sports lingo, jumped into a project of long-term coordination with all stakeholders, which is huge, and finally brought into the National Assembly the long-awaited new sport law, which is most acceptable to all. Since the law interferes with a number of areas, from labour legislation to health checks and funding, I will not repeat myself here. It has already been substantively said by the proposers, so only for a short period of time. Among the main innovations introduced by the bill is the system of distribution of public funds for sport at all levels, the renewed system of professional training in sport, the free movement of athletes and athletes with appropriate guards, the area of protection of the rights of athletes and athletes is regulated, and the winners of the Olympic medals and medals of the world championships are entitled to reimbursement of the costs of education. The new law will also introduce the Strategic Council as the consultative body of the Minister and the Council of Experts as the consultative body of the Government, give greater powers to inspection in sport and provide for a uniformity of national colours for national representatives. Unfortunately, no government will ever be able to satisfy all the wishes and requests of all players in sport. The fact that there is no question about it is that State finances are essentially under-funded to finance sport. This is a problem that is drawn through the annual planning of the country's budgetary policy. The same awareness was also recognised by the Ministry of State as it launched a call for co-financing of investments in the modernisation of buildings owned by municipalities in 2016 for the first time in several years. The efforts and appeals of local communities to invest in sports infrastructure have only yielded results. The co-financing project will continue in 2017 and 2018, with an estimated EUR 800,000 per year. In 2018, an additional EUR 2 million will be provided for the construction of the sport infrastructure network. At the time of the adoption of the budget, the Ministry also announced that it would continue to support the development of high-level sport through various co-financing. Part of the commitment also applies when the National Sport Programme 2014-2023 is adopted. Sport funds are also increasing in 2017 and 2018 at the expense of European cohesion policy funds. If we take a moment to look at the financial framework of the Ministry, the expenditure devoted to sport is around 0.9% of total expenditure, or just over 15 million euros in 2017, which is almost undetectable. Why am I stressing this? As a former high-ranking athlete, I listen every day to what should be regulated in the field of sport. Unfortunately, however, the financial situation of the State is as it is, but in the Desus Group we believe that the adoption of today's bill will improve and upgrade the already exhausted financial situation in the field of sport. I believe, however, that we all want to be able to create infrastructural and material conditions for sports at all levels in the future, that our top athletes will also be properly rewarded for their outstanding results, that young athletes will not run away from us with a belly for bread to foreign countries, that in future Slovenian clubs will also compete in Europe, and that Slovenia will host sports events of the highest levels, and in particular that we will continue to cheer proudly for our athletes. From personal experience, I am well aware of what sport means to an individual, how it affects his life, what everything in life has to give up, and how very sweet the victories are. I am convinced that sport also contributes extremely positively to the recognition of Slovenia in the world, and in particular creates a special atmosphere of the society in which we live, as the victories of our athletes inspire us and inspire us with exceptional pride, joy and happiness. In the Desus Group, we believe that the adoption of the bill will bring added value to sport and encourage all athletes, either professionals or recreationals, to continue to contribute to the creation of positive sports results and stories. This will also be an important reason for us to support the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u55	Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u56	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting also on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats! In the introduction, we would like to point out that while in times of continuous change, which, of course, also require an appropriate response to the adaptation of the legal framework, it is rare that the law in Slovenia should remain intact for as long as it was actually the Law on Sport, which was already adopted in 1998. And we believe that there is no overestimation if we estimate that for such a long period of time the reason is actually the exceptional success of our athletes and athletes during this period, because this is certainly the period when their success with gold letters can be recorded in the almanacs of Slovenian history. Of course, these successes are the product of many factors, in the first place certainly the talent of the athlete and the athlete, of course the effort and denial and of course also the support of families and the professional work of coaches and teams who offer help to athletes to reach the peak in their careers. And in the contribution of the normative framework to the success of competition sport, we believe that it is not an exaggeration, but, however, also, the law and the law are important to ensure that we can ensure, if we so call it, the legal security of the conduct of sports activities in Slovenia. That is why we also welcome the new law, which also takes many new factors into account in this new content. It is important, however, that a number of sports programmes continue to be financed from public funds, and the trend will continue to grow in recreational activities. We estimate that there will also continue to be adequate access to sports facilities, which is, of course, a condition for the development of the talent that an individual has, and, of course, at the appropriate exercise, the achievement of excellence. We believe that the new law will also make it possible. It is of particular importance that sports companies also have the possibility of being involved in the preparation of programmes at local level and the faster distribution of public funds and the renewed system of vocational training for workers. Indeed, the very process of awarding public funds has been very slow so far, and many clubs or societies have also been in an unenviable position and have been more involved in ensuring their existence than in professional work. Of course, we would also like to draw attention to the fact that in the process of preparing and adopting this law, we have both participated in coordination within the coalition and, of course, adopted a number of athletes and tried to obtain their views on the law. In doing so, we would particularly like to highlight the most vulnerable group of athletes, namely disabled athletes, and we have also put forward a decision on the Committee which requires the Government to promote changes in the systemisation of jobs, ministries and bodies in their composition, with a view to enabling the effective implementation of the job opportunities of disabled athletes in the public sector. And this breadth in this law, in order to enable the employment of disabled athletes in the public sector as a whole, is one of the important acquisitions of the law, as this option was previously considerably narrower or narrower. At the same time, we supported the opposition's amendment on the Committee, which clearly states that the health restrictions of a disabled athlete must not be an obstacle to public sector employment. Of course, health care for athletes is very important for us, and we would like to point out here in particular that the Health and Insurance Act will regulate this area in detail, so we expect the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport to be actively involved in the preparation of the regulations and thus ensure adequate care for the health of athletes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u57	The word is given by the Group of the United Left for her by Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, chairman. Yeah, we need a new law on sports. The proposal that we are going to make today solves some acute problems. In the United Left, however, we would like a more ambitious proposal, which would emphasize sport as a public good, which is more widely addressed by the mass recreational sport, which is intended for everyone and is the foundation of the entire sport pyramid, which we can watch on television in top athletes. By no means, and this is one very large in any way, we do not need a law on sport that introduces extreme overelegance into the entire field of sport. The position of sportsmen and sports workers is already a very hard haven. Most professional athletes have the status of a social entrepreneur, which means they are left without work rights, although of course they should have them. And there is a broad consensus that in cases of athletes it is a work relationship. And one of the essential features of this working relationship is the relationship of subjection to work and in sports is the most open-minded delicacy of human beings. Many athletes are traded, thrown from club to club like potatoes, owned by clubs and must be constantly available to these clubs. The Sports Act does indeed provide that the labour relations of athletes are governed by a sectoral law, but then, immediately in the following paragraph, it provides for exceptions that practically suspend all working rights, working hours, holidays, holidays, payments, disciplinary responsibility, termination of the employment contract. What, then, remains of the protection of the worker, the weaker side in the hit of the job? The following article of the law acts in a completely cynical way: “The validation of fixed-term contracts may take 10 years.” The restrictions in the Labour Relations Act are two years, and we know that this restriction is also being breached as per the current lane. It's totally arbitrary to legislate the abuse of labour rights. The uncertainty and difficult situation of athletes also brings specific demands of sport, from physical limitations, limited career lengths, potential for injuries, difficult rehabilitations and so on. And here I warn you, let's not just look at Peter Prevc, the Olympic Football Club, Angie Kopitar and other star names, because we already have most people in a very difficult economic and social situation in the field of professional or semi-professional sport. People who live 600 euros a month. Let us look at the first handball league, all players of the second, third football league, or all athletes in less media and commercially interesting sports, who, of course, do not receive generous sponsorship contracts. For all these people, for all this mass of sports proletariat, the law brings the legalization of the existing catastrophic situation. Who will decide on the working relationship if it brings him much worse conditions, yes, be careful, worse conditions than working through espionage. And then there's a minister who says that the law allows for a regular working relationship and that at the Ministry they advise regular employment, regular employment, which is a civilisation standard from the post-war period. Above all, I warn all Members who will vote on this law, these provisions do not apply only to athletes, but also to professional workers in sport. Will we place swimming teachers, fitness trainers, some sports teachers on contracts for a certain period of 10 years completely legal? Among other things, we can read in explanation that we have 211 valid professional qualifications in the field of sport and more than 350 training programmes. That's unacceptable. Not only does the government legalise the existing state, it makes it worse. Introduces a complete travesty, a wild labour market not only for athletes, but also for professional workers in sport. On the coalition party's committee, you did not want to support the amendment, nor did you want this article to remain open, and you obviously prefer to push the sports proletariat into even more brutal pretenses. Therefore, without our amendments to this law in the United Left, we will not support it, we will strongly oppose it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u59	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Ludmila Novak, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u60	Dear Mr President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! We are all looking forward to the good results of our athletes, and we are proud of them, so it is essential that their status is well regulated. From this point of view, New Slovenia – Christian Democrats welcome the proposal for a new law on sport. However, we are concerned about what we have learned from a number of meetings with the public concerned — whether the law is not fully or not well coordinated with all stakeholders. We know that somewhere there is a line to be drawn and that it cannot be met in all things. Many stakeholders involved in the drafting of the marriage text felt that their arguments were understood and that they would also be included in the marriage text, and this was not the case in the final text. Logically, many are now disappointed and do not feel that their opinion has been ignored. Sport is an important economic sector, so there are not only many stakeholders, but also many interested groups of citizens. There is also a lot of money going around in sports, so this area needs to be regulated in a transparent, thorough and efficient manner. At least at the beginning of the sports career of children and adolescents, most of the money, time and all-round support is usually provided by parents, so the rules on infringements must be clear, further sports participation should also be possible for young people without having to have a high additional cost for them again. In the New Slovenia Group we have tabled several amendments to the bill, unfortunately only two have been adopted or it is good that these two have been adopted. It is difficult to understand why the term “sports recreation” is not replaced by the word “sports for all”, although this term is also established in international documents, both by the International Olympic Committee and by the Council of Europe and by some other organisations. “Sport for all” is a broader concept than just sports recreation and can be understood differently in another language. For this reason, we have tabled these amendments again and we propose to vote them as well. The employment of disabled athletes in the Slovenian Army is also an important area regulated by the law. They cannot, of course, be subject to certain health criteria because they are persons with special needs, so we have proposed an exception for disabled athletes who have been accepted by the Committee. With this, we Members have once again shown our affection and support for disabled athletes. Members of New Slovenia want this area to be thoroughly and well regulated, but this is certainly not a good journey, which some point out is constitutionally controversial and will go to the Constitutional Court. The law should be useful and effective. Because of all of the above, New Slovenia – Christian Democrats We cannot support the proposal for a law on sport unless other amendments are adopted. However, we will not oppose him because two of our very important amendments have been adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u61	The word shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, for whom Dr. Miriam Bon Klanjšček has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Your Honor! We have before us a proposal for a law on sport, which we have discussed for a long time on the working body of the mother. Opinions were different, and some might agree, but unfortunately not with others. Nevertheless, we welcome the Government's decision that time and energy are intended to amend the Sports Act, which has not undergone a thorough overhaul since its adoption. We are pleased that the proposal for a law pursues the goal of life-long movement and a healthy way of life for all groups of people, because it is only in this way that society as a whole will be able to maintain a healthy lifestyle and transfer it to the next generation. In the Group of Non-Related Members, we support the proposaler's desire to improve the quality of professional work in sport, to protect the rights of athletes and to regulate the specificity of working in sport. These areas are still very current and it is commendable that the Government is aware of them. We fear, however, that it will remain only with desire, for knowledge alone is not enough. Indeed, as we have heard during the debate at the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth, many athletes have already been violated their right to work, such as regular payments, and some even to adequate rest. Sporting in itself requires greater effort and focus than in normal working relationships, so rest for an athlete is even more important for regeneration, prevention of possible injuries and a healthy lifestyle. The bill before us even deliberately deviates from the system-wide regulation of labour relations, which is justified by the nature of the work in sport and underlines the importance of an individual agreement between an athlete or a professional worker in sport and an employer. We must be aware that, despite the specific nature of the sport work, a sport worker or professional is still treated as a worker and thus remains in a subordinate position to the employer, which means that he is not an equal negotiator in concluding a contract of employment as the founder would like to show the changes to the law. As this easily bypasses the Labour Relations Act, it raises the issue of adequate labour and legal protection of the worker, as the law does not provide a framework in which the rights of the athlete would be guaranteed at all. As we have heard at the Committee's meeting, one of the reasons concerns also the payment capabilities of individual clubs which, due to irregular sources of funding, cannot afford to conclude employment contracts. We wonder in what way the law strengthens and protects the rights of athletes and professional workers in sport, which states as one of the objectives of the Sports Act, if it is clearly put on the side of clubs, in which case the employer. We would like the Ministry to devote more time in particular to harmonising not only long-term coordination with all players in sport, thus preventing the irregularity of the situation with regard to the athlete or professional in sport from continuing to the employer. We will decide after the debate on how we will vote on the Sport Law proposal by unrelated Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u63	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 5. 2017. Since the amendments of the New Slovenia Group and the amendments of the SDS Group to Article 2 are substantively linked to the amendments of the same applicants to Articles 6, 16, 51 and 54, we will discuss these articles together. I therefore put to the debate paragraphs 2, 6, 16, 51 and 54 and the amendments of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors and the amendments of the SDS Group to this article. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. The word is Micah Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, chairman. As we have already said in the United Left, this law solves some of the acute problems that have arisen in the field of sport. Unfortunately, however, it does not address the most controversial issue, which is also the central issue of Slovenian society, this is a social issue, the issue of labour rights. Sporters in most cases are not analogous to management employment as handled by the Ministry. The Ministry somehow sees only those top athletes who have the possibility of individual sponsorships that carry them forward through their careers. But we can't just watch an exposed sports summit. They're not just Tina Maze, Angie Kopitar, Peter Prevc and so on, most athletes are proletarians. We have a sports proletariat that works and engages in extremely poor conditions. As soon as we look at what handball league, second, third football league, we find Janez Novak on the espionage, who kicks the ball for 600 euros and does not have any protection under the title of labour law. Now the ministry has obviously decided that this is not enough to simply legalise this state of hidden employment. Look out! Don't go off, legalize. And it wrote the law so that the employment contracts for athletes under the new slave-owner contract are worse than if some athlete works through espionage. Not only that! Articles 59 and 60 also provide for provisions on the chaining of such employment contracts. The Labour Relations Act allows for such chaining, extension of contracts to a maximum of two years. Well, the Sports Act overtakes labour law and allows chaining up to 10 years. For 10 years, after a new athlete or sportsman, an expert in sports, we must not forget to extend the contract from year to year, he will not receive any social security, he will always shake at the job, but of course he also comes with low wages. And the Sports Act as a district law suspends the Labour Relations Act, briefly suspends little, repeals its provisions! It is therefore not only problematic for sports proletariat, but it is problematic for the working class in general. Since the perspective that is open to us here is that, yes, as trade unions and labour representatives will negotiate for, say, a new labour law that would provide more protection for employees, workers, then there will be one sectoral law, another sectoral law, a third sectoral law and it will be written in each sector that the provisions of the Labour Relations Act do not apply or apply selectively. In this way, there is a grave violation of labour legislation. This intention is clearly deeply anti-working and directed against the organisation of employees in an interest group capable of fighting for its rights. If we have today hidden working relationships in or outside sport, which at least on paper can be prosecuted and sanctioned, this simply will not be possible in the sports sector by adopting a new law on sport. It won't be possible anymore! Since the hidden working relationship is the relationship between the total subordination and the pecuniary nature of the employee, this law is legalized. Therefore, there will never be any collective agreements under this heading. I think that in his position the representative of the largest coalition party stressed that, yes, because athletes can already organise their collective agreement. Yeah, that might be true, but with this law passed, it'll be one more thing. Infringement of labour law will also no longer be possible to prosecute. That is why we have already amended paragraphs 59 and 60 on the Committee in the United Left, and unfortunately our amendments have been rejected. Coalition parties, i.e. SD, Desus and SMC, were even so deaf that they were not even willing to leave these very controversial articles open, despite the repeated calls made by counterpart Miriam, who chairs the committee. What do these paragraphs 59 and 60 say? Article 59, in its first paragraph, recognises that the provisions of the Labour Relations Act also apply to sport, but immediately thereafter, in the next step in the second paragraph, this abolition of labour protection shall be pursued. I will quote this second paragraph of Article 59: “In the case of the conclusion of a contract for the employment of athletes or professional workers referred to in Article 46(2) of this Law, the Contracting Party may,” and now, note this, “in the employment contract, whatever the limits laid down by the law governing working relations, otherwise regulate the rights, obligations and responsibilities of the employment relationship...” and then follow the tax procedure as to what else these provisions of the employment relationship may determine. If I go in line for a few more terms and limits of working relationship for a certain period of time. According to this, a new employer of a sports proletarian will be able to legally force him to adopt extended working hours, excessive working hours, if you would like. This is also discussed by the second indent, which directly tantamount to working hours. The third indent ensures rest and rest, including these holidays and rests are no longer necessarily provided under the Labour Relations Act, but rather the relationship of power between a subordinate worker, a sports proletarian or a sports expert and his superior employer. The remuneration for work is the fourth indent, including what is once no longer guaranteed by the principle of fair pay for honest work, but it is a matter of agreeing two in the market of equal players who are, of course, in reality in a distinctly different position, with the worker being the weaker side and the employer being the stronger side. And then we continue in the fifth indent with disciplinary responsibility and the sixth indent of the termination of the employment contract, and there too will be a sports proletariat at the mercy and mercy of the employers. However, this cynicism does not end here, but it continues in paragraph 60, which is similar to the second paragraph of the previous paragraph: "in spite of the provisions of the law governing working relationships concerning the limitation of the conclusion of fixed-term contracts for the management of the same work, an athlete or a professional worker referred to in Article 46(2) of this Law may be subject to the same employer..." and there is now a chain of contracts, "the conclusion of several successive contracts of fixed-term employment, whose continuous duration may not be longer than ten years." Tell me if I'm illiterate or if that actually means legalizing the chaining of employment contracts. And for one year, a lousy contract, and for another year a lousy contract, and for a third year a miserable contract, which goes on virtually indefinitely for this period of those ten years. And here, the ministry, I don't know if they've made a deliberate law with a measure of cynicism that's already going to give the sport industry a little bit of a push, or if they just don't know what they're doing or what's in this law. The excuse that there are such or other specifics of work in this industry is not a good excuse enough to suspend the Labour Relations Act, which guarantees a minimum. If individual contracts on these standards are adopted, this is still possible, so it is not necessary to remove the security guards protecting employees, that is, people from total social dumping and wild market exploitation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ludmila Novak has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. We are therefore discussing the amendment to Article 2, which speaks of replacing the word “sports for all” with the word “sport for all”. I have already said in my opinion that “sport for all” is an established professional term, including in various international documents. We must say that I did not get a sufficient explanation on the committee, why we cannot take this into account. Of course, certain interested groups were against this term, but international documents show that this is a broader term and that it covers more than just a word “sports recreation union”. I therefore propose that these amendments be confirmed. However, what Mr Miha Kordish asked whether he was writing or illiterate, I will say that he was not writing because in his previous explanation of the amendments he was talking about completely different things, just not about the amendment tabled.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u68	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. First, I would like to remind once again the parliamentary group, especially the SMC – I am looking at the Modern Centre Party programme, the area of sport – for what? To promote social inclusion and national excellence. How? Support the development of sport for all. This is the first thing, in short, sport for all, we offer it to you, and you are against what you have in your program. Second thing. Today we have heard a lot about how this law is coordinated and is almost all in line. Dearly beloved, I have before me a letter – because everyone has received it, but I apologize to those who have taken it into your hands and read it once, but I believe that it is not – whose signatories are the Fitness Association of Slovenia, the Roma Sports Union of Slovenia, the Slovenian University Sports Union, the Sokol Association of Slovenia, the Sport Union of Slovenia, the Association for Sport Recreation of Slovenia, who want to amend the relevant law so that it will be in line with international guidelines and the situation in Slovenia in the field of sport for all. Here they speak in the same way as everyone with whom we met in the parliamentary offices of the National Assembly or in the field: “The Government adopted the Law on Sport on 22 December 2016, following a rapid procedure. We do not agree with certain content because the procedure was unreasonable and we do not know why a different proposal for law came into the procedure in the National Assembly than it was coordinated.” It says: “The law has been in existence for a long time and has included most representatives of the civil sport sphere in the discussion in the first phase of the preparation. We're talking about a version of the bill dated 20. 6. 2016, which was previously dealt with and endorsed by the Section for Sport of the Republic of Slovenia and later mediated in intersectoral coordination. Regrettably, we have found that the version of the Law is 22. 12. 2016, endorsed by the Government, does not include significant changes such as those of 20. 6. 2016.’ In short, changes over stakeholders you like to mention. Moreover, the latest version was confirmed only and only by the Executive Committee of the Olympic Committee, which, in our view, is co-creator of this law, at its correspondence session, without previously provided material to the members of the Executive Committee and without appropriate discussion. Everyone could talk about this law, and the real version was coordinated and forwarded to the procedure somewhere near the secret society of PGC. Let me conclude with this introductory, general part, which reads: “We believe that it is in the interest of all of us to have laws adopted in line with the civil sphere.” That's what they called it. Thus, we have six institutions operating across Slovenia, with which you have not aligned one part. And it's not some ideological part that you could say that these are organizations that share left, right, but are people who do sports for everyone. And these people warn: “We do not support the proposal of the Sports Act because it does not adequately support sport for all and, above all, does not follow the guidelines of the Council of Europe.” The Council of Europe shall be held at its meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly 12. Ten. 2016, so not long ago, adopted a resolution on sport for all. “We warn that the strict use of the term “sports recreation” and its literal English translation would create the wrong perception of the area by foreign organisations.” And so on. In our opinion, only editorial correction, but the coalition in the pit “will not support almost none of the opposition”, including such editorial corrections, at least so obviously at the committee meeting, does not support. I therefore appeal today that if you wish to make reference to how you have aligned everything with stakeholders in this area, this editorial correction should also be confirmed by pressing the button for the proposed amendments prepared by both us and colleagues in Novi Slovenija. We hope that the term “sport for all” will not become an ideological field, but it will become what they also have in the international process, which is “Sport for all”. And I hope Uncle Google will tell you what a fitting comparison of this English term is if you don't trust yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Saša Tabakovic has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u70	Mr President, thank you for your floor. As has already been said today, we are re-examined by the Sport Act, which will, of course, allow various benefits and adjustments at several levels of sport. This certainly means a lot more benefits for citizens as regards free sports programmes. For amateur athletes, all those whose monthly payment is lower than the minimum wage shall not be liable to pay the compensation for a crossover. The Institute of Sports Rights is being established, i.e. the Ombudsman of Sports Rights. Civil sport will be involved in the preparation of an annual sport programme at local level. Public funds will be distributed more quickly and more transparently among recipients and so on and so on. In short, it's a roof marriage, as it was said. I must admit that the debate on the working body, given the scope of the law itself and also the fact that the law has not actually been amended in the last, for example, has been bad for 20 years, that, in my view, it has been quite correct and concrete, of course, with certain exceptions. In view of the fact that some debates have gone a little wider, I feel it is good to respond to some of the facts myself. The fact that the law is in no way harmonised is not true. Nor did the Legal and Legislative Service break up the law. She had comments on a little more than half of the articles. It is true, however, that many of these comments were of a nomotechnical nature. It is true, however, that there are some open issues on the working body, which have, of course, been manifested here today through the amendments tabled for the plenary session. It is true that, at the outset, it has been said that we have to discuss in a sort of order, but the practice is such that Members can, of course, be more broadly defined to the amendments tabled, so of course also allow me to define myself, of course, to the various amendments that have been tabled in this plenary session. The coalition has also tabled an amendment to Article 34. Just like the opposition. In the light of the concerns expressed at the working body's own meeting, which regulates any compensation or compensation related to the transfer of an athlete to the autonomous rules of sport organisations, taking into account also the opinion of the ZPS regarding the interference with the autonomy of the sports associations themselves. This means that regulating relations with athletes in relation to the offence, as well as regulating the relations between sports organisations, is left to free regulation and the agreement. However, it is considered that the condition of a breach by paying the compensation for a breach limits the free movement of workers. Therefore, the compensation system itself must, of course, be allowed only to the extent that it pursues a legitimate objective. Here I would add that the law preserves the guardian, or prohibits sports organisations from committing a sportsman to pay in the event of a breach, i.e. those athletes who are under 15 years of age, or an athlete who receives payment from an organisation to a minimum wage, to which the ombutsman has also been warned, and this has also been taken into account under this law, especially since the law also introduces stricter and more precise inspection and criminal sanctions in the event of a solution, so that we also respond to the coalition amendment to the opposition's amendments, which we will not therefore support. As regards the opposition's amendments relating to the field of sports recreation, which has also been discussed, which have also been tabled at the working body's own meeting and also rejected, in the SMC Group, we believe that they are too interesting to favour one sport entity for all beyond the definition of the term. This has also been pointed out by a number of stakeholders who felt that it was somehow inappropriate for such broad powers to be shared within all the so-called sports structures. If I start with a professional council called the Government, as my consultative body, it does not seem personal to me that most members should be appointed by the Government on the proposal of other proposers. I also think it is wrong to state by law that a member is proposed exclusively by the Faculty of Sport, because we also have two other faculties that also carry out public study programmes in the field of sport, so of course it would not be right to favour just one college. Also, the Sport Union is not representative of all and does not represent all sports associations in the field of recreation, so that, of course, they may also be a somehow relevant candidate for members of the professional council in this respect. In any event, the training programme for sports recreation, as proposed by the law, prepares OKS in cooperation with the colleges implementing the current programme and, of course, are also members of the Sport Union for all parts of OKS that have already been listed today. Moreover, the OKS Regulation states that the first Vice-President is a representative of local sports associations and is also the President of the Sport Professional Council for all that means that he can and, of course, this is also expected of them to complement all of them, including those members, substantively, and also respond, to various proposals that touch on sports recreation itself. That is why, of course, we cannot support these amendments in this respect as well. I'd even touch the definition or the term itself. If the term “sport recreation” is replaced by “sport for all”, of course, certain problems could also arise in the implementation, i.e. there could be overlaps between programmes in this sense and it would be difficult to determine in this way who can then apply and who does not. Of course, there could also be problems in the field, because of course the national programme would use one term, the law of another. And somehow I think it is best that, of course, in the use of terms, it is also most transparent for users themselves, that of course there is a single terminology definition in all documents, especially because the National Sports Programme was also adopted unanimously at all levels and then, of course, no one objected to the use of the term “sports recreation”. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Lisec has a procedural nature. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u72	Thank you, Vice President. I may be a picolovian, but you know or you know that we are members of the working committees to amend the Rules of Procedure, the first to be bound by the Rules of Procedure. And they were open paragraphs 1, 2, 6, 16, 51, 54. Now we hear just two of the debaters about everything that's alive. We are hearing about a general debate that we did not have, but we are hearing about articles that are not open, and we are hearing about all other things, but perhaps it is only then that someone in the last sentence mentions “sport for all”. Therefore, Mr Vice-President, both you and all the others who hold the meetings, if we already have the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, please hold to it in this exercise, so that the debaters are reminded that they are not discussing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Otherwise, it seems to me that it is our effort to have some better rules of procedure, a completely lame thing, and we can throw those proposals into the archives as well as the entire rules of procedure. As the SMC Group will obviously have to put its programme in the archive, because you are talking about the Sports Act, but then I will report to the debate. In short, my procedural proposal – that anyone who does not talk about articles that are open and to which amendments are tabled, who should be discussed to remind them of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Please proceed procedurally, Mr. Sasa Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u74	Thank you very much. I thank Mr Lisco for, of course, drawing attention to the rules of procedure. Of course, I think it is appropriate that, of course, the rules of procedure are properly followed. Now, of course, I did not just say everything on the average, but I also spoke with regard to certain amendments tabled, which was also the practice of this National Assembly. Now, if we're as pesky as Mr. Moon, because of me, Lisec, I'm sorry. [[…]] Because of me, of course, I can, and I do not have any problems with this, but I hope that, of course, there are also so many Piccolovos in my fellow Members, when they will also have to discuss the amendments tabled exclusively in the order in which they are tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u75	Thank you very much. All I have to say is that I have been hit by this way of running and then, of course, this has been going on for three years now, Mr Lisec, and, of course, I don't know if not even at the request of the opposition. So it would not really be that the president is always a little nervous when this is happening, but this is the point where we have given up and, of course, we are now not to mention this practice. [[…]] However, it is true that we had a working group around the Rules of Procedure again today and we wanted to, but I hope that, once the new Rules of Procedure are adopted, we will also stick to this point. And I agree with you that it would be smarter. Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič, Minister of Education, Science and Sport, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u76	Thank you very much, chairman. Perhaps in an additional explanation regarding the term “sport for all” and sports recreation. Indeed, “Grassroots Sports” is also used more widely within the Council of Europe and also in the European Commission, including in some international documents. “Sport for all” represents 5 areas, which are also very clearly drawn and divided within the National Sports Programme, which has also been unanimously adopted in this Parliament, and represents only one area of sports recreation. At the same time, let me say that sports recreation is also a representation in the professional world through representatives and all representatives of the professional council have agreed to arrange for the designation and conceptual understanding in this law in the manner proposed. Perhaps only in interpretation to all, we should not really equalise just one part, i.e. one area called “port for all”, because sports recreation is, of course, a narrower segment both professional and implementing, and of course all other areas. It is true, however, that the national sport programme introduces this designation, and it is therefore also reasonable to maintain this consistency in implementing acts, for example when we go to the call for proposals, when we publish applications or annual work programmes, so that this consistency is not confused. So much for an explanation. So the professional world made that decision, and then we followed his direction. Perhaps, however, the President, irrespective of procedural proposals, but now one very important explanation. If all the elements of the working relationship are involved, we must follow the Labour Relations Act. Even in sports. This is an answer to an earlier subject that is not open within the amendment or articles, but the point is that for the first time, even in this law, we are introducing this area, so where the elements are all clear, the working relationship must be concluded. Let us also maintain past status according to the specificity of activities in the sport sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Replica, please, Mr. Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, chairman. You have now stated that where there are regular working relationships in sport, we must have a contract there on this regular working relationship, but this law does not provide anything like that. Nothing at all, I mean, I believe it's just your sentiment that you want things to go this way, but this law says otherwise. [[…]] Your own words in Articles 59 and 60 say that the Labour Relations Act can be briefly thrown into the basket, that people are given extremely bad contracts and this situation is extended from year to year for 10 years. That's what these articles say.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss Articles 2, 6, 16, 51 or 54? Just one? Please sign up. Please, Mr. Tomaž Lisec, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u80	Thank you. Very short and very specific debate on “sports recreation” or “recreation for all”. I will support our amendments, but the fact that the proposed amendments are contrary to what the bill-maker has prepared, and this is not only the Ministry of Education, but, let's be honest, the Olympic Committees. This law is coordinated exclusively with the Olympic Committee or in a certain part of this law, which I have previously pointed out. In short, instead of some width – as you yourself said – recreation is for an ever-widening segment – you go into a narrower segment, which is called sports recreation and the rule of the Olympic Committee. Another issue which is controversial, Madam Minister, and which I also drew attention to at the meeting of my mother's working body. You are referring to: »The National Sports Program speaks about sports recreation.« Then we no longer respect the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia – constitution, laws, sub-legal acts. And I cannot believe that in this mandate it is happening, brutally compared to previous mandates, that there are rules, regulations, resolutions, national programmes over the law. They're not! These must be implementing acts based on laws. In this mandate, you first adopt the rules and then you come to the National Assembly with the law and you say, "Her, the Minister or the Minister has signed under the rules, and not to give double work, you have a law here, the coalition will burn it anyway, and the opposition can jump into the sky." In this mandate, you are changing the constitutional practice of adopting acts in this country. First you adopt the law, then you adopt the law, first you adopt the law, and then you say, "We adopt the law on this basis." Your Honor, we can't do this anymore, because not only do we throw the rules of procedure into the archives, we throw the constitution. We have the exact hierarchy of acts. We are now listening: “Because we have something in the law, on this basis we are solving matters in the law.” No, the law is that act that defines, and if necessary, a matter called the National Sports Programme should also be changed under this law. Everything else is an argument taken from a drawer that does not contain legal judgment. But I will discuss the legal judgement of this law with the following articles, which we will discuss, which are also amended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u81	Thank you very much. I'm closing this first set of amendments. I am putting to the debate Article 27 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. Since the amendments of the SMC, Desus and SD groups to Articles 34, 85 and 88 are substantively linked, we will discuss them together. I therefore put to the debate paragraphs 34, 85 and 88 and the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 34 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD groups to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 38 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the SDS Group. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Tomaž Fox, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u82	Thank you. I just want to point out one more thing about how this law is harmonised. Earlier, at Article 34, 27, we proposed an amendment on the basis of a proposal from the Sports Foundation, which in our view is an important organisation in the field of sport, and we believe that the amendment will experience the clavatory fate of the SDS Group's amendments. So much for the consistency of this law. As far as Article 38 is concerned, it is essentially a very small dictatorshipal amendment to this law. In this law we have, as has already been said, a new professional council and a world for accreditation and the professional council has 17 members, and the fact is that most of it has a government. We want two things to be more specific here. One is that those of whom we talked about before – the Sport for All Union – also have an additional member in this Professional Council also have those who are professionally engaged in sport issues through the educational process – the Faculty of Sport. In short, it is a editorial change that would also allow someone from the Faculty of Sport to discuss, define and adopt relevant matters concerning this system law, the Law on Sport. But apparently, some are first-class and others are second-rate. It saddens me that you did not recognize the Faculty of Sport as the highest entity in the field of education and sport, i.e. what is already on behalf of the department. And that's why we're proposing this amendment and asking for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Can I close this debate on this article? Good. I am putting to the debate Article 52 and the amendment of the NSI Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the SDS Group. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 62 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the United Left Group. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Miha Kordish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Since our amendments to the Committee, which protect the rights of athletes under Articles 59 and 60, have been closed down, and we have not been able to table these amendments again for the meeting of the National Assembly, so we have reached out on the following things and on the next tool available to us, namely the amendment of 62. A member. This 62nd Article reads as follows: “A private sports worker and a professional athlete who does not meet the conditions for the conclusion of the employment relationship referred to in Article 59 of this Law may carry out independent work in sport.” It is said that, five minutes ago, Madam Minister stated that it is right to introduce regular employment contracts where regular employment is concerned, this article actually introduces them. This brings us back to the labour law of the city to which it belongs and to the sport proletariat at least basic social and legal protection. Since, when it comes to elements of a working relationship or if it is a de facto working relationship, even if it is covered in a regular working relationship, even if it is covered in a contract with respect to espionage and so on, this regular working relationship with this amendment must also be concluded. There's no way around it. If this law goes forward without the adoption of our amendment, then the covert working relations will also fall in the courtroom, because the situation will be legalised. And there the employer will draw out the Sports Act, draw out his 59th article, draw out his 60th article, and say: “Look, because it says here publicly, I can either accept any contract with an athlete or a sports professional, as we agree on, but there is nothing illegal about it, even if it says there that he will work for a miserable low wage, under a minimum wage, even if he writes there that he will not have any rest at work, even if he writes there, that he will have to work from morning to evening every day. And if we do not accept this amendment, the situation in sport, which is already very bad, will worsen as contracts for the employment of that contract, which would otherwise guarantee workers' rights and regular payments to employees, will become slave-ownership contracts. The employed athlete will be totally unjust in relation to the employer, the wild market, the wild market, the dream of Milton Friedman are being introduced to us in the sports industry. Perhaps even deliberately because we all know that Slovenian athletes are very poorly organized, they are difficult to collectively stand up for their rights. And this seems like a very appropriate place to start by enshrining the right to work organisation and to the level of labour rights that is still in force in our legislation, we all know that in practice it is more common than it is not completely playing. It raises a very serious question, however, where are the specifics that advocates of this law refer to in justifying the suspension of labour rights, for example, with a swimming teacher in a full-time swimming club, learning all youth categories and being able to manage them for 10 years for a certain period of time, and will have no right to rest, no fundamental social security. From year to year it will be perfectly legal, once again I stress this, extending the contract over a period of 10 years. And we've created a brand new category of nicknames that is even worse than the already poor protection of the working class. Where, then, are those characteristics of this regular working relationship that justify the full suspension of the Labour Relations Act and the sports proletariat being left to the mercy and indignation of their employers? In my previous debate and not least when I presented the United Left's position on this issue, I have repeatedly pointed out that this is not just about athletes, it is also about professional workers in sport. And if we only take a law on sport, in fact this perfect precaration also tanges sports education professors at primary schools, at high school and so on. Yes, they have those alongside the ZOFVI, but they have a collective agreement that protects them, but if we only take the provisions out of the Sports Act, this Sports Act says that some of the perfoxes of sports education can be given a contract peacefully for one year and this is extended over a period of 10 years. That's what he says. Of course, I've only listed here one of the most extreme, most absurd cases, but it's only a matter of short notice under this law. Otherwise, it is below, just a second to look at the paragraph, this is Article 6 of the Sport Programme and the performers, the second paragraph lists tax collectors of sports programmes and then in here we also find institutions in the field of education and education that issue publicly valid programmes, these are schools. So I'm not making anything up here. In short, if I finish. This amendment of ours is the last safeguard against the total exaggeration of the sports industry, against the total brutal use of the sport proletariat. I therefore hope, I call on all Members, this time at this meeting, to overcome more wisdom than they did on the committee when all these amendments were shot down, and at least they support this amendment to Article 62. And don't forget, it's not just Petri Prevci and Tina Maze in sports. The vast majority of athletes are on espies, working for 600 euros and have virtually no rights. And this law does not give them these rights, even though there is a person in the executive branch of power who swears that this area is finally regulated. So how's it arranged? Yes, it's arranged so that nothing is arranged that there are no rights for sports proletarians in here. And as long as you're not a perfect champion to be able to rely on individual sponsorships, you'll probably be even more exploited than any student who's working on a guide to get through his life during his studies, more used in a worse situation. This tells you everything you need to know about the relationship to the sports sector of the Slovenian government and its coalition.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u86	Thank you. Even though we are a little more liberal with regard to the rights and representations of athletes in the SDS Group, we must say that we are appalled when we read paragraphs 59 and 60 of the law, which is, as colleague Kordish has already said, insane and brutal. We are talking about several issues, one of which is labour rights, and in this area we have a law called the Labour Relations Act, which these two articles deny. And then we tried, given what the Rules of Procedure allow us to do, to change that into Article 62. First, this 59th article, which we want to amend with article 62, says very nicely in the first paragraph: “The employment relationship between athletes and professional workers in sport is governed by the law governing working relationships.” In fact, the second article denies everything: “In the case of the conclusion of a contract of employment with an athlete, the contracting parties in the contract of employment may, irrespective of the limitations laid down by the law, otherwise regulate.” In short, we have the Labour Relations Act – Workers' Rights – which we deny. Sportsmen, except for the first time having individual contracts, or the second time, are already abroad, will drive more athletes abroad besides more young people who will go with the belly for bread. In short, it doesn't make any sense. We would like to see at least collective agreements entered into this law, if this is not already in law, so that within the collective agreement these relations can be a little more fragmented. Now, at a board meeting, the ministry and the majority of the government have overrun all of this, if that's cool, what we're proposing, and no deal is changed. Although we think that, and we are reminded of this by athletes who have predicted that if the text remains the same as it was after the meeting of the mother's working body, Slovenia's athletes will probably tomorrow, perhaps not be joined by those who are lucky enough to have individual contracts, for the first time to have a protest, for the second time, after the adoption of the law, they will require a constitutional review of the law, and for the third time, this is purely fresh information, probably even a legislative referendum, because athletes as workers with this law are violating fundamental rights. If that's what you want, no, we won't sign this, but we'll give the athletes the right. And all that nice talk, Slovenian athletes are our best brand and so on, but here are not only Petri Prevci and also top 10 perhaps the most successful athletes. We've got athletes breaking through day in and day out. Just look at the collective sports, football, handball, basketball, and you can look at those who are in the best clubs, how many individual contracts there are, how many market and employer left behind. And that this debate on these particulars in sports is even more brutal, says 60. Article: Notwithstanding the provisions of the law governing working relationships, a sportsman or a professional member of the same employer may conclude several successive fixed-term contracts with the same employer for a fixed-term period of not more than 10 years. That's crazy! I'm just waiting for them to put into culture all the other segments of what is a fixed-term contract. And if what we now have in the Labour Relations Act is unfortunately exploited, employers take advantage of it and the inspectors do not abolish it, but here is the legislator himself or I will correct myself, the lawmaker, the executive branch of the government is preparing such a normal law that everyone wants us to support. In the SDS Group, however, we cannot really support the law, where you speak so brutally about contracts for a certain period of time. 10 years – What security, respected colleagues from Desus and SMC, who are considered to be so social, sensitive? When any athlete comes to talk and talk about how they are protected, we will say, respectable, go to those parliamentary groups that talk a lot about the social status of employees and support such nonsense that are in this proposal of the law after second reading on the parent's working body. Or do you really want a referendum or a constitutional opinion? I believe that constitutional judgment doesn't mean anything to you because you know that the next term with the next Prime Minister of the Government and the next Minister of Education is likely to be the one who will be asked and who is signed under this law. In short, if you do not want athletes to go abroad, if you do not want a constitutional opinion or even a referendum, be not only sober, but work with what we have in Slovenia, which is the Labour Relations Act, and support anything that reduces the rights of Slovenian athletes will not be adopted. As regards the conclusion of fixed-term contracts, you probably know this, not only in accordance with the Labour Relations Act, but also with the European Directive. And there will be one special feature, you'll blink your shoulder a little bit and say, "Everything is great and it's coordinated with everyone." Today, I have counted at least 7, 8 stakeholders with whom it is not coordinated. I previously counted 6 in the Sports Act, I counted Sport for everyone, the Sports Foundation, the Sports Faculty, and now we get the ones we talk about most, the Sports Union. Do we really want such a necessary law as the Sports Act to get such a big black spot and such a stain that it is not in the key part of working rights in line with athletes? At this point is what we said in the SDS Group, whether we oppose or support the law. We will be following with interest not only the vote on the whole law, but, above all, the amendment, how much in the words of those who speak about labour rights, how many of you are then husband and wife when you press the key in exactly the opposite of what you say. The decision is very simple if you want to do the same thing you are also saying to support the amendment to Article 62. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u88	The issue is mainly in this direction whether there are specialities in sport, unlike other classical working relationships that we know in the labour and legal process. Of course they are. And it's drastic. Tell me a sport where someone would theoretically get a job at, say, 18 years old and retire at 65. Tell me! It's not like that. It doesn't exist! And that's why today we're building some fantasy about how we're fighting and we need to fight for athletes and give them some legal protection in terms of God taking him along with a new union that's fighting and laying its foundations on the foundation, because I want to take some role in defending athletes, of course, there's one root problem that we all need to know, at least those that we've worked as sports workers in sport and we know what it really means in practice. This is that today, otherwise if you ask athletes, every athlete would, of course, want to have a contract for indefinite time and be safe, that in peace he will build his professionalism in that sport where, for the first time, the club where he will have such a contract will fail, because we know that Slovenian clubs in Slovenia do not actually have such resources as to ensure that they can even make plans for ten, fifteen years ahead, as companies do, to do their own vision, developmental. It's just not in sports. You know who the real sports union is? This is a cruel reality that needs to be easily recognised – agents. Agents are the ones who make the rules, not just with us, but everywhere in Europe and in the world. And agents come when they talk despite who would actually play at their club or as soon as they are 18 years old, every athlete joins him and immediately joins an agent who promises him dreams and fairy tales how he will take care of him and, of course, make sure that when the first contract comes together with his parents, they participate in the conclusion of such a contract. And in this contract, those who know these contracts write a lot of things. You know, that's why there's no collective agreements in the field of sport today and there won't be any. And those who travel today and talk about collective agreements, and even in your amendments you're going in this direction and even talking about some collective agreement that isn't, it's simply not, you're looking for some rights for athletes that we'd like in theory all of us to want, but legally and formally it's impossible to reconcile, so we know this difference, of course, that someone who's employed in sports is subject to labour laws, but allows for the possibility of, of course, that they have an individual contract, and they all have, and no athlete has the same contract with their fellow athlete in the same club, they're completely different. A colleague mentioned that this applies only to professional athletes, but those who are not, are not employed and most athletes work essentially part time, work at work or are carried out by parents and have a minimum contract with some amount that the club can afford. Why doesn't the club actually conclude a longer contract? Yes, because he simply cannot afford to simply shut down the club because of the contracts he has concluded, because he would become insolvent and then we know what legislation will come about, and then, of course, it's all over. And this desire and will to settle the status of athletes is, of course, bizarre. Bizarre mainly because, in fact, it is necessary to acknowledge the situation in Slovenian sport when we are talking about their contracts. In addition, look at the structure of athletes who are currently employed in ministries, and compare with all those who, for example, could be, because of their achievements, and do not even want to be employed in the ministry to understand each other. So this idea or this discussion about this, we will all get away, no one will stay in Slovenia See, athletes want to go abroad. [[...]] You know why? Because they want to have more because they want and because they know they will get offers that we simply can no longer provide in the Slovenian space. If we were able to talk ten years ago, that we could still talk about the contracts they get abroad, today in the Slovenian space it is only a theory and a dream. Look at the sponsors that fund these clubs, look, I'll say, donations, contributions. It's just gone. And why have we been talking all these years about something that needs to be fundamentally changed in sports? These times that were once that someone picked up the phone and arranged that the sports club got so much and so much money, let them clean up for growing times in some anals and memories because it's gone. It doesn't exist! And even if it is, it is such a contract, believe that the sponsors require, on the other hand, because the word sponsoring contract does not already comment on the donor contract, but means, on the other hand, a refund. And if there are no results, and if there are no conditions, then it's all over. The primary mission of sports clubs in Slovenia is recreation, the development of youth drive, and this is the essence of social work. And that's why it's a society, not an economic society, where it would apply, as a colleague from the United Left says, but we're already creating holiday workers and I don't know what else. That's just not what it is! And that's why, of course, sometimes it reminds me that this is a discussion where we don't want to know who – Slovenian to the public – to tell us how we fight for something that we don't. The contract concluded by the agents together on behalf of their athletes for the club is such that they can even afford to go out after two, three months. And you know how the piano ends with such good contracts? Most of the time, the club doesn't have the money because he made a commitment to a contract to pay certain obligations, and then the agent becomes free. And what kind of agent is that? The happiest moment for an athlete is because he has already promised him a new job and is already flying to another location. So, you know, if we wanted to settle this area, now we're talking about a collective agreement, in fact, we should set up a sectoral relationship at the European level, say something similar to what happened in football, and things would be much cleaner and clearer and, of course, the whole system would be subject to it. In other sector sports areas, in fact, this is not and does not exist. And that is why any debate in this direction is delusional and misleading and will not lead anywhere. So I suggest that we all be realistic when we discuss the law on sport and, of course, the proposed amendments that we are talking about today. Let me say it in the end. This does not, of course, oblige anyone that contracts concluded are not concluded in accordance with the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. Which means that all other institutions of control must also function, from FURS, from labour law, from the Ministry of Education and Sport, which also has its own inspection control in the field of the operation of sport and, of course, can act when there is an irregularity. And that's what we want to make possible, of course. And we need to decide today whether we are talking about turning sport into an economic society and thereby harmonising some of the labour legislation in force in companies. Therefore, you know, in the previous term, when we discussed the so-called mutual fund for athletes, we all knew that this was illusory, but it was, of course, very good politically, that this fund was then adopted. And what's the result? Even today, there is no interest of athletes to join this fund because they know what it means. Nothing. For them, nothing really, they have a total loss because the financial system is out of order. But it is true that someone else has been plotting plans to somehow come through the side door and control sports through players, and this, of course, can also be a union, if we call it that. I do not tell the union that it has no good intentions, only you purpose with these conditions and this legal order and, of course, with the philosophy of the operation of societies, they will never live because they cannot. Something else has to change first. That is why, unfortunately, I cannot support such proposals. And I say this from practice, it will not come alive, but it will result if such an amendment is accepted, only to fail, the ultimate failure of sports activities.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Tomaž Fox, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u90	Yeah, thank you, especially Jani, for actually telling me what name you're speaking for. I see, the organs of the KK Union of Olympia, the president. And of course, like many, the debate between employers-employers. And now, colleague Jani, you have said honestly, of course also from practice, which is understandable that you're just defending one thing. But the fact is, probably athletes know why they have agents and why they have agents. Because clubs prefer to talk to agents, because it's a mutual benefit, and then to athletes. Your Honor, if we look at the real 59th and the 60th. Article, we have to admit to ourselves that, yes, sport is a specific feature, but probably not as specific as that specified in 59th and 60th. A member. What scares me even more is that if we go here except for the Labour Relations Act, that we will probably experience a similar story in other areas.Then I look at my colleague Tabakovic, probably if in the field of culture such texts of articles are adopted, just for example, the employment of cultural and other professional workers in culture, that they are subject to the Labour Relations Act, unless the parties otherwise regulate rights. And as these regulated rights in individual Slovenian clubs, as you have received material at the very meeting of the parent working body, where you are shown how brutally one athlete can cancel overnight, because the club has set itself to have such goals with him, for example, to hit so many and so many goals, to give so many and so many baskets, it actually exists, what we have obtained at the committee's own meeting material, and that if someone fails to meet these conditions, it means that for the employer is too weak and can throw it on the road. And that's what this second paragraph of paragraph 59 is talking about. Articles, these specificities relating to conditions and restrictions of working relationship, working time, payment, disciplinary responsibility and so on. In short, I am very afraid of what we will do with these articles if they are accepted in a dictatorship, as proposed by the Government, what will happen to Slovenian athletes. I know damn well that there are problems in sports, that employers are those who hire athletes and that Slovenian clubs are fighting for survival. That is why we will also support another law in the majority of the SDS Group, which also speaks about sport, because we particularly want to ensure that the most successful clubs do not exist. But what helps us if we give this existence to clubs, additional financial support, if you want it directly, but if we put these sports club bosses in such a law where they have, I'll say, almost authoritarian rights over their employees. We therefore propose that you take a second look at paragraphs 59, 60 and our amendment to Article 62, which, at least a little, relieves this brutal dependence of an athlete on the employer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer was not well understood. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u92	It's a debate. But it's true, I guess I wasn't clear enough. I'll be very direct. The pain of each president of society is not an athlete. Far from it. I'd love to talk to him or the sports director, I'd love to, the pain is the agents. Agents are the ones who cause headaches to all the companies, remember. In fact, it is the agents who are relentlessly demanding conditions and far away from it and I can assure you that I have not signed another contract in my life with any athlete, where I can ensure that he has to throw so many and so many baskets, otherwise he will not get paid. Reverse. In fact, there was a requirement that he should play for so many minutes and so many minutes and be on the floor because otherwise I won't fulfill the contract and that's my pain. And you know very well that when a coach, I'll say, makes up a team and does tactics, of course he can't look back on the contracts and the minutes required by the agent. However, the problem is not only in this club you mentioned at my Union Olympia club, far from it. The problem is that we're also talking about third league companies. Excuse me, let me take a look at the budget of one club in the third league. Where he can even secure the conditions for hiring players for I don't know, for a year he doesn't hope to hire him, let alone for a couple of years. Nobody at the club's gonna let him do that, 'cause then they can just shut the door. In addition, you need to know that in the third league, if they get money, they get money, they get it, they sign up for different calls, they get money for the development of youth drive, and there's no employment because we're talking about young people. We are talking about development, the philosophy of sport and, of course, to capture as widely as possible, I will say, the number of young, future athletes, because the only thing we can expect later on mass is that quality and excellence will come out. Of course, what we want is what we want on the other side. So, Tomaž, this comparison was bad. I don't speak as the club president today. I speak as a Member and speak on behalf of all clubs facing financial difficulties. Of course, there is a different position in the third league, the second league or the first league, from industry to industry, different sports industries. Because we know that we have some sports industries that I'm going to say are top and are interesting and some that are very good, top quality, but not interesting for sponsors, for investors or for anyone. However, this law on sport still allows for solid development throughout the sport area. And that is what we must be interested in as Members of Parliament. And, Tomaž, unfortunately, no matter what you know, but I'm afraid you're more in favor of the idea of what's unreal, and it's advocated by some other power that, of course, would like to be a legitimate advocate of athletes, but unfortunately, the athletes won't allow it, it's proven over the years. I'd like to see the number of members of this union. I want to see him. Figuratively, I don't really care if I'm honest. But I do hope there's no mass there because there can't be. Because you know how it works. By the way, the first agents are parents who take care of their children and defend them, and until they're full-years old, they're the ones who perform in their name. Finally, they also work very actively in societies, which is nothing wrong, which is right. However, after the age of 18, the parents become ignorant of all these conditions, agreements as regards contracts, and, of course, the agent promises them to defend their rights and the agent becomes his union. Unfortunately, that's the way it is in sports, whether some people want to see it or not. By the way, every time I hear an agent, see or call me, my head hurts because I know he wants something again.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Dr. Maja Makovec Brenčič, Minister, has the floor. Did I get it wrong? Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Fox, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u94	Yes, thank you. Maybe two specific questions for the Minister. Regarding collective agreements: Do they hold information that in that draft proposal for a law of June 2016, the collective agreement, and in the law then by that law you introduced into the procedure of December 2016, you threw them out, according to your own words? The other thing that interests me, however, when we talk about labour law and the protection of athletes, is the EU's comparison. Where in European countries, in the field of labour law, the protection of athletes is regulated, as is the case with us, without collective agreements, beyond the labour law, by increasing espionage in sport or individual contracts? That's what I'm interested in. Thirdly, maybe Jani does not need to be public, given that the Union of Olympia Basketball Club is one of the most serious clubs, I hope it will be in the future, I wonder: How many employees does this club have? But I can get past the microphones of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss this article? Mr. Miha Kordish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u96	Thank you very much. I am still interested in why different segments of sports workers are imposed in the same basket. Here we have athletes, for whom the coalition and its government are calling themselves to deserve a 10-year contract chain and a universal exaggeration due to the specificities of their position. But how, hell, is then the analogous position of various trainers for youth categories and so on who come to work, say, at eight, nine, end at four, their careers do not end at 35 years old, but have a significantly longer sports career and do not have such a severe physical limit. This law applies to these people, too. And even for these people, the new Sports Act will be able to contract for 10 years. Why?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u98	Tomaž, you know, because you got the answer at the board meeting, which is actually the problem of the collective agreement. Yes, it is, there was coordination in this work too, but the government's service made it very clear that you can't write something that isn't, because you don't even know what's going on. After all, the desire and interest were to move certain things forward, but in the end it became clear that things were not going well. You know, for a collective agreement, there has to be interest on all sides, not just on one side. And that's one of the reasons why the collective agreement didn't happen today. And I don't personally believe that it will ever come because it would break the system. And this moment, given the conditions and the way sports societies function, is actually impossible. However, as noted by colleague Kordish, most of the trainers working for youth drive are subsidised and covered by funds for the implementation of youth programmes and only have a contract for as long as this money exists, otherwise. As far as professional sports coaches are concerned, I'm sorry, if you're just looking at and following things, they're fired in the middle of the season, it's the most normal thing. And more importantly, they're treated the same way as athletes. Exactly the same. There's no secret how many employees there are in Union Olympia. Employees are employees who are administratively screwing around so that this club can survive and operate like any professional club. But believe me, the moment that the club will no longer have these abilities, the job will stop, because otherwise society will simply be gone. And I hope it doesn't come to that, and of course I like that you want all the good Union Olympics to continue, I take that as a positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Dr. Maja Makovec Brenčič, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u100	Thank you, Chairman. Now is the time to explain the collective agreement. The proposal was contained in the June version, but the Office of the Government of Law suggested that we eliminate it because, while the Collective Contracts Act is already in force, it is a meridian and gives the opportunity and opportunity for the union to establish or form its collective agreement, i.e. from the validity of the Collective Contracts Act onward. That is why it does not make sense for us to repeat these opportunities and opportunities in law, but we have already explained this on the committee. As far as collective agreements are concerned, compared to Europe. We do not know the general collective agreements at some overall level of sport in Europe, but we do know collective agreements at the level of industry or discipline. Some are also very important, including very quality guidelines for the development of criteria and standards for the operation of certain sectors. For example, if we mention only UEFA standards and recommendations, some of these disciplines or sectors, we have also followed in drawing up some of the criteria for these guidelines.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Can we finish this discussion? Mr. Miha Kordish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u102	I would really like to hear the explanation why, if, in every way, a brutal market regime and all the general misrepresentation were to be introduced for athletes because of their specific industry, there were various professional sports workers in the same basket. We are not just talking about Union Olympics here, but we are not just talking about first-class clubs, but they will be here on impact, or they will be hit by John Novak in the third-seat league, which kicks the ball for 600 euros, and will be in a much worse situation after all. And these people don't have any strong agents. But to get back to the basic question. Someone who in some sports society learns swimming full time or something else, thus survives, why it is good for such a person to be chained for 10 years together from year to year. Why is it right for such a person to be suspended by labour law?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Maybe I can finish now. Thank you very much. So, I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided on Wednesday, 24 May in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. I'm breaking up the 12th item of the agenda. We're moving to 17. At the end of the day, that's a second defensively proposed bill on probing in the framework of the regular procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Goran Klemenčič, Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u104	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, thank you for your input. Dear Members and Members! More than 10 years ago, this National Assembly adopted a Resolution on the National Programme for the Prevention and Suppression of Crime for the period 2017-2011. It was the first time he used the word "probation" and clearly stated that Slovenia needed a probation service. Several further government or national constituency documents have repeated this requirement, but no realisation has taken place. Until today, when you have the chance to make it happen. Of course, the test has not yet been established in the Slovenian space, although, as it is said, it has been appearing in legislative and government documents for more than 10 years and in professional terminology for much longer. However, it is not new because, as has been said, it has been repeatedly exposed in various documents. This law will also, of course, help to enforce the expression and to strengthen its visibility. The trial is to deal with the perpetrators of the crime and to monitor their behaviour in order to address the causes that have affected the service of the crime. It is essential for a person to remain in an environment where he lives and works, while being limited to meeting certain obligations that already exist in the legal institutions of the trial, relating to matters such as: conditional sentences with protective supervision, conditional leave with protective supervision, work in general benefit, both criminal and criminal law, house imprisonment, work and the task of remedying and redressing the damage caused by delayed prosecution, and so on. In the current regime, some of the tasks defined in the new law are carried out by state prosecutors, social work centres, prison institutions and the execution of house prisons are supervised by the court alone or through the police. In their own words, these institutions are not doing this most effectively because it is a matter of fragmented competences and a lack of strategic development in this area. With the proposed law that removes these obstacles and the establishment of a leaking administration, we want to contribute to a lower rate of return among perpetrators of crime, to safer society and to the lower costs of execution of sentences, and to the burden of decommissioning prisons. In practice, the enforcement of sanctions and measures will be uniformed, greater concern will be given to in-depth professional treatment of offenders and the education of staff, emphasis will also be placed on the development of new working methods and new programmes for persons involved in penetration, and the development of a professional tool to identify risk factors. Inter-sectoral coordination and presentation of the law show that the professional public is widely inclined to adopt the law and that good inter-sectoral cooperation and integration with the local community are expected in law enforcement. It is envisaged that, if the law is confirmed, the operation of the probation service will start on 1 April 2018. The Procedural Service will also be established with the assistance of the European Social Fund, for which it is dedicated and already acquired €2 million. We are convinced that the law brings the necessary changes in the area of enforcement of criminal sanctions and that the effects of the law will be positive and relevant to society. Experience has shown that trying is an effective system of resocialisation of perpetrators of crime, which contributes significantly to reducing return and thus to ensuring greater social security. One bilateral information, Croatia was one of the last European countries to introduce it. Slovenia is in fact the last country in the European Union that does not have a probation service. In Croatia, between 20% and 30% of prison employment decreased in two years. For example, in Austria, there are 700 employees with an 8m-euro budget in the probation service, and this is a country that is only four times larger than the Republic of Slovenia, which suggests that the trial is a good investment in a safer and cheaper society in terms of providing criminal sanctions. The proposed law will therefore, in our opinion, establish the service we need in Slovenia. That's why we planned it in the strategic papers more than a decade ago. Since the business conditions are met, I also propose that a third consideration of the bill be held at the same meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Justice Committee as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Vice-President, Mr Jan Škobernet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! At its 37th regular session, the Committee on Justice considered the draft law on probation submitted to the National Assembly, as it appears, by the Government. In his explanation for the bill, the representative of the Government, Mr Stare, said that we do not have a specialised service in Slovenia at this time and that there are also specialised staff involved in the implementation of procrastination activities, so there are also various practices in this area in the implementation of the sanctions and other measures of restorative justice. Testing, however, is one of the most important activities or professional assistance in advising decision makers responsible for the adoption of warning sanctions and restorative measures. The purpose of the law itself is to establish a central service that will work uniformly throughout the territory of Slovenia in order to relieve probing activities of all stakeholders who are now Fragmantionally responsible for individual tasks or activities, in particular the State Prosecutor's Office in the context of settlements and the postponement of prosecution. Mrs Potočan, representative of the Council of State, expressed the Commission's support for the state regulation of the bill. However, according to the staff substantiation of social work centres, members of the Commission agreed that it was difficult to imagine their work with full-year and juvenile delinquents, given the reduced number of professional colleagues, to which the Secretary of State later replied and adequately argued the Government's moves and activities in this area following the possible adoption of the law. The representative of the Community of Centres for Social Work said, of course, that she had welcomed the sectional law and pointed out the problems already mentioned, which could have arisen when the staff were transferred from the social work centres to the procrastination administration and said that the network, which it establishes for the implementation of alternative sanctions, together with local self-government, is now full to this extent that no further inclusion is possible. In the debate, the opposition MPs proposed replacing the trial term with an appropriate Slovenian term, which was understood to be a positive proposal after being completed, but this is an established international term, which has already been used in the Slovenian speaking area in the past decade and has been understood as being credible and appropriate as such. The Secretary of State further explained this and added that the concern that any of the employees in the selection plan of the social work centres against his will would be fully exceeded in the probation service. Following the obstruction of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have accepted the amendments of the Committee and confirmed the proposal of the amended articles of the law, which is why the law is updated today before you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Following is a presentation of the views of the Group. Mag. Branko Grims presented the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u108	Dearly beloved, everyone has a very nice greeting on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party! Testing, like resocialisation, like that measure that improves efficiency, but in the positive sense of the word sanctions when it comes to re-integration into the environment when it comes to maintaining contacts with the environment, is certainly something positive, and here we all agree. The problem arises there, as is customary in the current government, so to speak in implementation. The law, as it was written, is impeccable. In fact, it will only have one real effect, the establishment of a new institution, probably some additional employment, some very big effects when only some of the things already already exist are reversed, and certainly not expected. Unfortunately, what we had in our comments and proposals were not taken into account, and thus everything that has been said about concerns with the current law, the proposal before you today certainly remains, and this is very justified. The costs will be considerable. Regrettably, given the lack of clarity and the inadequacy of the law, the effects are likely to be relatively small. In fact, we can find that the only real consequence, the only real one in this law, is that it enters into force on 1 April. We will not support the law, but we will abstain from voting.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u110	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Members and Members of Parliament, Minister of Respect! Today we are considering a proposal for a law whose main objective is to establish a Probation Service to deal with convicts, to reduce the risk of repeated danger, to relieve prisons and to increase the safety of victims. Slovenia is the only country in the European Union and also among the Member States of the Council, Europe, which does not yet have such services. Thus, the Probation Service, following the example of such services abroad, will take care of the resocialisation and reintegration of convicts on probation and those who will serve their sentences with alternative forms of criminal sanctions, such as work in general benefit. Such a proposal was also supported by the entire section during the coordination process. The Probation Service will allow offenders to remain in the community with a certain degree of restrictions on freedom. And what is important is that the perpetrators would also be subject to obligations. In all of this, it is essential to focus on reducing repetitive crimes by establishing positive relations with the perpetrators and by successfully integrating them into society. The perpetrator would thus continue to operate and live in his environment, and, as I have already mentioned, he would be limited in some way to meet certain obligations that the prosecution or the court would impose. For example, it is compulsory to treat addiction, to visit psychological counselling and the like. Every day in the media we read about events related to violations of persons on conditional leave in Slovenia, and these events indicate that systematic changes should be introduced in this area. In the Desus Group, we are convinced that greater repression, such as human imprisonment, does not allow effective criminal policy, but simply postpones the problem and makes it possible to repeat crimes. It is therefore all the more important to give greater emphasis to resocialisation, thus enabling better integration into society. It is also important to ensure the safety of victims of crime. The tasks of this service are intended to control, direct offenders and aid, with a view to assisting, on the one hand, the integration of offenders into society and, on the other, to contribute to a rise in the level of security in society. Various profiles of experts from social workers to psychologists are included in the work with the convict. In this way, assistance will be offered to the offender, such as a psychological therapeutic program, as well as treatment in case of dependence on alcohol or drugs. Slovenia has already carried out these activities, but not to the extent that it could. Most of this work is carried out by social work centres with the help of police, health and other organisations, but the current system has a lot of problems, so the bill is more than welcome. The fact is that there is no control over the sentenced and those on probationary leave in the current system, so changes are urgently needed. In the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we are convinced that the proposal represents a major step towards a safer society, and we will support it in the light of the above. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Škoberne will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues, again! Slovenia is therefore one of those countries that does not yet have this well-established and successful model after at least two decades of intensive central dialogue in the world, so it is important to introduce it and, in particular, to introduce it in a way that we do not continue to see fragmentation and, above all, to enable the broadest possible social benefit of the introduction of the model of experimentation. Of course, we are talking about the basic model, which means preventing isolation from the community and thereby reducing the degree of return, in a way, although post-festum, but it works preventively. In particular, it enables the long-term development of the community in order to find balance and to allow a higher level of security in a way that also those who have strayed from the path and committed an offence may return the crime against the community and not only be punished for their actions, but to be aware and properly raised, even if it is a very strong word, but in particular return to the community as its stakeholders capable of constructively, qualitatively co-forming it further. The model ahead of us, of course, requires certain systemic adjustments, especially human resources, because it would not be right for the experimental activity to be taken over by those who are already carrying out it, or those who, in their mission, here I think mainly about the centre of social work, already have many tasks to perform. It is therefore essential that the creation of this new service creates the possibility of additional employment, specialised staff, which will also have the will, knowledge and, above all, the ability to transfer some of this from the best world practice to our country. Since it is cheaper in the long term and a safer and more efficient model for the community to introduce and regulate sanctions, especially the return and integration of the community, we will support the Social Democrats' proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec will present the position of the United Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u114	Thank you, Vice President. The new rehearsal law has been widely shared throughout the debate, particularly as to the extent to which this new service should actually take over. In the United Left, we support the proposed regime, which focuses on the so-called alternative suspension of sentences, not on the tasks performed by institutions for the cessation of sentences. The law thus means at least one step in the right direction, in particular it should be a step away from the current system, i.e. from a system that is increasingly based on repression, control and after the introduction of life imprisonment also on so-called revenge or retribution for offences or offences committed. In such a system there is, of course, less room for social function, for prevention, for alternative forms of penalties, and this explains, I think, quite clearly also statistics. The number of prisoners is increasing, for example, in 2002 there were a thousand 147, and in 2015 this number has grown to a thousand 463. The lack of emphasis on alternative forms of punishment also shows that as many as 55% of those imprisoned have been sentenced to imprisonment for less than two years, i.e. for a relatively short period of time. The deprivation of liberty is so extreme, the last measure or should be and should only be applied when there is, in fact, no other option, when the perpetrator is, say, a danger to society and must be temporarily excluded from it. By no means should he become or become a rule. In this light, more must be done on prevention. We know that the greatest generator of problems in society is poverty, social exclusion and unemployment. If we eliminate these original sins, if we re-establish the social state, there will also be much less work with the expulsion and the prison system. Certainly, however, we do not want the system to go in the direction of what they have in the United States, where the probing service comes from. How wrong it can be the constant increase in repression, oppression, the creation of a vicious circle of return, is most clearly reflected in the United States of America. On the other hand, it is interesting that the best statistics have to do with both the crime rate and the return rate in the Scandinavian countries. So we have cases, i.e. countries where the prison sentence is previously an exception as a rule, i.e. the extreme measure I spoke about earlier, and these usually ordinarily take place in open departments. So, on the one hand, we have bad examples, on the other hand, very good examples that would apply to them. And the fact that these systems are more successful also proves statistics. The current direction, as we see in Slovenia, shows above all that we have chosen as an example this negative, that is, the American, that goes towards increasing repression, increasing control, restricting rights and also decommissioning the social state. In the United Left, we keep reminding ourselves that such policies are increasingly flawed and, of course, with such wrong policies, problems in all areas are also increasing. In the United Left, we see this proposal as a departure from the current system, from the system of punishment, or as a partial step in this direction. We also hope that this will be reflected in practice and that the Administration will not become just another bureaucrat mill in which convicts will eventually be lost. However, the proposal nevertheless has one very serious flaw that can only be addressed by the amendment tabled by our Group of Members. It proposes deleting the provision relating to the transfer of employees from social work centres to the newly established administration for implementation. This provision means that at a lower level, both social work centres and public servants, who will be newly employed by the law enforcement agency, will be affected. Social work centres, which still remain part of the tasks related to the enforcement of criminal sanctions, will not be able to replace lost workers with new workers, and public servants who will be newly employed in the administration will be in a worse position than they are now. For this reason, I propose that this provision be deleted, and we will also bind our support for the law to the adoption of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u116	Dear President, distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law as a body within the Ministry introduces a new law enforcement agency to take care of the implementation of the trial, including more in-depth treatment of perpetrators of crimes. The purpose of the trial is to implement the statutory penalties and measures being carried out in the community, aimed at resocialisation and reintegration of perpetrators and community security. Probation units will, in accordance with the proposal for a law, prepare a report to the State Prosecutor, which will serve as a basis for his decisions on the withdrawal of the complaint or on the motion for a settlement procedure and the preparation of an agreement, instructions and the setting of orders in the event of a stay of prosecution. The task of procrastination units should also be to monitor the performance of the perpetrator's obligations in the performance of the work in general favour, to eliminate or settle damage and to prepare a report on the tasks performed. Probational units will prepare reports for the courts on the basis of which they will take decisions on the choice of criminal sanctions or protective supervision and carry out work for the general benefit, house imprisonment and protective supervision. Counselors will draw up personal plans for each convict based on in-depth analyses of each individual. The objectives of the resocialisation and reintegration of offenders identified by the law are certainly to be heard as socially beneficial, but we note that the establishment of a law enforcement office will require the employment of 56 public servants. In only four years, the Office will require €8 million and then €2 million a year. In New Slovenia, we claim that our country needs to improve the business environment rather than establishing new bodies and hiring public servants. When we talk about tax cuts, the government does not show much courage, on the other hand, it is very motivated to hire public servants. The public debt owed to young people amounts to €32 billion and 80% of Slovenian GDP. While the four-member Slovenian family bears a strong over 60,000 public debt, it does not seem reasonable to establish new public offices to care for the in-depth treatment of perpetrators of crimes. In Nova Slovenija, we believe that the treatment and treatment of perpetrators of crimes is already properly regulated in our country. Nor do we need a new office, which employs 56 public servants, to pass an alternative penalty. The government coalition with such proposals points to the fact that its priorities are wrongly set. In the light of the proposal in New Slovenia, we will not support the Probation Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Dobovšek will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u118	All those who accompany this meeting are respected! We have before us the Probation Bill, which many do not know what they are dealing with. We could have one word in here or what we already had. We need to know that sometimes our prisons were a model for all of Europe, were pretty empty and carried out socialisation and integration, and we did not need such services at all. When prisons change into what Vatovec warned us to do in criminal and supervisory functions, then we need a transfer, like in the United States, also an appropriate model of the probation service. This would not be necessary if we had implemented a policy as it had been in the past. Comrade Petrovec has already pointed out that our society is going to a repressive modality and that, as such, it is increasingly having problems with crime. There are no jobs, social services are very bad, and that is why more and more people are choosing a criminal path. The open questions that the law leaves are, in principle, whether it is a supervisory service or a service that will provide support and assistance to those who have gone on a deviant path. What are they going to do in prison? Second question: What is the professional training, expertise, and who will these people who are going to do this job? What, then, is the work of social work centres? What will be the attitude toward prisons? I'm afraid there's going to be a privatisation of this activity. Of course, this major paradox is crucial, as has been mentioned many times before, that there will then be more security. I say the paradox is between security and control and control. I fear there will be more control and control with this job, which is not the purpose of such laws. Of course, implementation of this law is a problem. In the light of what has been said in the Group of Non-Aligned Members of this proposal, we cannot support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mrs Teja Ljubič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u120	Dear Members and Members of Parliament, Minister! It's all good-bye to everyone! So today, as we have already heard, we are considering the Probation Act. What does the word probation mean, and could the use of any other word be more appropriate? They can be defined as the execution of sentences in the community rather than the execution of sentences in prison. The main purpose of the trial is to keep the criminal in the environment in which he lives and works, but at the same time also fulfils the obligations imposed. The enforcement of sanctions and measures in the community of the perpetrator allows the offender not to break the existing social network, to avoid losing his job as a result of the sanctions and to maintain existing ties with the family or to maintain the responsibility of taking care of the company. The Slovenian language currently does not know the word which could adequately replace the term probation, the term which includes a comprehensive set of probing measures and includes a certain test period during which these measures are carried out. For the word probation is an internationally and professionally stable concept. It is used by so many countries, such as Hungary, Croatia, Norway and some others. But we must not forget something essential here. The language is alive and changing, and as long as the language is alive, it can be complemented constantly. The proposed law introduces a procrastination service in Slovenia to ensure that all state institutions dealing with perpetrators of crimes and offences are more closely connected and that convicts are treated more deeply. So far, all these activities have not been able to be carried out to the extent that they could. Since the experience of countries where they already know such services is extremely positive, we can only conclude that the introduction of such an institution in Slovenia is a step towards a safer society. Their practices show that this way of executing and treating offenders discourages individuals from repetitive offences or offences. This reduces the number of people who remain in prison and, as a result, reduces the costs of the execution of the sentence. Finally, it stresses the humane and effective treatment of perpetrators of crimes. The fact is that when it comes to the passing of shorter prison sentences, they do not generally have the desired effect, often only negative. In pennology, it became apparent that short-term prison sentences were more harmful than they were, so the desire to replace the sentence of deprivation of liberty with different penalties is increasingly being introduced, i.e. without deprivation of liberty. For all these reasons, Members and Members of the Modern Centre Party will support the proposal for a test law, as this represents a major step both towards a more humane and effective treatment of perpetrators of crimes or offences and a step towards a more secure society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u121	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article to the amendment tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of the review of 22 May. I am putting to the debate Article 51 and the amendment of the United Left Group. Who wants to discuss it? Please sign in, please. Dr. Matthew Tašnar Vatovec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u122	Thank you, Vice President. As I said in my position, otherwise we have no problem with this law. It seems to us that if, even then, the practice goes in this direction to prefer or try to work more on community service practices than on punishment, supervision and so on, it is said, this more repressive aspect, then the law, as proposed by the Ministry, is welcome and we hope that it will go in this direction. However, we were disturbed by one thing, which was also pointed out by the Community of Centres for Social Work by letter just before we had a meeting on the home working body and then on the committee itself, which pointed out that in some way one provision in Article 51 in the transitional provisions might be somewhat inappropriate. It is one thing that will happen when the law enters into force, simply one part of the employees at social work centres will automatically go to the newly established administration, which brings, at least as we understand this thing, two problems or two problems. The first is that, despite the fact that social work centres will still carry out certain tasks related to the enforcement of criminal sanctions, let's say working with minors, working with adults after the end of the sentence, and so on, people who are currently doing this work will be transferred to a new administration and will not be provided that these meetings are replaced, so that the social work centres can hire new people in these areas. Employees are being transferred, wage funds are being transferred, and social work centres will, in some ways, remain at least partially exploited, by still carrying out some of these tasks, and these experts will also have to do this work, so of course it is questionable how this will happen at all. The second problem that is more labour-intensive, to say the same, is that the solution proposed by the Ministry in this transitional decision is such that it is easy for current employees to stop working relationships and start new working relationships on the board on the day of entry into force, where they would be called the lowest title that is systematised for these official jobs without the possibility of moving forward with the progress they have made in their working life. This is, of course, controversial, even from the point of view of the Labour Relations Act and also from the point of view that, in fact, those people who are, through their practice and through their work at social work centres are actually the most qualified for this work, in some way deprived of such a very sharp cut in what this new service and this new administration will be. So we propose that this provision be deleted and that, of course, the ministry or the new administration simply, when it becomes operational when it is established, sign up for new jobs with a call for proposals so that people can apply to these jobs, including those who may now operate within the social work centres, and of course ensure that the people coming to these new jobs will know exactly under what conditions, what entry conditions, what inputs, if I say so, or what title, and what exactly the circumstances in which they will work, and that they will enable those who want to stay at the social work centres to do so, of course. We therefore propose that this should simply be deleted. We are trying to help both ministries and social work centres in some way, thus avoiding this inconceivable problem, which could arise as a result of such, in our view, an unthinkable solution. So to allow those who want to move to the administration to do so by applying for a public invitation to tender, those who do not want to remain. At the same time, social work centres would stay with the already narrow human resources pool, in such a structure as these, and could replace those who would leave in the event of departures. But in our view, the solution proposed by the Ministry is too sunny and too pervasive, as well as the organisation of work at social work centres and also as far as the rights of employees at the centres they have acquired so far are concerned. As I have already said, they have probably advanced in titles over the years and, of course, they have also reached a certain amount of personal income resulting from this. Now, if in some way they were so forced to move to another office, it would mean that their work, which they have invested in all these years, is somehow erased overnight. We propose that this amendment be accepted to avoid this problem that may arise. If this amendment is adopted, we have also announced that we will also support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u123	The Minister of Justice is in charge, Mag. Goran Klemenčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, I will define myself until the amendment and reply to some of the points raised in the original presentations. First, in the first part of the presentation of the SDS Group, which said that it would not break the law, it justified that it did not bring anything new, that it did not know exactly what was being said, and that all the proposals, comments or initiatives they had made were rejected. In our interest, we will say that the basic truth has to be said that there was no initiative or proposal on the committee except one, and that is a change of name. Since it was said by the honourable Member of Dr Gorenak that he had not studied the law himself, because he was therefore in charge of Mr Grims, who did not come to the committee, the proposal not to know what the probation was, as the chairman of the committee then said, was rejected here. I would like to say again that the SDS did not make any comments or proposals for amending the law, but was not aware of the concept of probation, which grieves me for a simple reason. For the first time in government and legislative material, the trial appeared in the first Janša government and later in the second Janša government, in the Resolution on the National Programme for the Suppression and Prevention of Crime. You will not believe who was the proponent of government material and then of state-level choir material – the Ministry of the Interior. Who was the minister? Dr. Gorenak. Only if you examine their document is the trial mentioned eleven times in this document called “Probation – the necessity to establish a trial service, what is a trial”. Signed under this document is Dr. Gorenak, adopted by the government of Janez Janša. I understand, but there are a lot of other terms and terms in there, and people forget or forget about it, though. Next thing. I can honestly admit it, because I do appreciate it, and I am surprised or disappointed at the performance of Dr. Dobovsk. I couldn't follow the professional red or its implementation if it existed. Why again? Not that I want to criticize anyone again. He's an expert in crime. The resolution on the prevention and suppression of crime was, in some ways, one of his professional Bibles while he was still a lecturer. That's why he knows what probation means. The questions about what the centres for social work will do and the closure, of course, if the question repeats, I can also explain this, but there is something that is truly professionally clear and completely clear. Some discussions were also about whether this would actually bring more security. See, the worst thing for society in terms of security and price is return, people who commit a crime and go back to their old ways. And the test is intended to reduce and manage these risks. And yes, we have decided to approach a trial that is a European, European probation system, not an American system of testing with enhanced supervision and some authorised officials. Now for a little while, about the amendment. This provision in the law between transitional provisions on the transfer of a certain number, opening up the possibility of transferring a certain number of employees in social work centres to the office of transfer, has not been considered. On the contrary, she was very thoughtful. Why is he going? Currently, as we have already said in the recitals, one good part of the tasks in this area are carried out by social work centres. In this area, the social work centres have 30 professional workers and 6 coordinators. Of these, 12 are actually doing work in the field of, let's say, rehearsals for half-time. Logically, these people, with all the other burdens they have of course, know the burdens of employees at social work centres, have also performed other tasks. About 70% of all these jobs are transferred today to the Office of Probation. Indeed, something smaller remains in connection with minors and convicts, but only about 30% of these tasks remain. Just because we are aware that social work centres are understaffed, and also because we have acquired European funds for employment in this area, we have said that we have talked in that we will not, of course, reach out to the entire workforce that is currently working in social work centres, but only 30%. And that's gonna be a deal. Now I've told you why we're also interfering with this pool – because there are experts there and it's only right that these experts develop, those who want to, in the new job. However, it must be made very clear: the law provides only the basis for such a transfer, the social work centres are not part of the government and it is not possible to transfer someone through a tripartite contract. That's the first thing. Therefore, this article has been proposed in conjunction with the IMF and the MJU. That's the first thing. The quota will have to be specifically agreed upon. The second thing that is absolutely not true is absolutely not that anyone will be moved against his will. A call will be made out, and those who want to sign it will. If selected, this provision will allow for a normal transfer. No one will be forced to do that. Of course, it makes sense for us to reach out to these people first, and we will offer them this opportunity because some in this area have certainly proved themselves. So the first thing is that there will be no automatic toleration, and there will be no coercion to bear. Last thing, since we were also warned that the provision could be read in a way that would only move to the lowest wage class at the beginning and so on, we re-checked it, and we sent it to all social work centres to explain that this is not the case. It is a matter of employment to another body and then, of course, you carry on progress and so on. No one, no one, no one will get any worse, but everyone will decide, at the final stage, if he wants to get into this new job. All we have done with this provision is to provide a legal basis for a smooth transition if individuals choose to make such a transition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u125	The debate, Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u126	Thank you. Can legal texts really be interpreted very differently or simply not understood? Article 51, as stated in the first paragraph, first paragraph: “Public servants who carry out the tasks referred to in Article 7, paragraph 3, 5, 6 and 8, and the task of developing a network of operators, work for the general benefit referred to in Article 28, paragraph 2, of this Law, the employment relationship shall cease one day before the application of this Act and shall be taken over from the date of application of this Act and, without publication or competition, work relations shall be concluded with the administration of posts laid down in the Systematisation Act and so on. [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, but the first paragraph is very clear. [[…]] It further states: "Public servants who will enter into a contract of employment for the official job shall be named by the date of the conclusion of the contract of employment as the lowest title in which the job is carried out." Here, of course, I understand, the second paragraph speaks of the conclusion of an agreement and of which public servants yes, no, but the first paragraph does not speak of an easy, simple basis, that no one will be forced to do so, but speaks of the fact that, if so expressed, these people will be relocated by decree. I mean, these two paragraphs are also in conflict then, because I think it's a very clear first paragraph. It speaks of the date on which the law enters into force, the working relationship is terminated and the following day a new one is concluded on the administration. That's how I get it. Of course, I will let myself be convinced otherwise if there is some rationality behind this, but the purpose of our amendment is simply to prevent such a shift or takeover, which would, of course, be contrary to the wishes, interests and also the benefits of those employed at the social work centre. We suggest that it is easy for the administration to make a call when it is established and, of course, is trying to get the best out of these people who are, I agree, experts in these areas and should be doing these jobs, but not at the expense of social work centres.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u127	Here you go, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Just for a little while. Look, one more time. The first paragraph provides the legal basis for this transfer when the law starts to apply, of course, next year with April. However, the second paragraph is a very clear reason why it must come to this agreement. [[…]] Believe that if you read this law, this article read as you read it, without the second paragraph, the Ministry of Labour and Family would, of course, rise up in the sense that you will take away everyone who is currently dealing with it. The point of paragraph 1 is that now we will not open up without a special invitation to tender, for example, for the transfer of a worker to a social work centre that is currently working, I do not know, on the breeding grounds, but that it is actually going. An internal call will be published, people will sign up, those who show interest will probably need a lot of negotiation between the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Labour, how many people, who people and so on. That's all. As it is said, this article has been the subject of quite a lot of work, talks and negotiations, and here, we will say, there are absolutely no evil intentions of de facto transposition. Believe that no new administration, not even in such a sensitive area, wants people who do not want to do so. At the same time, it must be avoided that someone else does not give us someone who has previously dealt with purely other matters and who has passed the invitation to tender, according to their own words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u129	Colleagues, colleagues, I ask if anyone else wants to discuss Article 51 and the amendment. I guess not. That's why I'm concluding. [[…]] Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u130	Minister, I am happy to take your word for it, but what you have said does not appear in this article or in the explanation of the law or the explanation of the articles. It's a matter of whether or not we believe you in the word or what is written in the law. Nevertheless, despite what you have added now, the second paragraph is that the ministry, administration and social work centres will conclude an agreement – but who will talk to employees at social work centres? Here, in this process, you leave out employees, and I think here, in this place, you should take into account their wishes in the first place and also their interest. And now to talk about nothing going wrong and everything being agreed on is whether we believe you in words or whether to write it properly into marriage. Because, I mean, it can be interpreted differently, but it can also be interpreted as I interpret this article. This interpretation is one that is less beneficial or less beneficial to employees at social work centres. Because of me, it would still be more reasonable to delete this provision, but to expect a more appropriate solution, donkeys with what you say now, so that in fact this division of who will go anywhere – of course with the consent of those who perform this service – will do according to what they want, their interest, and what is also the interests of the new administration, and, on the other hand, what are the interests of the centres for social work. Thus, from this equation between the Ministry, social work centres and this new administration fall out of those who will perform these services. That's our concern we're trying to draw attention to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u131	Anyone else want to discuss Article 51 and the amendment? I find that this time no one is, so I am concluding the debate. The amendment will be decided on Wednesday, 24. 5. In the context of the votes. This also interrupts this agenda item. We're moving on to 19. At the end of the day, this is a second-hand proposal for a law on amendments to the agricultural law. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mag. Tanja Strniša, State Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Here you go, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u132	Mr Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to briefly present the main changes introduced by the proposal to amend our basic agricultural law. We are changing the basic definition of an agricultural economy in such a way that, in accordance with European rules, as one of the forms of a farmer, we also recognise the association of natural or legal persons engaged in an agricultural activity, irrespective of the legal status conferred on such an association with national law. Amendments to the Law shall, in accordance with European legal bases, also carry out appropriate harmonisations, which are relevant for the implementation of the rural development programme measures 2014-2020, in order to establish an appropriate legal basis for the expert commissions, with a view to providing an expert, substantive opinion, in the examination of applications for calls for tender where measures where there is a need for expert review and substantive knowledge of the field are required. So do I. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u133	Excuse me, Madam Secretary of State. Colleagues and colleagues, please listen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u134	Thank you, Chairman. The amendment of the law also introduces a new form of public tender, a partially open invitation to tender combining an open and closed tendering system. By amending the law, we also provide a legal basis for obtaining and monitoring data on the state of climate change in agriculture and reporting to the competent authorities. An important substantive change concerns the protection of consumers against fraudulent food practices and the protection of consumers from misleading through food labelling and advertising. Here, the jurisdiction between the competent inspection services is better and clearer, and, especially important, in the case of misleading food labelling, the inspector may issue an oral decision to the seller on the immediate withdrawal of the products from the sale, since the issue of a written decision in practice has often had no effect, and due to the ease of service of the decisions in the event of infringements, when advertising or marketing agricultural products by a natural or legal person who does not have a residence or establishment in Slovenia, he must designate the responsible person — the authorised or authorised person resident in or established in the Republic of Slovenia — otherwise, the service shall be carried out with a public notice in accordance with the law governing the general administrative procedure and thus make it easier and the inspection procedure will be made more effective. The law also prescribes a new national quality scheme stating that the specific characteristics of agricultural crops and foodstuffs relate, inter alia, to the origin of the basic raw material. In order to make it clear what is meant by the term origin of the basic raw material for the purposes of this scheme, a text was added explaining that the specification should clearly specify where such production or processing takes place. At the same time, the Act amending Article 70 clearly provides that where specifications in addition to production and processing procedures also contain requirements for storage, cooling, marketing, both producers, processors and other actors subject to the specification shall be certified. A very important change concerns food donation. The new legislation regulates food donation to prevent large-scale food losses, thus also following the objectives of the circular economy and the reduction of waste and, in particular, assistance to socially disadvantaged people. It provides that donors who are primary producers, processing industry, trade, catering establishments and intermediaries, humanitarian organisations, social institutions and, in particular, after the adoption of the amendment, also disabled organisations must meet the conditions of food business operators and be registered in the register of establishments. Only food that meets all the prescribed food safety requirements may be donated. With the amendment, it is particularly possible for beneficiaries who are socially at risk that food is also donated to persons with disabilities as a group that is particularly exposed to social threats. It is important that we regulate this in our law, because it will be a step towards the release of value added tax under the financial rules under these conditions. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u135	Thank you, too. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Tomaž Lisc.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u136	Vice President, thank you for your word. Dear Secretary of State with a team, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food considered the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Agricultural Act as a working body at its 19th regular meeting on 4 May this year. The Committee first took note of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which made a number of comments on the proposed provisions. In the discussion, the representative of the service explained that most of their comments were taken into account by the amendments tabled by the coalition groups and additional explanations were provided in respect of some of the comments that were appropriate. In particular, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service highlighted the legal and system-wide concerns raised by the Service in relation to the proposed solutions relating to public service providers in the field of agriculture. Following the resolution of the proposed amendment to Article 115 of the Public Service Act in the field of agriculture, public institutions whose founders are the Republic of Slovenia, the Agricultural and Economic Chamber of Slovenia or the municipality may also implement or grant concessions in accordance with the law governing economic and public services. With regard to such a solution, the Legislative and Legal Service points out that it deviates significantly from the system-wide regulation of economic public services, while the reasons behind such regulation are not explained in the explanation. In doing so, the Legislative and Legal Service has also stressed that public institutions are set up specifically to carry out the public service and that the entire legal framework on the regulation of public institutions is adapted, while the purpose and role of the Chamber as a compulsory association and thus a representative representative in the field of agriculture and forestry is different, as it is primarily intended to represent the interests of its members. In this regard, the SSC also stressed that any such derogation from the system regime must be approached with exceptional and reasonableness, since, on the basis of the creation, the predictability and coherence of the legal system should be taken into account. The Committee also took note of the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which nevertheless supports the proposal. With regard to certain issues that have not been addressed in the preparation of the novel, the Commission expects them to be adequately addressed in the next amendment to the law. In the debate, she also presented her position to the Slovenian Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber, which supports the bill and particularly welcomes the solution to regulate the status of the public agricultural advisory service after many years. In the opinion of the Chamber, however, some issues remained to be addressed in the next amendment of the law; for example, a broader relation should be taken into account, which would be the basis for membership in the farm or for entry into the register of agricultural holdings. Furthermore, the whole chapter on temporary and occasional work in agriculture fell out. The Chamber is also reserved for a solution that allows only a double extension of the time limit for the implementation of the investment. The Committee also took note of the proposal of the Association of Sugar beet growers of Slovenia, the Cooperative Kristal z o.o. o. Ormož and the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber of Slovenia for amendments to the Committee, which would also recognise the status of producer to the sugar beet sector. The Committee has not identified that proposal for amendments to the Committee until that date. A representative of the National Council of Disabled Organizations of Slovenia also participated in the debate. On their proposal, an amendment was put in place and adopted, which will allow intermediaries to distribute donated food in addition to humanitarian organisations. After the discussion, the Committee adopted some of its amendments and adopted amendments to the coalition parliamentary groups, but did not adopt the amendments of the United Left Group by Articles 9 and 23. The Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u137	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Primož Hainz is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u138	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Hello, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to introduce you to the position on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agriculture of the Desus Group. The proposal for the amendment of the Agricultural Law introduces several important changes to our legislation, which are, of course, consistent with European rules. One of the most important content is the mitigation and adaptation of climate change as the Ministry, with a new regulation for this purpose, the accounting of emissions and the collection of greenhouse gases in agriculture, can ensure data collection and processing. However, in our parliamentary group, we are most pleased with the progress we will make with this law in the area of food donation. The law regulates the legal basis for food donation, the possibility of VAT facilitation for donors and the co-financing of the purchase of technical equipment. The introduction of the possibility of donating food will reduce the loss of food, which has ended in waste, according to our assessment. It is logical that donors and food intermediaries will have to meet the conditions of food business operators, that is to say, entry and entry into the register of establishments, and food will have to meet all the prescribed food safety requirements. The fact is, in our country, despite poverty, we throw away a lot of food, mostly in schools, nursing homes and the like, in institutions, as well as in shops and bakeryes, they throw away extremely much unsold fresh food, fresh fruit, bakery products and so on. We are therefore pleased that this option will solve two problems; we will help those who need help while at the same time preventing huge losses along the entire food and food chain. I would also like to draw attention to the important change made by the proposal, namely the new instruments relating to consumer protection and the prohibition of misleading in the case of advertising and sales via websites. So far, the inspectorate has been powerless when the seller has had a registered office abroad, and now they will have to have a seat in the Republic of Slovenia and will have to have a special officer or responsible person who will be able to receive any sanctions and alert the inspectors. The proposal also establishes grassroots communities, bringing about two important simplifications that shepherds face. Where the first stage of milk processing is carried out within the framework of a pasture community, this is considered to be a basic agricultural activity, meaning that such activities do not need to be organised in a form other than espionage or part or supplementary activity. The income will be taken into account in the context of the cadastral income of these lands, so that also from a tax point of view it constitutes a relief and simplification, while at the same time allowing the work of shepherds in the pasture community to be carried out as a personal complementary work. According to the assessment of the Desus Group, the proposal for the amendment of the Agriculture Act brings a number of good solutions, so we will unanimously support the proposal. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u139	Mr Miha Kordish will present the position of the Joint Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u140	Thank you for your word, chairman. The broader and more effective powers of inspectors to sanction misleading advertising in relation to the processing of agricultural products, the establishment of a legal basis for food donation and the expansion of the range of potential public service providers in agriculture, are just one of the most important content of the amendment to the Agriculture Act that we are considering today and which we will support in the United Left. A report by the Food Safety Inspectorate on enhanced control of the labelling of fruit and vegetables on stands and markets was published last November. Above all, the stand near markets, shopping centres and roads has been looked at, and there have been worrying findings. Traders sold fruit and vegetables as produced in Slovenia, but were actually bought and imported from trade fairs in Italy. The inspectors then drew attention to the manna of the power to issue an oral decision on the minutes for the immediate prohibition of the carriage of food to a person directly indicating, advertising or placing on the market an agricultural crop or food not labelled in accordance with the rules or whether it is advertised or marketed in contravention of the rules. In short, for those of you who cheat so that you can step on their fingers, that was not possible, with this law it becomes possible. There is also the possibility that agricultural crops that are advertised in such dishonest, misleading ways, not to say, are taken away in an easy way. In the United Left, of course, we welcome this and hope that the broader powers of inspectors will indeed allow for the restriction of misleading advertising and related fraudulent practices. The most important gain brought by today’s novel is the legal basis for the donation of food. All too much food is thrown away, although it is good and this is the absurdity of the society in which we live, the absurdity of capitalism. On the one hand, food throws aside, good food, good food; on the other hand, we have a host of people who have nothing to eat. The present law would facilitate the distribution of food to those most in need. The country has in its hands scissors and linen in fact to lead policies that eliminate poverty and hunger and that the distribution of donated food would not even be necessary. I think, until we reach these policies with this government or once in the future, we need to take different measures and donate food, for example, is one such measure that can cover the most problematic holes. But on the other hand, if we wanted to move into a sustainable economy, to produce as many things as we consume them, in this way production itself would also be cheaper, resulting in food becoming more accessible to a wider range of people, and thus better quality food. And that, without even dealing with the shamelessly high margins that some within the food chain are charging. In short, the situation is as it is, the situation is bad, but the current addition to the Agriculture Act, which speaks of food donation, is welcome. But there are also possible improvements here, and in the United Left we are firmly in the position that if the state does not carry out its basic social tasks and this outsources to NGOs, to government organisations, it can go through at least enough faces to provide them with adequate funding. Here we have tabled an amendment to the article 23 law, which seeks to extend the possibilities of co-financing the distribution of food available to the State. If I finally touch the cold, which has caused millions of damage to Slovenian agriculture in the second year in a row. It should be clear to all of us by now that climate change is no longer just a theoretical concept that we can discuss indefinitely, but is a reality. A reality that appears to us as well. It's a cold reality. The drought predicted for the summer is this reality. These are both direct consequences of climate change. The Ministry has already set up a working group to prepare a plan for adapting agricultural policy to climate change, and I hope that we will soon adopt a new Agriculture Act, which will also include such adaptations. While the current chapter contains a chapter on adaptation to climate change, it is true that there is no spirit or hearing about concrete receptions, that agriculture must be actively and expeditiously adapted instead of adopting intervention laws that address the consequences of climate change every year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u141	At Mr. Kordish's invitation, I let Mr. Webber go. I apologize for that mistake. Mr Weber, I invite you to present your position on behalf of the SD Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u142	Thank you for your word and, of course, a nice greeting on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Agriculture Act provides for substantial amendments and additions to the Agriculture Act and, somehow, we can place the proper definition of the agricultural economy among the most important ones. Indeed, the law clearly defines that a legal person, a natural person, a pasture or an agrarian community may be a carrier of only one agricultural holding. The law also regulates the establishment of grass-roots communities established by a contract between interested parties and registered on the administrative unit and entered into the register of grass-roots communities. All that then happens is, of course, largely related to this status and that certain subsidies may also be granted to agricultural holdings, it is specified in this law that an expert committee may also be set up to identify or review eligibility for the adoption of subsidies, as well as to establish a commission to assess the appropriateness of the protection of agricultural crops and foodstuffs. Furthermore, the law also requires beneficiaries of the Rural Development Programme to inform the public in their activities or in matters supported by the funds of this programme. This is certainly important information because it is, however, a rural development programme, which is last but not least one of the key programmes that responds to the diversity of Slovenia compared to other countries, because rural areas in Slovenia are significantly more populated than in other European countries, and it is right for people to know what is financed by this programme. The law is a new or somewhat complementary field of information to the public or promotion, for so far the Law on the Promotion of Agricultural and Food Products has regulated this area in a way that has attracted the participation of both operators or food producers, as of course all others involved in this chain, and somehow the Ministry has contributed 50 % of the funds in relation to the contributions of the food chain. This law provides that the promotion is financed from the budget, which will certainly be adopted with great approval by all factors in the food processing industry. Of course, consumer protection is also very important, especially since we have been facing an increasing trend in online procurement and shopping in recent times, and it is right to try to regulate this area as well and to avoid misleading content in some publications, which you can only find when such goods or products are delivered to you. It is, of course, too late at that time, and in any case it must also be sanctioned. With regard to food donation, it is clear from the law that food donors are legal or natural persons engaged in either production, processing, distribution or sale of food. Donated food intermediaries are humanitarian organisations, but both donors and intermediaries must meet the basic conditions required for food business operators, as well as lay down rules within the European Union. This also tries to avoid potential health or safety risks when donating food. One of the key issues covered by the Agriculture Act is the area of public services. It is envisaged that the primary public service providers in the field of agriculture are public institutions set up by the Republic of Slovenia, the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber or the municipality, and we are characterised by the fact that we have agricultural and agricultural institutions organised within the Agricultural and Economic Chamber and it is right to try to maintain the way this public service is carried out, as it has proved appropriate in the present practice. We will support the law in the parliamentary group because of all these solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u143	Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u144	Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State, co-workers and colleagues! The proposed amendment of the Agricultural Law introduces some good solutions, which we in Novi Slovenija have pointed out are non-life for Slovenian agriculture. It is good and right that the applicant has taken some comments from the professional public and NGOs. In Novi Slovenija, we constantly point out the inadequate management of mountains and mountain pastures and agrarian communities. This is supposed to be regulated by the current bill — is it true? In the definition of the agricultural holding, the agricultural holding, the common pastures and the agricultural holding — the mountains are replaced by an agrarian and grazing community, which are also added to the definition of the holding of the agricultural holding and the grassland communities as types of associations are defined in more detail in the new Article. The first phase of milk processing on or to the common pasture will be taken into account as a basic agricultural activity after this change, but the problem is not definitively solved. If a shepherd offers a spoon or a steak with honey in addition to sour milk, he will serve it, this is already a complementary activity for the Ministry. The real solution is the introduction of a special administrative procedure. If there is any suspicion of irregularities in one application for a public tender, the remaining applications will not wait for the procedure for clarifying this suspicion to be completed and the Agency will decide on the remaining applications in advance. The role in which the suspicion of irregularities arose will be dealt with separately. In the absence and irregularity of the funds granted to the applicant whose role has been suspected of irregularities, the funds will be considered to be used on this call for proposals. We hope that this novelty will accelerate the resolution of applications and reduce administrative obstacles. A specific tax treatment of donated food that will meet the conditions means that under certain conditions a tax adjustment of the tax base will be granted to taxable persons, so that the value of such donated food is zero. Many craftsmen, entrepreneurs and NGOs have long been alerted to the need for such arrangements. When distributing donated food, intermediaries are allowed to co-finance the purchase of technical equipment, while in Nova Slovenije we warn that all organisations that are qualified to do so should be included among food donors. The law also has some shortcomings. The Chamber of Agriculture and Economy of Slovenia pointed out a significant weakness. The whole chapter on temporary and occasional work in agriculture, which has been coordinated for a long time and has been looking for suitable solutions, has fallen out. These are essential and necessary in agriculture, and however, it would also suggest that this area should be further regulated. A man who is still carrying on an agricultural activity must not help his wife, the holder of another agricultural activity. This is not good, and we ask the agricultural ministry on behalf of farmers to settle these matters as soon as possible and make them life-forms and, above all, normal ones. In Novi Slovenija we know what Slovenian farmers need: as few regulations as possible with administrative burdens and bureaucratic obstacles, the wide possibility of flat-rate taxation, the abolition of tax receipts and the greater validity of the farmer's work. The proposed novel may be the first step in this direction, so we will not oppose it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u145	Mr Laj will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Mr. Lye, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u146	Dear Prime Minister, distinguished representatives of the Ministry, dear colleague and colleagues! The law is important for the implementation of agricultural policy measures, as well as for the administrative improvement of the business environment and the strengthening of the institutional environment in which agriculture operates. Allow me to point out some of the most important changes of the law. The provisions on the database are being amended and, according to the new legislation, only one agricultural holding, so-called MID, can have an agricultural holding. What does that accomplish? This will help to increase traceability and prevent the artificial creation of conditions for obtaining financial support from agricultural policy measures. Legal basis for public information on agricultural policy and agricultural products is also established The Novela envisages funding for agricultural promotion only from the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture. This will make the funding more transparent and also more traceable, making it easier to control. A legal basis is also laid for the effective prosecution of offenders in the area of fraud, of course in the field of safe food. This is mainly about online sale of agricultural products. We will also get a legal basis for the implementation of the financial instrument, which grants refunds under the Rural Development Programme. I would like to draw attention here to the fact that it was not previously possible to recover, but only grants. This is why it is of paramount importance that this area be regulated as it is envisaged in the proposal of the law. The very large acquisition of this law is, of course, a permanent arrangement for public services in the field of agriculture. Here, of course, I am referring mainly to the Agricultural Advisory Service, which plays an extremely important role in the functioning of the agricultural economies themselves and in enhancing competitiveness, both in the transfer of knowledge and technology and in the assistance, in the preparation of tenders and so on. It is also very important to increase the Ministry's powers over the functioning of these public services and the use of public funds. The area of food donation and food certification is also being regulated, which is also an extremely large acquisition. A very important chapter is also the collection that defines or regulates the collection and processing of data due to the consequences of climate change. This can be very useful in creating or creating measures that will help to manage the negative effects of climate change. In the Group of Non-Related Members, we are aware of the importance of this law, which is why we will also support it and therefore think that we will also contribute to ensuring the highest possible level of self-sustainment and safe food that will be available to all of us on the Slovenian market. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u147	The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mr Simon Zajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u148	Your Honor! Today we are discussing the second major amendment of the original law of 2008 – the first was 2014 – which changes a significant number of articles. While some of these changes are of a technical nature, others contain alignment with EU legislation and most are of a substantive nature, and in our view they will make an important contribution to the more effective implementation of agricultural policy measures. Since I am presenting my position more in the end, I will not repeat all the solutions to the law on my own, but I would point out the broad consensus that the proposed solutions have received. The new law is supported by both the State Council and the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber of Slovenia and other relevant agricultural stakeholders. As far as free distribution of donated food is concerned, we would first like to point out that around one third of food is lost or lost at global level. The UN estimates that the related economic and environmental costs amount to approximately US$ 700 billion annually. The European Commission points out, however, that approximately 88 million tonnes of food are spent in the EU each year. The total amount of food lost by 2020 is estimated to increase to approximately 126 million tonnes unless preventive measures are taken. Therefore, the proposed solutions support the efforts of all stakeholders to reduce food loss, which will contribute to the achievement of the sustainable development objective, namely to halve the quantity of food waste per capita generated at retail and consumer level and to reduce food losses along the production and supply chain. It should be borne in mind that the basic purpose of the part of the law governing food donation is, in the first place, to comply with the purpose of the system of ensuring safe food even in the case of food donation or distribution. Therefore, only food that meets all the prescribed food safety requirements may be donated. Therefore, the law will allow co-financing of the procurement of refrigerators and heat-maintaining devices. The funds will be allocated to the regional centres where this food will be collected. The Ministry will therefore only contribute to the purchase of equipment required for food safety. Otherwise, it is worth noting that with the amendment at the parent’s meeting, we have extended the range of possible intermediaries or beneficiaries of donated food. We have included in the law all organisations that alleviate social hardships and provide assistance, in addition to humanitarian organisations with disabilities, which are trying to reduce the negative consequences of disability, resulting in a poor social situation. In view of the above, we expect the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, as the competent department after the adoption of this law, to take appropriate action and, within the framework of its programmes and measures planned in the field of social policy, to provide funds for the co-financing of the remaining costs incurred in the free distribution of food. Otherwise, there are similar good solutions, as mentioned in relation to the free distribution of donated food, even more and it is difficult to include them in this presentation of the position. Let me quickly mention, for example, that the law prescribes a new national quality scheme The chosen quality improves public awareness of agricultural policy, namely the specific characteristics of agricultural crops or foodstuffs, quality schemes for agricultural crops or foodstuffs, food safety and quality, food supply chain, association of producers, complementary activities on farms, which will contribute to increasing the visibility and competitiveness of Slovenian agriculture. We could also mention improvements in consumer protection, namely measures to provide non-derogable food information to consumers and beyond. We will support the SMC Group on the basis of that proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u149	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 5. 2017. I am putting to the debate Article 9 and the amendment of the Joint Left Group. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 23 and the amendment of the Joint Left Group. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided on Wednesday, 24. 5. In the context of the votes. This also interrupts this agenda item. We're moving to 2. On behalf of the European Parliament and of the Council, the European Parliament and the Council are invited to take action on the implementation of the provisions of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. With regard to this point, two draft laws were introduced into the legislative procedure, namely the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Balance of Public Finances (i.e. the ZUJF), the first reading, EPA 1785-VII, submitted by the MEP mag. Alenka Bratušek, and Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017 and 2018, urgent procedure, EPA 1890-VII, of which the Government is proposing. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy decided in its debate on those draft laws to deal with them in accordance with the third paragraph of Article 117 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. At the same time, he decided that the follow-up procedure in accordance with Article 127 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly would be guided by a proposal for a law submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following an urgent procedure. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 117 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I give the floor to the applicants of both proposals for supplementary explanations. First, I give the floor to Mrs Alenka Bratušek and then we will proceed with the debate. Here you go, mag. Alenka Bratusek, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! We have before us the Law on the Implementation of the Budget, which is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and you are probably wondering why I am standing here as a candidate. Last December, we proposed for the first time that all Slovenian pensioners would receive a regression, as stipulated by the basic ZPIZ law. That means two heights of the regression. Sadly, at the time, two parties were against it; SMC and Desus, so to our great sorrow, the law was rejected. But we didn't surrender, and on February 24th, we re tabled the same law. Again with the solution that all pensioners will receive regress without austerity measures already in 2017, as provided for by the basic PPIZ law. During this interim period, the government has prepared an amendment to the Budget Implementation Act, and so the so-called hybrid has emerged, and that is why I am here today with the Government as a proponent. The fact is that measures were needed during the crisis and pensioners were the group that contributed the most to the resolution of the crisis. It is therefore right that the pensioners' rights should cease to be bartered and given what is theirs; this is the annual coordination of pensions and regresses at two levels. In the bill before you, the government has indeed proposed that all pensioners be regressed this year, but at five different heights. Instead of two, he's still in five. You say that the crisis is over and indeed, Slovenia has recorded economic growth for the fourth year in a row. Fourth year in a row, we have economic growth, and pensioners still have to solve the crisis, and crisis measures are still in place. Isn't that a little illogical? I will also show you with numbers that our proposal is fully acceptable and feasible. It is €21 million; €21 million must continue to contribute to the resolution of the crisis, which is no longer what you say. Since you ask me many times why I did not resolve this question in 2013 and 2014, I also offer you an answer to this – there was no income at the time, and for the state budget we provided 300 million euros more for pensions than the government of Mira Cerar in 2017. Why? So that pensions do not fall, just as they do in Greece. Even though it was difficult, we were aware that the pension was a poor right and we must do everything we can to keep it from falling. In 2014, we collected 6.5 billion in the state budget. In 2017, you have 7.4 billion – 20 percent more; one fifth more tax revenue than in 2014. For pensions, we gave the state budget in 2014 a billion 650, and in 2017, the government of Mira Cerar, this coalition, that 16 percent less, 300 million less, which means a billion 370. That's a fact. This can be verified, I wanted to show you this, but unfortunately, technical problems didn't make it possible. But the numbers are certainly verifiable. And that is why, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, you can believe that fiscally sustainable and fully feasible, that we are already paying the regress to the full this year. You have found for public servants, doctors, 200 million for SDH, 50 million for DUTB – bad bank – and you must also find 21 million for pensioners. I am pleased that there is a proposal before us and that the Government and the coalition have heard the voice of the pensioners and will receive the regression of all pensioners, but it is not right that not in full height. 21 million, as much as we need to pay the full regression, will certainly not interfere with public finances. You can believe this, so once again the call not to postpone this to the election year 2018, but this year we will arrange what should be done.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u151	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the chairman of the Committee, Mrs Maria I apologize, Urški Ban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u152	Thank you so much for saying that. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is held at its 37th session. 5. On the basis of the third paragraph, in conjunction with the first and second paragraphs of Article 117 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, two draft laws were considered under the same point. In particular, the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017 and 2018, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration following an urgent procedure by the National Assembly, and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Balance of Public Finance, proposed by Mr Alenka Bratušek to the Assembly. In addition to the proposals of both laws, the Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service on both proposals of law, the position of the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, the opinion of the Association of Municipal municipalities of Ljubljana, the opinion of the Association of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Economic Affairs, Crafts, Tourism and Finance, and the Proposal for a Law on the Balance of Public Finance with the opinion of the Government and the letter of citizens to support this bill. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, amendments to the Budget Implementation Act have been tabled. To Article 6, the amendment was tabled by Member Alenka Bratušek, to Articles 1, 4, 6, 7 and 9 of the Coalition's Group of Members and to Article 5 of the SDS Group of Members. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Committee first decided and adopted a decision to consider both proposals for legislation under the same agenda item at a meeting of the Committee under the provisions of the Rules of Procedure on the urgent procedure for the adoption of legislation. In the introductory supplementary explanation of the Proposal for a Law on the Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Balance of Public Finances, the proponent Alenka Bratušek presented the objectives of the draft law, which means the suspension of the restriction on the coordination of pensions and allow the full payment of the annual allowance, in accordance with the provisions of the ZPIZ-2. It noted that pensioners have also contributed to the crisis and that it is now time for payments to return to the pre-crisis level. That this is possible is also evident from economic growth in recent years. At the same time, it showed some economic indicators and statistics on pension funds. In its initial supplementary explanation, the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017 and 2018 presented the objectives and solutions of the proposal of the Ministry of Finance regarding the regulation of certain business events, earmarked funds, the exercise of its own activities, the possibility of reallocation of funds, the increased averages for municipalities and the regulation of financial instruments. In addition, it presented an amendment to the annual pensioner allowance, which is being raised. The Committee further adopted, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a decision to draw up a supplementary proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2017 and 2018 submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government and not to include any of the articles in the Act on the Balance of Public Finance submitted to the National Assembly. Alenka Bratusek. The Committee held a second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017 and 2018. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service presented the written opinion of the Office and said that some inconsistencies were being eliminated with the amendments and pointed out that some of the general comments in the introduction were not being corrected. In particular, it drew attention to Article 6, paragraph 6, as regards the content governing financial instruments. In the opinion of the Office, this content would fall under the Public Finance Act. The representative of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance presented a written opinion and said that the Commission did not support the proposal. In the debate, some members of the Committee supported the opinion of the Commission of the State Council because they believe that the municipalities have many new tasks and that the costs of carrying out these tasks exceed the appropriate consumption. They also felt that all municipalities had no equal problems and that by raising the average, they should at least cover the costs of raising the salaries of public servants. The debate also referred to the European Charter on Local Self-Government and raised the issue of earmarked resources, the size of the average, debt and payment deadlines. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance provided additional explanations and answered questions. The Committee adopted the coalition amendments but did not accept the amendment of Ambassador Alenka Bratušek and the amendment of the SDS Group. Finally, he voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. On the basis of the decisions taken, the Committee also concluded the legislative procedure for the Public Finance Balance Act and adopted, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, the conclusion that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Balance of Public Finance submitted to the National Assembly was mag. Alenka Bratušek, not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u153	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u154	Thank you for saying so, again on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. The Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2017 and 2018 is currently being discussed together with the Act on the Balance of Public Finances, which was amended by Ambassador Alenka Bratušek, and in accordance with the decision of the Committee, we are actually having a joint debate. With regard to the content of the law, it would focus on transparency and control over the prudentity of spending public funds relating to provisions on the provision for the publication and presentation of business events, in particular those relating to the transfer of unused funds in the coming years. It is important for budgetary users to ensure that the management of market activities is properly included in the costs of work, which until the recent budgetary users did not normally fully include among them, and have therefore been seen as public sector costs. In this way, it is ensured that, while the budgetary users may transfer unused funds derived from market activity, they must also ensure that it also shows the costs incurred on the right side of the balance sheet. The law also responds to the fact that costs have increased in the functioning of local self-government, it is an increase in the higher costs that municipalities have for the gradual abolition of the salaries of public officials, and the law raises the average for municipalities by 3.5 euros. This should ensure that higher costs are met as a result of the above-mentioned removals of restrictions on the salaries of public servants. With regard to the area of annual allowances, it can also be pointed out that the provisions on redistribution of pension and health allowance funds are laid down in the law, since the fiscal rule does not allow for liability to cover their possible deficits. However, it is important that, in the area of annual pensions allowances, we solve the problem in a way that allows for payment at multiple levels according to their pension. On this occasion, we would like to recall that, of course, we supported a solution at the meeting of the parent working body, which is also in line with the Systemic Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which speaks of the need to determine the amount of the annual allowance in two amounts. A solution that has unfortunately not been adopted by the Committee on Finance would, of course, be more favourable to pensioners and, in particular, consistent with the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. Of course, we are also pleased that the annual allowance can be paid at a higher rate according to their pension. As it is said, however, it will not be as kind a solution as it would be in two payment classes. We would also like to point out in particular the fact that there is no need or that there is still a need to think today about payments within 2017-2018 in pensions, but we must not ignore that we have very serious calculations, that there will be no pension funds in the future, we are talking about young people, so the so-called demographic fund will have to be implemented as soon as possible, or if you want an intergenerational fund that will also provide a certain important source of pension funds in the future for those who are entering the labour market today and will rightly expect pension payments in 2035. The appeal that this demographic fund be formed as soon as possible, of course, in a way that preserves the property that we still own and that it is not sold out needlessly and cheaply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u155	Mr Miha Kordish will present the position of the Joint Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u156	Thank you for your word, chairman. As regards the implementation of the budget, it should be noted in the introduction that on 11 May the Government approved 24.3 million euros for the purchase of Patri shells past the National Assembly. The decision is totally unacceptable! These funds would be in bloody need in other areas, after all, in other areas within the Slovenian Army itself. For example, according to available data, saving on training is more than half of helicopter pilots are immediately inoperable. If this continues, there will be substantially reduced patient transport and mountain rescue in the summer. And these are precisely the areas for which intervention investment is envisaged and intended for them, not to continue past purchases. I would like to point out that the Government, through such measures, ignores the rules on the implementation of the budget which it has adopted. The National Assembly adopts a budget in which there are even less than a thousand euros on individual items. For each property in the public sector that is sold, the National Assembly must adopt a special decision. Well, this is where the government goes past the National Assembly and approves 24 million euros for the purchase of new patriots, even though at the time of the adoption of the budget, the Council argued that any additional cent would violate the fiscal rule. The second current budget implementation problem is the second track project. It would certainly have been better if the funds involved in the second track referendum had spent on the construction of the second track alone, but the government called directly with its enforcement policy after the referendum had taken place. It insists on the participation of foreign capital, although it knows that this scenario is the most expensive of all scenarios to build a second track. Long-term. Before the elections, all coalition parties, even the liberal centralist SMC, promised not to privatise strategic infrastructure. Well, now they've adopted a law that assumes that the second track will be owned by a foreign country, probably Hungary. Above all, this law does not provide any democratic control over the project. Since we are discussing the implementation of the 2018 budget, I would like to point out only that on Thursday, he acknowledged that "the project can be implemented without Hungarian cooperation". Slovenia has at least three years to provide the second track with the missing EUR 200 million. This is an average of €67 million per year; no serious money from the point of view of the state budget. Among other things, €67 million is lower than the budget will be lost annually as a result of a change in the income scale in favour of 10 per cent of the best wages accepted by this current Cerar government. For citizens, it would certainly be much better for the state to retain these funds and invest them in development. Finally, I have to stop at the annual pension allowance. The government's proposal for a supplement this year is, in its own right, more equitable than the formula in the pension law. Pensioners with the lowest pensions receive slightly more allowances than they would receive under the so-called pension law, which is due to the fact that there are only two classes in the pension law, while the supplement in this proposal is awarded on the basis of a five-grade scale. In the United Left, we expect the Ministry to propose the adoption of a fairer scale in the roof law itself. There is no doubt, however, that the additions to pensions are far too low to alleviate poverty among pensioners at all. It is better than a valid law, so we will not oppose this proposal, just please don't throw sand in our eyes. Poverty is higher in Slovenian society from day to day despite economic growth and pensioners are particularly at risk. To remedy such a situation, more ambitious social movements will have to be made.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u157	Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. He will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u158	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Proposal for a new Law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2017 and 2018 shall, at a minimum or for a nuance, amend the amount of the average for municipalities or citizens. As agreements have been concluded with the social partners following the budget transmission, which represent a greater amount of resources for the costs of public servants, the average from €530 is increasing to €533 and a half, i.e. by €3 and a half. The principle of subsidiarity is one of the basic principles of Christian democracy. In Novi Slovenije we advocate the possibility that at lower and more basic levels of society everything that can best be regulated there is regulated. Local communities are best aware of their problems and needs, so we must also allow them and allow them to regulate their affairs as much as possible. Last but not least, the European Charter of Local Self-Government is talking about this. Regrettably, the coalition does not follow the Christian democratic principle of subsidiarity in its entirety by means of a way of financing the local communities, which is also laid down in this law. Our countryside is old and empty. In Novi Slovenija we do not agree to the aspirations of over-centralisation and destruction of the Slovenian countryside. The country of Slovenia will be as strong as its periphery will be developed. The government coalition has recently been able to increase budget expenditure for various purposes beyond the National Assembly by several hundred million euros, from the failure of various unions to recapitalisation of the Bank and SDH Claims Management Company, and in addition to the business environment, local self-government is one of the areas neglected by the existing government coalition. While the bill increases the average by three and a half euros, Christian Democrats note that in the Republic of Slovenia we have the Law on Community Financing and that we have a clearly defined methodology for calculating the average. Unfortunately, however, the Government has decided not to establish these standards in practice and will allow the financial sub-nutrition of the municipalities to continue. The government is also reviving the Court of Auditors' opinion, which says that there is nothing to negotiate about the average government, that we have legislation here and that we have a methodology here and that this needs to be respected. Well, no. The bill also slightly changes the regulation of the annual pensioner allowance, which in principle increases by 10 euros. While this increase will improve the situation of pensioners for a little while, this represents only a drop into the sea for our pension system and does not bring any necessary systemic changes. If we are to secure decent pensions in the long run, I need to change the pension system today. We are also reminded of this by the institutions of the European Union. Slovenian society is the fastest in the European Union, and in the medium and long term it represents a major fiscal problem, a major fiscal risk. That is why in Novi Slovenija we have already presented a proposal to modernise the pension system by introducing a three-pillar pension system, which is based on the flow pillar, the investment pillar and the voluntary pillar. Such a system would provide at least EUR 617 for every pensioner for 40 years of work. This is the poverty threshold for a one-member household at monthly level, as reported by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. The Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2017 and 2018 provides minimum improvements in the security of pensioners and the financing of municipalities, so we will not oppose it in the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u159	Mag. Alenka Bratušek will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members. Here you go, Mrs. Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u160	Thank you and a nice hello again, colleagues and colleagues! The law on the implementation of the budget should be or should be a technical law allowing the implementation of the budget and indeed there are some such provisions in the law. I will not touch these, but I will touch two: one is a regression for pensioners and the other is a so-called average for congregations. Is it right that the State fails to agree with the municipalities to make obligations for the municipalities and, on the other hand, does it not provide the average or the necessary money for this piece? These are public servants and salaries associated with public servants. It would probably be right to listen to the municipalities in this part, because, otherwise, an action already filed, as I know, costs a substantial amount more and the state budget will have to cover this further. So here I appeal to the Government to sit down with the congregations, find a common language and agree on the height of the average. Another thing that is included in the Budget Implementation Act is the pensioner’s pensioner’s pensioner’s pensioner’s pensioner’s pensioner’s pensioner’s pensioner’s pensioner’s pensioner’s pensioner’s pensioner’s pensioner’s pensioner’s pensioner’s pensioner’s pensioner’s pensioner’s pensioner’s pensioner’s pensioner’s pensioner’s pensioner’s pensioner’s I am pleased that the Government has somehow gone against our proposal, indeed assured the money that the regression will be paid to all pensioners, but still under austerity measures. Despite the fact that we have been recording economic growth for the fourth year in a row, pensioners still have to contribute to the resolution of the crisis, which you say is no longer. I'm fighting 21 million, although 21 million is a lot of money, but I'm fighting because with one swing you'll find 200 million for SDH, with another swing you'll find 50 million for the Bank's Claims Management Company, with a third swing you'll find 200 million euros for 2DKK, a second track that we don't even know how, if we're building it. However, you do not have 21 million to meet the legal obligation and that even pensioners are not subject to austerity measures. Previously, we could have listened to the President of the Government, a colleague from Desus, as much as that government had done for the pensioners. There would be more pensioners if this government did nothing, because then there would be no more austerity measures. That is why, colleagues and colleagues, I once again appeal that we find 21 million euros this year and pay the pensioners what they are doing under the basic law. If anyone thinks that this basic law is unfair, it is not right, then this basic law needs to be amended, not by austerity measures, but by something that should end at the end of the crisis. And it's not hundreds of millions, it's 21 million euros. I'll try, believe me, to find them by budget lines, so we can do this already this year. However, as I have said, however the bill goes in the right direction, we will not, of course, oppose it in our Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u161	The text is given by the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, Mrs Urska Ban.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u162	Thank you so much for saying that. Have a nice hello again! This time, the amendment of the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017 and 2018 brings some important news. Let me further mention that the proposed amendment of the law sets up up up to 70 per cent of advances in public calls for NGOs when the contract price does not exceed EUR 20,000 and when the project is fully implemented in the current year. This means that ministries, municipalities and other public authorities may pay up to 70 per cent of the funds in advance to NGOs whose activities, projects or programmes have been selected for co-financing in a public tender. We welcome the proposed solution in our Group of Members, since this solution is primarily a solution to the problems of smaller NGOs, which now, after the current regulation, must advance the funds they do not have, since these are small societies, which are largely based on voluntary work, but at the same time create social and cultural life and contribute to alleviating the social pressures of individual communities. Thus, the proposed regulation is intended primarily for NGOs, such as societies, private institutions and institutions, in order to facilitate the implementation of projects. These are non-profit and non-profit organisations whose purpose is not to generate profits and largely do not have liquid assets. Prepayments mean working capital for start-up and smooth and efficient implementation of projects and non-governmental organisations allow them to focus on the content or results of work. In line with the promises made in the adoption of the budget of the State for 2017 and 2018 and the Law on the implementation of the budget in the Republic of Slovenia for 2017 and 2018, the Government is increasing the average for municipalities, since they were subsequently with the social partners, following the transmission of the budget to the National Assembly and its adoption of agreements which represent a greater amount of resources for the work of public servants than planned. Thus, the new average of €533.5 is higher than the current level for €3.5. As regards the annual pensioner allowance, it should be said that the arrangements for the annual pensioner allowance for 2017 are changing. While the prices for obtaining a certain amount of the annual allowance rise up according to January harmonisation, the amounts of the annual allowance for individual classes increase to EUR 10 compared to 2016. A new, last year of an annual supplement of EUR 90 is introduced for pensioners and pension and disability benefits whose pension or pension is above EUR 760. This means that, on the basis of such solutions, all pensioners will be entitled to an annual allowance. The proposed amendments to the law also provide that the budget of the following year should plan both the unused funds of the previous year and the expected inflows of earmarked funds. The reason for the changes in the arrangements relating to the appropriations is that the Fiscal Rule Act limits the expenditure of the State budget and the municipal budgets in such a way as to determine in the Framework Decision the fixed amount of all expenditure incurred by the state and municipal budgets. This proposed amendment will ensure that unplanned expenditure does not exceed the amount of expenditure set out in the decree adopting the medium-term fiscal framework. In addition, it also provides for the possibility of redistribution of funds into pension protection policy from the public debt service and payment lines in the EU. In the law in force, the redistribution of funds under those headings is not allowed because the funds to cover these obligations can also be provided with additional debt. However, since the adoption of the Fiscal Rule Act and a certain ceiling on expenditure, funds to cover these obligations can only be provided through redeployments. Due to all of the above solutions proposed by the Government by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017 and 2018, we will support the proposal of this Act in the SMC Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u163	Mag. Andrej Šircelj will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u164	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The Law on the Enforcement of Budgets is the law by which this government governs everything that cannot be regulated by basic laws. This time it mainly regulates pensions and regulates congregations or the average for congregations. Thus, it allocates EUR 7.2 million more to the municipalities and around EUR 21 million more to pensions. Ladies and gentlemen, during the first four months, the revenue of the state budget increased by 400 million compared to the same period last year, January-April. 400 million! As a result, of course, the Government and this coalition of Social Democrats, Desus, the modern centre's Party, can make 50 million, as has been said, for DUDB, 200 million for the second track, for which the question is, if any, an additional 200 million for SDH and so on and so on. Thus, the real character of this government is shown from this point of view: to whom to give — to people — and how much to give to people and how much to put into some projects, which, for the first time, are not tangible and, secondly, are not real, are not real and can actually mean a great loss. The 21 million for pensioners under this law is less than one kilometer of Koper-Divač railway. Today, the president of the government mentioned that it cost 27 million. Now, there's something wrong with this 27 million, of course. Either it's not a well-measured track length or, if it's 27 kilometers of track, it can't be a billion four hundred as much as the law has actually passed for a billion four hundred. But someone may have made a mistake in measuring the length of the track. But, 400 million extra money in the first four months, and in fact, the pensioners don't get what they're entitled to under the basic law. And the congregations are not given what would also be theirs under the basic law. They give bits, this government gives bits for people, for big, unreal, illusionist projects, and for hundred million sums. Ladies and gentlemen, this government is here to take care of people, those who have actually earned their right, because pension is a right, and so that these people in the municipalities will simply have better services. Better services will be provided if the congregations actually receive more money. People, people and people are most connected to the government, the state through the municipalities and there realize their interests, but here is this coalition mačehovska do people. Mačehovska to people and, of course, too generous and very generous to projects that are not yet actually there. Of course it's something, everyone will say, but it's very little. Very little, and given the revenues of the first four years, there should be no reason for this, even with regard to the fiscal rule, that the pension should not actually be fixed to the level that is in force under the basic law and that the averages for the municipalities would not be at the level that they are under the basic law. Actually, I don't know what's actually going to happen here. 400 million more depending on 2016 in the first four months. The excise duty is 16 percent higher, the income is 6 percent higher, and so on and so forth. Thus, from this point of view it is necessary to adopt certain amendments that will actually remedy this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u165	Mr Uroš Prikl will present the views of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go, Mr. Prickl.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u166	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues, allow me to brief you on the position of the Desus Group on the draft law on amendments and additions to ZIPRS for 2017 and 2018. In opening, let me say that we will support the bill in our parliamentary group. First, it increases, among other things, the average for the congregations. The reason, of course, is that it has already been said today that agreements have been concluded with the social partners following the budget transmission to the National Assembly, which represent a larger amount of funds for the costs of public servants’ work, as originally envisaged. It is understandable that the government failed to reach an agreement with the congregations this year, which would be acceptable for both sides, i.e. for the country and for the congregations. In the Desus Group, we somehow understand the argument of the municipalities that because of their diversity, some of them provide greater density of public institutions, which will, of course, bear greater burdens to ensure the salaries of public servants. However, with regard to the appropriate size of the averages that occur at each time of ZIPRS, it is necessary to address this problem systematically, perhaps with the different organisation of local communities or self-government, and above all to strive for rationalisation of procedures, the elimination of unnecessary administrative obstacles, and consequently the burden on municipalities of procedures and processes that do not constitute added value for people. Secondly, it is also provided for the possibility of allocation of funds from pension policy items, public debt service and payments to the European Union. The redistribution of funds under those items has not been allowed so far, because the funds to cover these obligations could also be provided through additional borrowing. In view of the famous Fiscal Rule Act and the setting of the ceiling for expenditure, funds to cover these obligations may be provided solely and exclusively by redistribution. Thirdly, while public finances in general are growing, we still need to reduce the so-called structural deficit. However, in the Desus Group we managed to provide an annual allowance for all, including pensioners and pensioners who receive a pension of more than EUR 760. This year's annual allowance is paid in the amount of €90, as far as others are concerned, prices for obtaining a certain amount of the annual allowance rise upwards according to January's harmonisation of pensions, and annual allowance amounts for individual classes increase by €10 compared to last year's. In the Desus Group, we are aware that in the light of the pre-election year — or the pre-election months, however you wish — there is a comparative analysis of who cares better and more successfully for the pensioners for a few hours. Let me make it clear, in this place, that the payment of the annual allowance to all pensioners this year is due to Desus' stubborn insistence on this and nothing else. To all who would be wise to think that this amount could be even higher and higher, that is. The amount may be increasing if the fiscal rule is not complied with. This should be borne in mind in particular by those who have already established budgetary baselines, budgetary frameworks, budgetary memoranda and a number of other budgetary documents in life, especially if they are firmly behind the writings of the fiscal rule into the Constitution, namely that fiscal rule that is recorded without exception in the sense that some exceptions need to be highlighted to ensure the social position of the most vulnerable target groups – for which we have failed in Desus, by the way. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Desus was also the party that insisted that the regression payment be recorded in the ZIPRS novel. We were liquid and unrelenting in Desus when it came to re-valorating pensions. In this government, it has been achieved that these pensions have already been aligned three times, and six years ago nothing. We were small and unrelenting in Deussus even when it came to raising the lowest full-time pension. Here, colleagues and colleagues, of course, our journey will not stop until a key goal is reached; and this is that every pensioner or pensioner will receive such a pension so that he can live with it with dignity. The fact is that, despite favourable economic indicators and despite the fiscal rule, there is still some money to be spent on increasing pensions. You have made a significant contribution to pensioners and pensioners in times of financial and economic crisis, that we are doing better today or that we are practically on the green side. Respected and respected! In Desus we avoid planting flowers and building castles in clouds. For some we may promise little, I allow, but at the same time we always keep our promises. I am sure — and I conclude with this — that you will not and will not fall for shallow demagogies and empty promises. I am also sure that our calm will be recognized, our reality, and, above all, our honesty in the care and effort for the people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u167	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Anybody want to talk? I'm guessing yes. The word has magic. Alenka Bratusek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u168	Thank you very much. In the amendment tabled, it is proposed that the amount of advance payments, so-called state budget advances, should not rise to 70 per cent, as proposed by the Government, but should rise to 50 per cent from today's 30 per cent. After all, we are convinced by the coalition, and in particular by the Government and representatives of the Ministry of Finance, that public finances need to be managed rationally and our assessment is that half of the contractual amount paid in advance should be sufficient to allow NGOs to function normally, and the other half, of course, when they prove that the first half has been used justly. But perhaps the chairman, like parliamentary practice, allows us to talk about other articles of the law. Of course, I can't go through 21 million here again to pay the pensioner's regression. What some people are selling us, from fiscal rules and fiscal frameworks, is, of course, just blah blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. At the next point, we will be the fiscal framework for health bills – ck! – raised, I think about €40 million without a problem. So you can if you want to. Yes, if he wants to! Before that, without further ado, I had to give you 500 million Euros of additional commitments that you have provided at the end of last year. And now we're talking about 21 million, 21 million, that's going to tear down public finances! Yeah, I know the state budget too well to believe these fairy tales. No, it is absolutely yes, it is necessary to have the will: from words to actions, respected colleagues and colleagues. In our presentation of the position of the Desus Group, we were able to hear that Desus was able to guarantee what is now stated in the Budget Implementation Act. I thought we were adopting this law in the National Assembly. All together. If only Desus could do it, he should have done it so much sooner and would have paid full the annual pensioner allowance. I've done a few numbers before. At 20 per cent, with a fifth of the tax revenues available to my government in 2014, we gave more €300 million for pensions. Yes, and Desus was in the government at the time, and thank you for helping us, but that's a fact. We have found 300 million euros, and today you are unable to find 21 million euros in tax revenue at a fifth of today, so that in the fourth year of economic growth you can finally stop bartering with pensioners and pounding on their chests what someone has arranged for them. And that's all you do. Only that you can say next year that before the elections, we have indeed finally abolished the austerity measures in pensioners. You mentioned a structural deficit that was supposed to be reduced. Unfortunately, you have even increased it, and this is what I have been telling you for three years, that you are reducing the budget deficit in two large categories – one are pensioners and the other are investments. No structural reforms, no fiscal effort. The European Commission also told you this today. You'll leave all the effort and work again to the new government. Unfortunately. Therefore, respectable colleagues and colleagues, in fact only colleagues from Desus, because only with your votes, only your votes are still lacking to ensure that pensioners are paid in full this year at two levels, as established by the basic ZPIZ law. Only the voices of Desus would have been enough in the first round to make this law valid today, and then there would be no further discussion of how and what. And once again, you can trust me that 21 million, 21 million won't ruin public finances. Absolutely not! And once again, if we found 300 million more in 2014 in the state budget than the Mira Cerar government finds, you must – not because of me and not because of Members and Members, but because of the pensioners – find these 21 million already this year. However, if you have a problem with this, I am ready to help you and to find these 21 million in the state budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u169	Mr. Franz Jurša has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u170	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Even on my part, everyone has a very nice greeting! I too will discuss more broadly, not just the amendment proposal you mentioned earlier, Vice-President. First of all, to begin with, some have a very bad memory, they actually mention what suits them. But one year, when a party was in power, we were with them, and we know how things were going, and we just threw the shovels into some kind of hole money to fix the banks. Mrs Alenka Bratušek did not mention this, but it would be good if she talked about those projects that barely started with the papers. There may also be a response to one point mentioned by the SDS representative in his position. I am pleased to have the respect of the two to stand up for the pensioners, but in your resolution you adopted at the congress, you have only one sentence mentioned, and this pensioner with the immigrants. That's the only comparison you have and no one else. So there's still quite a lot to talk about. We are actually together with this government, and I do not want to be a lawyer of this government, we have provided a regression of up to €760 and more than €760. So, even those pensioners who didn't get a pension this year will get, really not high amounts, compared to what the pension is like. But they'll all get it. In this government, the coalition has actually coordinated pensions three times. This is a total of about 2.25 per cent, but this is not the exact amount, as the pension has been coordinated twice and the base has been increased. We paid this pension regress twice, as I said before, only after the end of the government of Alenka Bratušek. The credit of Desus in this government is that finally the coalition can listen to people living on the outskirts. We have also proved this in some way by dealing with this matter today and by solving matters in a way that can be solved to the best possible extent. It is true that we are working gradually but persistently enough that the older population will be paid for everything it has sacrificed in this economic and economic crisis. There is still a lot of obligation to go back, but we will try to make sure that these obligations are settled in the future — of course, if we are present — for all pensioners and pensioners. Mrs Alenka Bratušek shamelessly seduces Slovenian pensioners. Months ago, she even brought signatures to the National Assembly to pressure us, according to her words, to support her law, which would allow for regular coordination of pensions. We must firmly say that this is a simple deceiving, because in this government pensions are aligned under the coalition contract and the last harmonisation was higher than if coordination was based on the proposal proposed by Mrs Alenka Bratušek. But we know that today, as we have been accustomed to, Alenka Bratušek will also perform her false kindness to the pensioners, so we would like to respond to her eyewitnesses that we have witnessed in recent months and also reject them. In the government of Alenka Bratusek, coordination was frozen. Today we have coalition coordination or, if you want, extraordinary coordination based on ZIPRS, all thanks to you, including Desus. If coordination were to be regular this year, which means, in accordance with the provisions of the system law, that is, the pension law, where the formula 60:40 relates to the rise in wages and the rise in the price of living costs, coordination would be lower than February coordination, which was 1.15 per cent and was achieved on the basis of our efforts in the government. This autumn we expect another coordination and we will make a strong commitment in our parliamentary group as well as in the party and, of course, try to achieve this. We did not want to react to the pressures and insults of us and our party to Mrs Bratuškova at first, but because she went too far, we will no longer be silent, we said. It is obvious that ladies and her party are running water into their throats, which is clear from all public opinion research, so for now she has decided to start addressing the pensioners, but the pensioners well know who is the one who is always fighting for their benefit, fighting for their rights. Before the elections, all the parties are full of words about the pensioners, and when proposals need to be supported for the benefit of the pensioners, Desus remains very lonely several times. We firmly reject this blackmail and want to speak properly in the National Assembly, without lying. Another of our credits is the regulation of minimum pension status. Not only our own, but we were also the bearers of this activity, and we are pleased to note, of course, that in the first phase we were able to raise the minimum pension for all those who actually had 40 years of work or as many years as the law in force required. Everyone likes to bang on the chest what they'd do for the pensioners. A typical example is colleague Alenka Bratušek, but I ask you what Alice Bratusek did for the pensioners when she had all the reincarnations in her hands. She completely froze her pensions, and with her Minister of Finance, she wanted to take the pensioners 10 percent more. This would have happened in the then government — of course, if it had not been for us — we would not have allowed it. Everything that Alenka Bratusek would like to achieve has already been achieved by Desus, so all her attempts are assessed as cheap tricks. We will continue to advocate for the pensioners, but we want to have partners in the National Assembly that will not be misled.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u171	The text shall be given by the drafter of the Magi Law of the Member States. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Yes, Desus is a party that has been in all governments since 2002, if I'm not mistaken. For 15 years, he's created Slovenian politics. When the bank hole was formed, you were there; when we repaired it, you were there. But it's always everyone else's fault. What did he say before me, buddy? “With a shovel, they throw money into banks”. Dear colleague, at the last meeting of the Public Finance Supervisory Commission, a decision was proposed to verify this before the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank. Will you believe that Desus voted against it? Then what's demagic? What's demagogy? Desus also supported all measures relating to bank rehabilitation. That's the demagogy you're running. Yeah, something to do and something to say! Those who do not separate the situation in 2013 from today, we can ask ourselves that question. I will show you, Mr Jurša, once again, this is a picture of how much for Slovenian pensioners to rule Mir Cerar, and how much the government has given Alenka Bratušek. A billion 700, a billion 650, to be more precise, had to be made from the state budget to ensure that pensions did not fall. You find a billion 370 million today, and you're punching your fingers at what you've done for the pensioners. We've found 300 million more in the most difficult times! Yes, the pension had to be frozen, yes, so that the Greek script did not happen and the pensioners would lose up to 20% of their pension. By the way, in 2012 pensions were nominally reduced by pensioners. Can you believe that Desus was there at the time and voted in favour? That's demagic! From the situation where Slovenia was breathing on gills, if I use the illustration to compare today with 800 million more tax revenues, you ask why we did not coordinate and raise pensions. You're really making a fool out of people, and most of all from pensioners. 300 million more, 300 million more together with Desus in 2014 we found Slovenian pensioners. Pensions are coordinated under a coalition contract. I'd be more than happy to do what the law says. That is exactly why it would be right to stop mixing and not to anyone – let it be me, let it be you, let it be someone else - knocking on the chest, what was done for the pensioners. It is therefore appropriate that the fourth year of economic growth cease to apply crisis or anti-crisis measures. That is why the Public Finance Balance Act was drafted and this was our proposal. But you are predicting this next year; if you were on the Committee on Finance, you would hear that this is not yet agreed on. It made it very clear how much is guaranteed for the pensioners' regression and this is not enough to pay the regression at two levels if we take the two highest this year. It is said that the pensioners will again receive some trade, as far as they will eventually be left for them. In my opinion, it would really be crucial that these measures be lifted and that not every year someone negotiates on behalf of pensioners, or we provide those few fiches for their coordination or their regression. And one more thing, Mr. Jurša. If, in 2014, pensions were to be given as little as that of Mir Cerar's government today, these pensions should be 7% lower. Seven percent lower! EUR 500 per average pensioner with an average pension. And that's a fact, you can check it in numbers. You've thought a little bit about it before, and I'll tell you what we've guaranteed from the state budget for the pensioners. Yes, the pension register is fuller and therefore less money is needed from the state budget. That's logical, but even more logical, if we found 300 million, you find 21 of them and pay full regress in two heights, without mixing – or, what did my colleague say before me? And I agree with you – yes, the pensioners really know. When I collected signatures in Slovenia, they told me that they really know who is doing what for them. However, this is not the case, it would be time for more than 3% of economic growth to stop pensioners from taking part in crisis measures. [[…]] You want to boast about the economic situation and I am glad that Slovenia is in such a situation as it is today, only to let people feel it. Retired, too. And something else was said earlier that you always fulfill what you promise. Do you remember the thousands of euros in pension? Now we're at an average of 600 at a minimum of 500. Do you know where we have another thousand euros? Yeah, there are some pre-election promises, but there's something that needs to be done for people. And not to wait for the second year, not to wait for pre-election promises, but to show them together today, because neither can Desus himself, any party alone can accept this proposal. Regrettably, the amendment to this article relating to the payment of the pensioner’s regression cannot be made; it is said that this cannot be rectified at this point in time, but that a new proposal can be made. We've already tried twice, and we'll probably be in third. And once again, 21 million can't and can't be a problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u173	Replica, Mr. Franz Jursha.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u174	Thank you very much. I simply and simply do not know one thing ten times in my speech or in my debate, so I will be very brief. We wrote something down in the Constitution. If I have a good memory, I know exactly when it happened. I also know that because I sat as a member of the board when Karl Viktor Erjavec spoke about thousands of euros and what he wanted to say with it. It saddens me very much that some things have been excluded from the context and constantly repeat lies. He never said, as he had just said before. He said that if tycoons could take heavy millions, then it would be right for pensioners to have thousands of euros in pensions. And that's what I'm thinking today, right now, so am I. And another question might be forerunners. Since there is talk, it is also true that we had to provide more money from the budget at the time, because the inflow to the pension register was lower than, for example, during this period, if you want to in this year and last year. Tell me, how much more did a single pensioner get? And how much more regression did a single pensioner get? I'd like an answer to that question; publicly, in front of the cameras.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u175	Again, he has the floor before the other proposer of the Magi bill. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u176	I'll talk about the fiscal rule first. Yes, the fiscal rule is adopted, the fiscal rule is valid, the fiscal framework is adopted, the fiscal framework is valid. But why is it only one? I told you that at the next point, you will raise, raise, change, however you wish, the fiscal framework for the health treasury. Yeah, you can do the same for the pension fund! There is no fiscal rule and there is no fiscal framework and there can be no excuse. That's the first one. Mr. Jursha, one more time. The situation in 2013 and 2014 was as it was. It was heavy, it could have been even harder, and people in our country could have been hit even more. You can now monitor what is happening in Greece, and I think that now some five or six times in addition to public sector salaries are also reducing pensions. But luckily, there is no Slovenia in this story. If our joint government, together with Desus, did not find these 300 million in the state budget in 2014, pensions would be lower. Indeed, pensioners did not receive neither harmonisation nor regression in 2014 but did not receive reductions, which occurred in other countries. Yeah, 300 million! Now we're talking and arguing about 21 million. Do you understand the difference? Do you understand the difference? Less than 10 percent of what we needed and found. We found it! Once again, 800 million have more tax revenues, and the problem is €21 million. Every session you make a law that has the consequences of public finances, it has an impact on the fiscal framework. The housing law will be discussed later. I told you before: you gave 50 million to the Bank Claims Management Company because they didn't liquidate two banks in time. 50 million! To the Slovenian state holding company 200 million. This is all over the adopted state budget. Now we're talking about one kilometer of track here, and that's the problem. Now tell me who's running the demagogue. You or me? [[advertising from the hall]] 21 million is gone and cannot and must not be a problem for ten billion budgets. Yes, tell me, next year are the elections, and next year we will give the pensioners so much and so much for elections, and be honest with us all! That's the only argument. There can be no other. And, colleague Jurš, we can sit together and in ten minutes I will find you three budget lines – you can believe me – where we will easily collect €21 million. You have a secretary of state over there. Let him tell you how much money was transferred this year. From one user to another. From one item to the other. Not a fiscal framework, not a fiscal rule, nor a fiscal policy is at stake because of what I have proposed and what I am likely to propose once again. I believe it's hard for you to hear that Desus is against it, but that's a fact. That's a fact. You and SMC have a majority in the National Assembly, you're proud of that, but in this case, the reason why we don't pay this year's regress is that you're against it. It's not demagogy, it's a sad fact. It is very difficult to understand; it is difficult to understand that this 21 million is such a big problem, with all the taxes that you have agreed on after the adoption of the budget without problem. Only on public servants, together with doctors, for about 100 million euros. But there's a problem with the pensioners. Okay, they're gonna have to be happy now. I tell you, too, on their behalf, thank you for getting at least something. But once again, Mr Jurša, if we then squeezed into the most difficult times and found 300 million for not having to reduce the pension, then you might as well try and find these 21 million for not giving them something, but to do what is legally theirs. Nothing, we're not doing anything and we're not looking for any privileges, but we just want the Pension and Disability Insurance Act to be enforced and the pensioners to stop bartering.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u177	Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u178	Thank you for your word. Perhaps first of all the amendment to Article 4 where the debate is open. The amendment refers to the number 70 being replaced by the number 50, but it is to allow for a smaller prepayment to companies, private institutions or institutions, in short to NGOs applying for different calls, and, of course, if they do not have sufficient funds, they must, as far as possible, hire loans and impose additional obligations. The Government's proposal is to allow these NGOs even a 70 % prepayment, which greatly reduces their obligations in these procedures. That's not how I'm going to support this amendment. With regard to the other matters that we are discussing, however, I would like to add the following that it is not really a good solution in this law, that instead of two categories of pension payments, as also provided for in the basic Law on Pensions and Disability Insurance, we divide, make a table even to 8, I would say, the amount of pensions and then pay the allowance appropriately, but it is really unnecessary that an additional indent be entered in this law, allowing an allowance of EUR 90 to be paid to those who receive part of a foreign pension. So far, the current arrangement has spoken of the fact that if the work of a foreign pension does not report or indicate the amount of the pension, it does not belong to it. Well, under this law, this is relaxing, and also, let's say, I'm just going to give an example from the bank hole commission, which is somehow connected to this debate today in these pensions, even on the committee itself, we haven't been able to get data on how much a certain banker actually receives a part of a foreign pension, and of course it receives it significantly more than we have Members pay. But it won't have to be said either, let's say how much he gets if he wants to get those 90 euros, and he'll get it. This solution is absolutely unnecessary, and indeed during this period we should avoid it in every way, because poverty in Slovenia is present, the differences between the poor and the rich are increasing, and this is something that really needs to be tackled in an organized manner and receive as much support as possible in Parliament in order to reduce these differences, but we are not increasing. It has not yet matured this responsibility to all people, in fact, to try to prevent it more quickly than it is now. Thus, on the Committee on Finance, on the labour market, when dealing with this law on the implementation of the budget, we supported the solution enshrined in the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which refers to the fact that we pay this allowance according to two levels of pensions, and those with the highest pensions, if not submitted, such as the work of a foreign pension, but would not receive it. However, with regard to the other solutions, I would like to draw attention to what I have also said in the position of the Group at its conclusion. It is completely unrealistic for me to know that Slovenia had around 90 billion assets at the time of its independence and that today it is noted that there are 75 billion people in tax havens who do not bring income into the health and pension registers and that this instant is trying hard to do so in order to spend the 13 billion that Slovenia currently owns. This demographic fund – or if you want to talk better about the intergenerational fund, because the fact that we are filling the fund from this property, which will provide part of the pensions for these young people who are still entering the labour market today, is a very important relationship between our current active generation and those who are only entering the market to have pensions in 2035. This question, not to say a hundred times, goes beyond what we are talking about today. However, this awareness of the fact that we stop selling assets in Slovenia and that it is intended to provide pensions to young people in the future has not matured either at the Ministry of Finance or, above all, at the Ministry of Finance, because they are crucial for the preparation of this law, not with a large enough number of Members in Parliament. This needs to be overcome at this point and we will have a much shorter debate on such topics, and above all it is our duty to actually reduce the differences between peoples in order to resist poverty, which is totally unnecessary for Slovenia. Even for the bank hole, it is clear to everyone that it has been pre-dimensioned, and we are still paying an extra 300, 400 million unneeded interest. If we convert this into pensions, these pensions could rise not only above the poverty threshold of €617; I think they could rise even there to €800. But let's just once say to this bank hole that it was actually pre-dimensioned and not joking - forgive the expression, because it's not a joke, it's serious things - not to squeeze people needlessly, because it's clear that this hole is pre-dimensioned and that we don't have to pay 300,400 million euros for interest that we don't have to pay at all. And that's what needs to be done. Simple measures that can be implemented immediately, and kindly please, why not take them immediately?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u179	The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u180	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Here were some words, such as suggesting some things with demagogism, lies, and so on. What I said and suggested, I spoke on the basis of facts or on the basis of numbers, Mr Jurša. The first thing I said is that the state budget - partly from the state budget - also has pension funding, in this year's year more income in the first four months by 400 million compared to last year. Look, the government didn't predict so much, I'm also taking contributions for pension and disability insurance, so they'll be there, not only for the state budget, but also for these revenues. 400 million, 5 percent of 400 million is 20 million, is as much as you need or as is the proposal of colleague Bratušek to make an extra donation to pensions. In four months and at the annual level! In four months at the annual level! For this reason, Mr Jurša, I am not concerned with any demagogies or lies, it is numbers and facts. Ask your chief economist, Desus – I don't know who he is – and he can show you the same numbers. Thus, of course, the proposal is justified by this point of view. The proposal to increase the average for municipalities is also justified. Money's enough for that. Money's enough. It's also about the fiscal rule. Look, it's also about the fiscal rule. Nominal deficit is not a problem at all, it could be a nominal surplus. The problem is a structural deficit and a structural deficit will not be solved with more revenue, but with structural reforms, this is what the European Commission is telling you, everyone who knows about the budget, that structural reforms need to be done here. Due to the nature of both categories and the nominal structural deficit. Then the question was somehow so, Mr Jurša: let someone tell me how many pensions were raised in other governments at the time. [[…]] Let's see. The annual allowance at the time of Janša’s first government, the two classes were, and 34 were, and 23 — see, you mentioned the annual allowance, not me — 34 percent. Let's look at net pensions: 2006 4.2 percent, 2007 5 percent, 2008 7.9 percent. Here's your information. That was then, together can be calculated You were in this government, not then ask questions, you were in that government too! [[…]] Of course, that's why we have to talk about these things so we can't do anything. Look, at this revenue you have, and at this expense, you're giving it to some railroad that's still in bandages -- 200 million for this company, for another track, 200 million. I don't know how many miles it is. It's 27 million dollars. I got it from the Prime Minister today. If we multiply by 30 kilometers, look at this 800 million, it's not a billion 400. Or have you, once again, correctly measured the length of the track. Something's not going on here! But if you give 200 million for a second track, which is nowhere else, don't tell me that you can't afford 20 million for the pensioners, so they won't be under the ZUJF anymore – which you all hate, you all say is unconstitutional, I don't know how many times it's been unconstitutional, so let's stop it already! With one article, you can't. You have growth, everything is, it's great in Slovenia, economic growth With one article cancel the entire ZUJF [[…]] [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Not another year. Look, we can't believe this is next year! There are some facts that you can do, since you can give for the pensioners and for the congregations now, so that people will actually have greater prosperity because they actually have the greatest impact on the welfare of the congregation. That’s why it’s to say that there’s going to be a fiscal rule, and so on, that it limits it here — it doesn’t! He doesn't limit it because the money is easy enough. 400 million. Earlier, you did not take this data into account in your calculations when you voted for these pensions to increase by 10 euros and a few years' allowance by those classes you have. Look, you have new information, 400 million. I therefore propose that this debate be based on facts, on numbers, but not on demagogies and perhaps even lies.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u181	Replica, Mr. Franz Jursha.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u182	Mr President, it will be very short. But I'm going to ask Mr Andre Shirtz a question. If you are already providing data when you were head of the Authority from 2004 to 2008, then why not provide data for the period when you were also in power for 2012? It would be correct and fair to make this information available to the public.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u183	Procedural? Dr. Simona Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u184	Thank you very much, President. One question for an explanation from your side. Are we now in the debate or are we in the charge of finding the culprits back? Because if we are in this second part, then it would be good if we could make this prediction that we will be able to surround ourselves with accurate information and use it to respond to another matter from the one that is now in the debate or should be in the debate at this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u185	My explanation will be brief. We are in the debate on Article 4, the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members, but the first amendment, or the first such matter, always presupposes a general debate. How broad this general debate goes, and I am not the master of the whole thing. This depends solely on the Members and how you make this case. Procedurally, mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u186	Dear President, I propose, in essence, that the Party of the Modern Centre begin to discuss this subject. I think it will be easy to discuss this subject and this is the subject of the Budget Implementation Act, this is about pensions. But the Law on the implementation of the budget speaks of pensions, provides for new pensions, new allowances, increases allowances and so on. I say it's too little given the 400 million extra revenue in public cash registers. So you're in this session when we talk about pensions and about municipalities, about averages. President, I really invite you to invite the SMC to start discussing this.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u187	And I invite you not to abuse procedural ones for substantive debate and, in fact, to politicise them with one side that has not yet been discussed, that is a fact. Can we move on, please? We're not going to deal with procedurals right now. Is it possible? To apply for the word, say what you have to say, because this point is about how broad the debate is, and this is all a substantive debate. The word is given by Mrs. Monica Levičar [[advertising from the hall]] Well, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[…]] I'm sorry. I really have to do this. I didn't write it down very well and too procedurally. Marine leftist.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u188	Thank you, President, for your word. And I've already been credited with that name by a number of people, but I don't know why, in the past, so I'm just used to it. In my debate, I would particularly like to highlight what I think is right in my view to stress, which is my personal aspect. And there is something else I would like to say about the law, namely those provisions defining the annual allowance. This provision makes it clear that the annual allowance is fixed at two levels and, finally, that the amount of the annual allowance shall be determined by the ZIPRS each year. I ask in particular about Article 1 of this Act, which provides that this annual allowance is fixed at two levels, as proposed by Ambassador Alenka Bratušek. So far, at five altitudes, in fact, from this year forward, there will be five levels, since those pensioners who have a pension of more than €760 will also be paid 90 euros of this supplement, but unfortunately they have not so far. Well, I wonder, what is more fair — either in two amounts or in five amounts? I must admit that this area, because it was the PIZ's, that I followed in many years ago and that there were a lot of comments by pensioners at the PIZ Assembly that it was only set in two amounts. For example, after the ZPIZ-1, this would now be a 414 euro limit, and those with 415 euros would get a lower amount. That is why I am deeply convinced that it is more fair that there are more of these ranges. As I recall back in Desus, we also advocated that more social notes be taken into account in this annual supplement and that those who have lower pensions get much higher, and that those with higher pensions are more solidarity. I did not see or feel any major opposition in public. Thus, it still seems appropriate to set this supplement within five ranges, that this is more appropriate and fairer, especially for pensioners with lower pensions. Then I would also like to look at what Ambassador Janko Weber said, namely, pensions from abroad. These proportional portions of a pension from abroad, so that those people who get it, just as I understood it, should not get this supplement from abroad to pensions or part of a pension from abroad, so that we should not get this supplement. Well, even if it's supposed to count, no. Indeed, so far, the amount of the pension received from abroad has not been taken into account in the amount of this annual allowance and the amount of the Slovenian pension. This will be taken into account this year, and those who do not report the amount of pensions they receive from abroad will receive, as will all other pensioners who have a Slovenian pension of more than €760, but €90 of this supplement. It's the same as if I don't know. [[…]] Those who have the highest pension will receive the same €90 as those who have €760 and €770. So this anomaly from the past years has now been removed by my own arrangement. Of course, I very much agree with my colleague, Mr Webro, on the demographic fund that this should come as soon as possible. After the ZPIZ-2, it should have been two years after the entry into force of this law, i.e. already in 2015. I am also afraid that much of the state's assets will be sold out by the time this demographic fund is established and that unfortunately there will be too little money in this demographic fund to raise for future pensioners. That's what I'd like to point out. Desus is very much committed to the demographic fund for the establishment of the demographic fund. Personally, I would like to add here that this fund will be most important for generations of future pensioners, not for the current voters of Desus. We will somehow survive in this system pay as you buy, but for future pensioners, there is a really big question about these demographic changes. I therefore appeal again to the Government to establish this demographic fund as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u189	Replica, Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u190	Thank you for your word. That I was right, I will quote you in the last paragraph of Article 6 of the Law on the Enforcement of the Budget, which we are considering today: “To the pensioner referred to in paragraph 5 of this Article, who does not submit a proof of the amount of foreign pension paid in January 2017, the annual allowance shall be paid at the rate of EUR 90.” Even if he fails to provide proof, it pays off — doesn’t it? And that's what I'm talking about. To someone who didn't want to reveal how much of the foreign pension he receives on account, we're going to pay 90 euros, no matter how much he receives. However, we receive significantly more than it is, for example, paying the Member at this moment. After the current law, this was not possible; that is, in the explanation of this article, I will quote you once again: “Those who do not provide proof of the amount of foreign pension paid in January 2017 shall not be paid an annual allowance.” This was before the adoption of this law, which we are considering. Following the amendment of the seventh paragraph, it is stipulated that the annual allowance shall also be paid to users at a minimum of €90 I only read what is written in the law and in the explanation. So those who do not submit the amount of work that foreign pensions actually receive will still receive 90 euros, and so far they have not. So my claim was clear and based on law and reasoning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u191	I will now give the floor first to the representative, the drafter of the parliamentary proposal, because he always has the advantage, then the mag. Juliani Bizjak Mlakar, and then I will allow you to sign up because there are too many interests to follow on foot. The text is therefore the drafter of the draft law of the Magi. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u192	Thank you very much. In fact, I will respond to a colleague who spoke a little earlier about five different payouts and doubts as to whether the solution to the ZPIZ law is correct. Yeah, we can talk about that. But, dear colleague, on the Committee on Finance, the representative of Desus was also very pleased and stressed how the regress will be paid at two levels next year. Now you may first discuss within Desus what is more right or what you advocate. If you think it is necessary to amend the basic law, the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, and there to legalize five heights, then it is necessary to do so. As long as the basic law says that the regression is paid at two levels, it is right for me to take this into account once after four years of economic growth at last. And the regression paid off for those pensioners with the lowest pensions all the time. Even in a time of crisis. For those of you, I'll tell you who you want to fool a little bit. Now I'm going to touch those thousands of euros again. Now I've been able to check in on the Internet in the meantime. In 2008, before the elections, Mr Erjavec wrote: “Karl Erjavec announced thousands of euros in pensions in pre-election promises.” Without a letter related to the tycoons, and it's written in several media outlets. But anyway, that back there won't lead us into the future. I think it is right that we are talking about this today and that we should all think together again about whether these 21 million are really so unattainable for pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u193	The word has magic. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u194	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present! In view of today's debate, I am convinced that in the next authorisation period, all the parties who today so advocated the pensioners will finally listen to the client Desus when he advocates the pensioner. Because, unfortunately, the practice shows that they are full of words about the retired when they are in opposition, not when they have scissors and linen in their hands so that they can do something for the retired. I will support the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017 and 2018. I am pleased that with it we increase the average to the municipalities by explaining the greater needs at the expense of public servants. However, I believe that with a new higher average, it will be difficult to meet all the activities and needs that the congregations want to carry out. While public finances are improving, there is still such a fiscal rule and a structural deficit. I am therefore particularly pleased that, despite the difficult negotiations within the coalition and the generally different aspirations of the Ministry of Finance, Desus managed to negotiate this year's annual allowance for all pensioners and thus obtain an additional EUR 21 million for the previously coordinated funds for this year's annual allowance for pensioners. As you know, at Desus, because we are aware of the difficult social and economic situation of a large proportion of pensioners, we succeeded in the coalition at the time of this government after the multi-year freeze on pension coordination has already been three times ensured that pensions are harmonised. Thus, in January 2016 there was a harmonisation of pensions for 2015 of 0,7 per cent; in October 2016, the reconciliation of pensions was carried out at 0,4 per cent. Last year, in the coalition, we agreed on an additional 1.15% harmonisation of pensions, which was carried out in January this year and this coordination was not easy. This year an amount of around EUR 55 million was earmarked for the purpose of harmonisation of pensions, which is a higher amount than it would have been if harmonisation were carried out under the legal provisions of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. Let me mention that there is a lower harmonisation than done, which is, according to the provisions of the law which I mentioned earlier, in my proposal for a law, proposed by Mr Alenka Bratušek. Under the provisions of that law, pensions would only be aligned by 1.1 per cent, and we agreed, and in January of this year we have already implemented a 1.15 per cent reconciliation of pensions. In addition to formal and nomological shortcomings, the proposal for the law of the applicant, Alenka Bratušek, is not adequately placed in the legal system, as the Government also points out, as well as other shortcomings. It is likely that the signatories to the proposal of this law, for which the competent committee found that it was not suitable for further consideration, did not even know that their pension in the event of the harmonisation of pensions under its law in 2017 would be lower than the agreed level of harmonisation of pensions in the coalition. The annual allowances negotiated in the coalition are higher for those with lower pensions, and the annual allowance for individual classes increases by at least 10 euros compared to last year, for some more and the class limits also rise in favour of recipients of annual amounts. For many years, annual allowances have not been paid to pensioners with slightly higher pensions, and this year all pensioners will receive them. A pensioner with a pension of 630.01 euros to 760 euros will receive an annual allowance of 150 euros and a pension of more than 760.01 euros will receive an annual allowance of 90 euros. Of course, in the Desus Group we would like even higher pensions and a higher annual allowance, but in doing so we are bound by a fiscal rule and the need to reduce the structural deficit. In addition, they are competent to the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, unfortunately in the hands of coalition partners. According to the bill mag. The pensioner would receive a lower annual allowance of up to EUR 530 in the class than he would receive in the event of the implementation of the Budget Implementation Act for 2017 and 2018 and as agreed in the Coalition by Desus. In the case of good proposals, we are pleased with the interest and contribution of each Member to improve the situation of the retired, even though there are reasons for such an effort only before the elections or when such proposals come only for electoral reasons, but the proposal of the Bratuškova law is not good for the retired, as has already been noted by the competent committee of the National Assembly, and as Mr Kordiš also stated in his presentation of the Group's position. This proposal is not fair, it is not socially just. Therefore, according to Mrs Bratušek's proposal, lower classes of people with the lowest pensions would be taken to give to those who have higher pensions. In Desus, we believe that pensioners with the lowest pensions need the most annual allowance. However, we would be pleased if those who advocate for the pensioners today also took their stand when they had scissors and canvas in their hands, with which they could undoubtedly achieve an improvement in the socio-economic situation of the pensioners, but they did not. On the contrary! With their leadership, they have undoubtedly contributed strongly to the current situation for many miserable socio-economic situations. I believe people have not forgotten that. Let's see. In 2013, when Mrs Bratušek was Prime Minister of the Government, the reconciliation of pensions was only 0.1 per cent. In 2014, however, the government of Alenka Bratušek did not carry out any harmonisation of pensions at all. Well, not just that! This is why Kad Zpiz did not provide the usual EUR 50 million, as there was no legal basis for this. The annual allowances paid in 2013 and 2014 which Mrs Bratušek could decide as Prime Minister were all lower than those to be paid this year. Moreover, in the years when the annual allowances could be decided by Mrs Bratušek as President of the Government, pensioned with higher pensions than EUR 622 per year, they were not received at all. In addition to the already poor pensions, Dr. Uroš Choufer, current Minister of Finance, thought about additional measures. He stated that, among other things, pension issues would need to be addressed urgently. At the same time, he stated that so far all segments of the population have contributed to the burden sharing of the crisis. Clearly, only the retired did not contribute. With this prediction, he put the party Desus and the union on its feet, recorded in Del on 30 May 2013. Your minister, who wanted to further injure the already poor retired, was stopped by the party Desus in particular. 10 per cent would be lower if Desus did not then stop this desire of Mrs Bratušek's Minister of Finance. The writing of the fiscal rule into the constitution, which is to the detriment of the people, was carried out under the government of Mrs Bratušek, not to mention the sitting of Mrs Bratušek in the Supervisory Council of the New Bank of Maribor, the result of which was that we had to recapitalise Maribor strongly. And the generous recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank at the end of 2013. As a wealthy spender, the state is then without proper control of the metal money of the citizens into the bank hole. Finally, a generous agreement was concluded with the European Commission on the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank, which will be again in favour of financial speculators and to the detriment of most citizens. Of course, it does not excuse the current government when its actions are wrong and there are few of them. However, I believe that the amnesia of the past, for the country of harmful government action, is very convenient for many. Who accepted the ZUJF and who froze the pensions? In 2012, if I answer Mr Jurša's question or his comment, the government of Janez Janša did not reconcile pensions either. I wonder what would happen to all pensioners and other ordinary people even under other governments if there were no Desus party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u195	First the proposer, then I'll let you sign up for the others. First of all, the proposaler of the proposal for a draft law of the Magi has the floor. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u196	If we listened, we would hear what we did and give it to the pensioners in 2013 and 2014. For the third time, or for the fourth time, or for the fifth time, I will say that we have found 300 million euros more in the budget than you will find today. I don't know how else to say this, dear colleague! As regards the recapitalisation of banks, remember that we are sitting together on the Public Finance Supervisory Commission, where you strongly criticize, and then, of course, you are voting against the proposed decisions to clear up certain matters. That's very convenient. This is very convenient: to shake people’s words, data, and then tie someone to find out whether they hold it or not, but you’re against it. I am the first to point out that before the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank it is necessary to determine whether the recapitalisation was at the right level and you were against finding out. I will once again propose that we call on the Commission to oversee public finances and find out. Your government says everything was fine. I don't understand; there are words, but there are other acts. And it's only the actions that change things. And once again, yes, in 2012 pensions were nominally reduced, not only did they not comply. Desus was part of the government. Yes, in 2013 and 2014, due to the situation, difficult situations, pensions were not harmonised. And you'll believe that Desus was there!? Desus was also present when the pensions were coordinated from 2004 to 2008. From 2002 to today, Desus is in all governments, left and right. Left and right. But all we want to do is pick up those pluses that the government does well. But because it's bad, of course everyone else around you is guilty, but that's how it's done. This debate is not intended to do so today. Today we are talking about how we can provide €21 million for pensioners and start demagogicism by saying that this is not possible because of the fiscal rule. That's not true! At the next point, you will hear that it is not true because you will increase the fiscal framework for the health treasury by one stroke by 40 million. Now there's 21 million problems. That's not true! And if I understand the debate of Desus's Members now, it will not be so in the coming year, because it is more fair that the regress is paid at five levels. This has now been said twice. Both of Desus' colleagues who spoke said that social justice was more just. All right, let's just propose a change to the basic pension law and not draw pensioners by the nose with such statements. Really. You promise them on the committee, and I think today the President of the Government has said that everything will now be as it is next year or so, as the PIC Law stipulates. Five hours later, or seven hours later, we find that this is not the case. That it's fairer to do this in five heights. Once again on behalf of the pensioners, I'm not going to have any of this, I'm really asking that in this case we squander the species and find this 21 million. It's not impossible. I told you on the committee, I'll do my best, I'll sit down for the budget, and believe me, we'll find this 21 million. The fact that the fiscal framework and fiscal rule are hampering this is demagogy. That's really demagic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u197	So the replicas first before I give you a chance to sign up. First, it's a replica of mags. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u198	Mag. Bizjak Mlakar, a replica of course, when you mentioned an increase in pensions or a no increase in pensions in 2012. I will not speak demogosically, but let us talk about the times that are good – and these times that we now have are good – and the times that are bad. And 2012 was bad and Desus was in this government and Desus is still in a good time. If I just assure you that these 21 additional millions on the basis of the figures, on the basis of revenue, do not constitute any breach of the fiscal system, nothing will happen because of this, no European Commission will meet for this reason, the IMF will have no meeting to do so. In short, everything will go on, then believe it: if 400 million more revenue than all benefits in the first four months, see, you have enough reserve to actually do so. Of course, when the times were good, there were also good times in 2004-2008 and I've told you some numbers over the years, I can tell you that pensions have risen by 25 percent at this time. I also agree with the need to save when bad times are involved. But look, you have so much more income that I don't know what you're actually going to be with them. Look, you give for the second track, you give for DUTB 50 million, the second track 200 million, SDH that was already repeated, the colleague Bratušek said it or said it first, but look, these are all 100 million amounts. This is about 20 million. That's a lot of money, but 20 million, which would tell the pensioners a lot, brought it. And that's what this is all about. Nothing demagogic! The point is, you have a chance to do this, you have money, and you give it to people. Not just put it in some companies, institutions and so on, because it's all in the air. Give people the feeling that people will actually be justified. What Mr Jurša said, even when he said, I will just quote that the pensioners will be gradually, but that the older generations will be paid for all – roughly as you said – gradually, that Desus will be behind it. Look, Mr. Jurša, I doubt anything will be paid back. I don't think so; I think we're going to have to coordinate things first.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u199	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u200	Then you can go back. But I don't think that's gonna happen here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u201	The replica was a mag. Alenki Brother. Don't you? Just like he's got a mag replica. Alenki Brother Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar. [[advertising from the hall]] I'm sorry. So replica mags. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u202	Thank you very much. I would respond to what Mrs Bratuškova has said about my vote on the Public Finance Supervisory Commission. I always vote according to what I say. That is said, unfortunately, she was not telling the truth about my vote, which, of course, suggests that water must be flowing through her throat hard enough to use such methods. Mr Šircelj, Mrs Bratusek, you had the opportunity to show how much for you people, when your party was in power. And you didn't take money from the poor. You took money from the poor. If we weren't in the government, I wasn't there, but today's pensions would be down by 10 percent. These are the facts. Only the fact that Desus was then in government prevented a 10% reduction in pensions. That says enough about it. Put a man in power and he'll show you what he's like. But when he no longer has authority, then those words do not mean much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u203	As a proponent first [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Procedural mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u204	Mr President, I think that the word lies too often has been used in this Chamber today, and those who tell anyone that they are lying must prove it. Please warn your colleagues about this. Personally, I'm not gonna let that happen. Many times today this has been said here before me, so I think that we are in the National Assembly, where we are supposed to talk argumentatively and in a way normally, with lies to operate on, if this is the custom of someone else – mine is certainly not – and please, if you can warn your colleagues that they are looking out for these words.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u205	I think they've heard your warning that you don't agree with the use of the word lie, and I'm actually going to stay because I can't judge when the matter is a lie and when it's a lie, as if sometimes diplomatically, some matter could be said from someone else's point of view. Now I am finally giving you the opportunity to sign up for further discussion. We are still talking about Article 4 and the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Mr. Uroš Prikl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! I would expect in today's debate, when we talk about ZIPRS, about the Law on the Implementation of the Budget for 2017 and 2018, which is more or less a law of a more technical nature in order to discuss everything else than that word of indictment would run here. I have a feeling that some kind of stampede to Desus through this debate has been dropped here today. For everything that has been bad in the past done both for the state budget and for the pensioners, it is, of course, Desus, listening to the past debate, all that is positive, and all of you, somehow share things. But voters, pensioners and pensioners know that's not the case. There is still something positive about this technical law, ZIPRS, which is becoming less and less technical – more control, better control, I believe better control, the possibility of reallocation, which has not been a practice so far. It saddens me little to see that a small leap in local self-government, and only three euros higher than the so-called average, is that some municipalities, including the Mariborn from which I come, have a very dense network of public institutions and, of course, their burden on the salaries or costs of the employees there is much higher and I fear that they will be difficult to manage. And, of course, the fourth point, which was the most involved, is this concern – I do not want to be cynical here, but if it is really to all political parties, even to those whose representatives you have already been reported to the word, I speak from the opposition, I really care so much about the pensioners, then they should not be afraid in the future. They can only be afraid if Desus has fewer people, Members of Parliament, but I believe that this will not happen. I do not want to go back, but I do want to go back to those most critical moments of Slovenia during the economic and economic crisis, but I do not think it is appropriate to compare us or to make some comparisons with Greece. Otherwise, there was the most alarming situation, the pensioners were given the biggest restrictions, but there were 13th, 14th pensions paid, there were pensions paid to dead people, and this had nothing to do with comparing the situation in Slovenia. It is true, however, that in one of the governments, in which Desus, unfortunately, was also the then finance minister, said and remained, I am narrating, alive: "Retired to this financial crisis, the economic situation in Slovenia did not contribute anything." This was about like putting a red flag in front of a bull for Desus. Indeed, it was unacceptable for the Minister of Finance to make such an unseemly statement, since it is necessary to know that the pensioners still paid or contributed a great deal to the improvement of the situation and far from holding the fact that the pensioners did not move the wagon upwards with anything. Now the situation is slightly different, the situation is getting better, exports are getting bigger, it's always been good, economic growth is stable and, of course, it's late for us to do something extra for the pensioners. It has already been said several times that the credit of this government and of Desus as well, of course – I never said that something was guaranteed by Desus, but I spoke several times through valorisation, through providing regress to all pensioners, through ensuring the increase of the lowest pension, that Desus insisted stubbornly that he was liquid if you want him to be on the table or that there is a change of legislation, that those measures, which have at least slightly improved the material situation of pensioners. In the same breath, I must say that in all of this, with all the effects that have been done so far, I am not most satisfied. I will be pleased when every pensioner has such a pension that it will enable him to live a decent life. Last but not least 30, 40 and more years of working and paying in retirement, in health care, in paying taxes on the budget and so on, not least the construction of this society over the past period, but still means that today all pensioners can and must earn and receive such pensions because it is no charity, such a pension, that they can live with dignity and not live. Of course, we can say or this fiscal law, this fiscal rule has effects on smaller measures in the area of pension payments, valorisations and so on – of course it has! At that time, we accepted it, quite rigid, quite firm, and we were not/not/not-anyhow susceptible to putting another security guard in, when the material situation of the socially weak is at risk, that an exception can be made, such as when the financial situation deteriorates and when there are some elementary crises. Of course, I believe that in the future it will be better, not least, with 2018 all restrictions from the past will be lifted, and that we will step into better times. Of course, people will judge who truly speaks, who works honestly, and who thinks honestly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u207	Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u208	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! As regards the amendment to Article 4, this amendment is worth the attention and we will support it. Thus, in the current ZIPR there are 30 per cent of pre-payments for projects with low pre-payments, the amendment raises it to 50. I will continue, not believe, not with pensions, but with local self-government. The Member States of the Council of Europe signed the European Charter of Local Self-Government in October 1985 and the National Assembly ratified the European Charter in October, but about 11 years later. So, 1996. I insist several times, and this time I will also violate the European Charter of Local Self-Government, and here I will focus only on Article 9, which speaks of the financial resources of local self-government. First point: “Local authorities are entitled, within the framework of their national economic policy, to adequate own financial resources, with which they freely have their powers.” I also argue that many governments, and even left-handed governments, simply do not understand what the Council of Europe agreed on at that time – sometimes we refer to this very important world; interestingly, when it comes to local self-government, for our 2 million citizens, what we throw in the basket. I really can't understand that. I don't think the government, the Slovenian government understands what local self-government means either. This is not least seen from this really bad strategy of local self-government, and in fact, no one, except then the centre-right government in the 2004-2008 mandate, hopes to establish a second level of local self-government, i.e. the provinces. Since this is not the case, we have a centralised country and this is the country's major developmental bar. I really suggest, colleagues and colleagues, that you read this article because it is a waste of my time to read all these eight points now, but it is so understandable that every nine-year-old understands this very much, but the government does not. Well, I don't want to feel sorry for anyone. Thus this novel of the law on the implementation of the budget is in the sense of number three; three euros. Three euros! Plus, let's say, a little more than 10 percent. So, three euros and a half euros, each citizen gets on an annual basis with this amendment to the law. This sums up, it's very easy to calculate because there are 2 million of us, about 7.2 million from the state budget. If this is a principle of subsidiarity, then I really don't understand any more. And another three euros a month, but a little less, if we're more accurate, if we share 21 million euros for pensioners and we share that with 615 thousand pensioners, that's the average number for last year, we get 2.8 – but we round 3 euros a month. Not enough! You will say, of course, that the opposition says so. Yes, but we talked about low pensions and the fraud of pensioners, even when we were in power in 2004-2008. At that time, we were able to reconcile pensions with the growth of gross wages and found that the previous government, and the LDS, along with others, had brought in about two and a half pensions to the pensioners in four years. Look at the magnetograms, look at the calculations, that was then; but I would like to look to the future, ladies and gentlemen. This debate, which is good, expresses concern for pensioners – who does not care about pensioners, which policy does not care about pensioners? Everything! Which one has more credit? I'm not the judge to share points here now. I really don't like that. But the deficit in this debate is where and how to provide more money for pensioners, because that's the right. Madam Secretary of State has recently announced and accurately calculated, and this can be calculated, for the pensioners of the Republic of Slovenia we will need a good EUR 5.3 billion in the following year. It's a fantastic number. Now look what's happening to our pensions. Pensions in the last ten years have fallen by 8 to 10 percent. Look at the ratio, the net pays : pension. This relationship is falling apart. If the average pension in 2007 was 67.1 per cent net salary, I am talking about an old pension, then last year the average pension, age, was only 59.5 per cent net salary. Look at these indices, look at these fall ratios. Look at the number of active people working for 100 pensioners. Thank God this number was slightly improved last year, which was only 137 years ago, so 137 active citizens worked for a hundred pensioners. Now what has this government done to make more contributions to the pension fund? Let's talk about numbers. Boring is a little bit my answer. If I say nothing, you'll be offended, but I'll say pines a little. Among other things, labour legislation is bad, nothing is done in this area, and now I have to say nothing, and employers do not hope to hire. Go to the field, ask why not. And what's our problem? The problem is very simple. Again with the numbers. If we compare the number of active people in 2008 – let's say that this is the last year before the crisis – and last year, we find that in 2008 there were more than 60 000 employees working and paying contributions to the PIZ than there was last year. If everyone were on a minimum, would this bring — how much? 144 million in the pension fund. And, of course, in a health thing, of course, income and so on. And here's the problem. So what can we do to make sure that the pensioners, who have not last built this country, can do this right for 40 years or more? What, then, can we do to make the retirement treasury more prosperous? You have also rejected our law in the past, and I believe that you will also reject this meeting when we propose a very good solution for the so-called long-lived society and for more money to come to the pension fund – we are talking about the so-called double status. Why do you force the espouse to close the espouse instead of fulfilling the terms of retirement, to retire, to get this right, i.e. the pension, and to work on it? Why would I have to shut down my shop, leave the workers on the road instead of working? The whole of Europe is going this way to work to keep us active for as long as possible. I just don't get it. And something else to conclude, ladies and gentlemen. If anyone listens to us, say the ambassadors who are here in Ljubljana, it is likely that someone thinks that we are no longer in the EU. We have adopted the Declaration on the Foreign Policy of the Republic of Slovenia and said: Our EU membership is our fundamental political and value framework. When we talk about the future of Europe, Dr Miroslav Cerar – and I agree with it here – he strives and says: We will be in the narrowest core of the European Union! Today, from the coalition MPs, I am listening: Frankfurt will not direct us, her, this fiscal rule! Yeah, didn't the National Assembly accept the constitution? And today? Yes, the European Commission reminds us again today that fiscal effort is too low and bad times are threatening us again.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u209	Dr. Ange Logar has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u210	Thank you, President. Usually, those who manifest demagogism to others have the most demagogic discussion. Today I'm going to say that this is exactly the kind of debate we have here on this subject. I have regularly followed the entire debate on the proposals of my colleague Bratušek for non-coordination of pensions and, as the basic legislation is required, as set out by the ZUJF. And I've always supported this proposal. And I've always been monitoring this evasiveness of Desus, why not take something, even though it would be necessary, in the light of the information provided by the Government, or in itself, for them to accept it. And if today's debate revolves around pensioners, it is because of the demagogic debate allowed by the Ambassador of Desus. I won't have a pension myself for a while, and then I don't know how high it's gonna be. But if you ask me, what is a better share or a greater pension guarantee for me: is Desus a party in government or economic growth or a government that generates economic growth? The answer will be very simple: economic growth. As economic growth is reflected in the growth of gross wages and gross wages are the indirect basis for the valorisation of pensions. If I make it very simple. So a party that inhibits economic growth and causes pensions to increase by EUR 0.1 per month, for example, to me and, of course, also to those pensioners, contributes significantly less to the family budget than a government that creates and establishes a system where it grows and strengthens. See, in the time of the government of Janša, GDP grew by 3 percentage points more than the average in the EU. Mr Cerar boasted here today about how they saved this country, how they put us back into sound financial frameworks and so on. Does Slovenia grow 3 percentage points more than other countries? As it grows, pensions will increase indirectly. Therefore, if we want to live, if we want pensioners to live with a person who is worthy of pensions, we will first make a functioning economy, and first we will establish a governance of a country that will actually result in results. Now around 21 million euros. Look, it's funny to hear that you can't provide €21 million for pension coordination. If you so boast of the success of this government, there is really no reason for the ZUJF to be valid. And just as in bad times it was necessary to squeeze the wallets in some way, it is now necessary to open the wallets that were taken from them in time. Now we get to the demagogies. Ambassador Desus explained that the government had reduced pensions by 10 percent and that, in 2012, our government had not taken the wealthiest but the poorest. Look, this is pure demagogy! I repeat, in the part where he was reducing pensions, he took away the privileged, those who had a thousand 800 euros in pension. A thousand 800 euros. Mrs. Bizjak Mlakar, is the one who receives a thousand 800 euros the poorest? Is he the poorest? It's not! It is the richest among pensioners and it is right to contribute more than those who receive, I don't know, an unworthy pension. Those have not been reduced to any basis, and once again, it is difficult to accept that someone who has been in all governments, right in all governments, is exculpating, and today says that if it were not for us, these pensions would be significantly lower. Let me tell you that at least in those right-centre governments where Desus sat, without Desus, there would be no majority, so Desus' negotiating ground was exceptional. He could have done anything. So you were in those governments and in these governments in the same boat and don't take it out. Once again, the provision of funds for these €21 million. Look, only the preparation of the second track materials weighs 50 million euros. 50 million euros, twice as many, is nothing, the law will fall at the referendum, and you have wasted 50 million euros because you have an unthinkable project. Tax inflows are up a few hundred million euros in cash and if not, you will sell NLB because you will realize a billion – not 21 million euros for pensioners! Then it's that reflection of demagogy when you speak one and you do the other. And every year again. Look, if not, it's demagogic and unfair then to tell others that they're throwing pollen at your feet and putting you on a pedestal where you've essentially stood by yourself when you've been involved in all your decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u211	The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u212	Thank you for your word, chairman. So many clever words in front of me, because even a person doesn't know what to say. And I'm not going to be a demagazine, and I'm going to say the introduction is that pensioners and pensioners make up 36 percent of the elective body. Given how electoral participation is, we are just ahead of the fact that pensioners and pensioners are actually deciding what the compositions of governments are going to be, and you're all blowing up at their souls to the point that I'm literally throwing up and actually hurting my parents. I'm going to do some calculation, I've been calculating in numbers how much it means in money, in pennies -- what they were bragging about in Desus, raising a pension -- in the case of my mother, who belongs to those pensioners who have a pension of less than 500 euros despite 35 years of working age. In 2015, my mother received 3.10 euros by 0.7 per cent of the increase; in 2006 she received 1.4 per cent of the euro; in 2017, when there was now a push, Alenka's proposal, Desus' proposal, Mrs Alenka proposed 1.1, Desus fought as a left for 1.2 and fought for 1.15 and this difference between them is 22 cents. Stop making a fool out of folklore all together, that's what I'll tell you! I can also say that we should probably all end up at the dump of political history because you talk so easily about money. Even a member of the 90, who is very precise, spoke like that, but 30 cents up, 30 cents down. I say, in Slovenia, when we talk about the budget, there is a lot of money, but at the municipal level there is already a lot of money for a lot of municipalities; whether it will be a jury for firefighters or not, whether it will be painted naked on the football square or not. Of course, our eight-year-old knows that a pension isn't something that's in a dumpster, and she's waiting for you to get there and get a little fat. The problems we have today with pensions are, of course, the problems of inadequate policies in this society and the country, and I would hope to put this on my own within the LDS' last term. Not that on a political level I have some crazy sympathy for Alenka Bratušek — let alone on a personal level — is probably somehow the least to blame. Jankovic did not understand what parliamentary democracy is like in elections in Slovenia. There was a crisis back then. They pushed Alenko in, but he can read and do the budget and do something, and that's kind of it. In fact, you are this wonderful pension situation, when actually half of the pensioners and pensioners live below the poverty line – and you could go as a methodology to open up how this account, and show you that this is also possible something out of date – you somehow co-created all those who created this policy. I've only been here three years, I've been in opposition, we've been screaming at a fiscal man, at least as smart as the Austrians when they adopted him as a common law, not as constitutional. We all know who traveled to Sweden, we all know why the bank hole is too big. Now Mr Weber has remembered after three years of his mandate that we have poverty. Yeah, I mean, good morning! What can I tell you? His fellow Member and my fellow Member explained to me that I was an out-of-date etatist and that the NGO sector would work in Slovenia for prosperity. It's verifiable in a magnetogram. Now you're out of your mind. If I ever get to see a pension, it seems to me that I will be picked up with such a Slovenian policy, I will definitely not vote for either of you, nor for Miha Kordiš, not if he is rolling such pumpkins as you have actually rolled. The question of pensions is when I have to talk to Mr Restoration about a smart specialisation strategy, that Brussels is laughing at us, which we are sending up four times, and that is so little of a bad 'joke', because we do not know what we are going to do in this society. What? Are we just gonna go after the store? Mercator, added value to an employee of 18 grand gross per year. Hello! The most beautiful place in the world for a gentleman to be madly boasting. Wire, let's send a contingent, we're buying those patriotic buckets. If we're talking seriously about the military, then we could get two helicopter squadrons that you can use to rescue, not one bucket. It's a demographic fund. I mean, I don't teach for 15 years about the indicator of social development, 20 years ago, I was saying that we're an ageing society. Yes, hello! In many sectors, the average age of employees goes up to 50. We're out there somewhere. 46, 7, 47 – that's not a problem. Faxes will become geronto departments by the end of the decade, if I say so. Well, under 45, except for someone who's very slippery, you don't have any more with as many regular jobs as you do with a saved apartment program. I'd like to talk to you about the budget, about how we're going to do housing cooperatives. Your political teenagers who are longer here, you go to the Youth World of Slovenia, you rustle, let us credit us as soon as possible. What? That they'll be paying back by the '50s for those walls they didn't live in? If something is missing from this society and the country, there is definitely a lack of opinions and this debate, beginning with the implementation of the budget, the blow to the souls of pensioners, is, in a mild sense, shameful and insulting to these pensioners and pensioners. If I touch on the issues of local self-government for the rest of my life. Two million of us — how many? A little over 20,000 square miles. And do we need a two-tier system? We've got upstairs, we've got administrative units, then we've got municipalities. I don't know how long you've been fantasizing about these landscapes. There's no hot water to detect here again. The reform of local self-government is done by the Austrians, by the Albanians, by the Danes, by the Baltics, by a non-European country, and, as I have said many times, by the state of spirit and mentality in Slovenia, it is for three mandates, not for one mandate. Including the provinces. Because you're going to fight about who's going to do something, and then they're going to fight, I don't know if the center of the province is going to be in Maribor or in Ptuj. I'm still saying no in Prague. Most countries do not have one rank; at least they have three or four ranks. We're rediscovering hot water here. In this way, smaller ones also get more because they have a smaller description of the mandatory tasks. And now we're going to get smart again, and we're going to blow up the mayor's souls a little bit, and if we're going to do some budget rebalancing, everyone's going to remember what kind of twist from your congregation to shove in. In this way, it is essentially not a serious policy and after three years I can honestly say that most of you would not even be trusted to lead a horticultural society – with all due respect for those who run a horticultural society – even though you now feel somehow embarrassed or if you start the replicas or so on. Today I had the best interview, now I am in politics, with a journalist on the train talking from Maribor to Ljubljana. She said: “Look, Mr. Trček, you use the word money the most in Parliament.” I said to her: “Of course, because after ten weeks of being in Parliament, I first became appalled at how terribly badly written legislation is written, and then I became appalled that no one really talks about these pennies.” You write a little bit of order and you like a little bit here, and then we sort of play with numbers. Like, now they're beating up some institute because gentlemen, we're selling some fairy. Let's let it stop. But we in this society and the country after Mr Bolett have no one who can seriously count on and follow some serious macroeconomics. This is actually the problem of this society, and the mental framework that we're going here. As a pensioner at Pohorje, I will probably have to make a second Stajer battalion, but my children will be writing postcards on postage from abroad to Lipnica by such policies as all of you are wrong about. Personally, I believe that Desus is an anomaly of the political system that should disappear into history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u213	Mr. Tomaž has the floor [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Procedural first. Procedurally, Mr. Franz Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u214	Dear Mr. President! At the very least, what you would expect from you is that what he said in the last sentence, Comrade Duck, to react and warn him that such statements as he gives are not appropriate in this house. Now I'm gonna say something. Maybe it was them or him that took history.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u215	As far as I know, you still have all the time and I'm defending you when you can't defend yourself. You know how to defend yourself, I know you can defend yourself, so I didn't intervene in that case because there wasn't any part of the hate speech, so let's just say it. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] He was talking about the context of the political space, so I understood, but I'm going to check again if there was anything worse, and then I'm going to ask for something. Mr. Weber, the replica. What about Mr. Prickl, procedurally? Mr. Uroš Prikl, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u216	I apologize, but I have not heard, Mr President, that we should be able to identify ourselves on a procedural proposal from my colleague, Mr Jurša. I think that he went a little over the edge of this last sentence by my colleague Trček, that one of the political parties in Parliament is an anomaly, and I would ask you to define yourself or follow the proposal of my colleague Jurša, because this is an insult.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u217	I think that none of the political parties in this room, which is now or has ever been in the Slovenian Parliament, is an anomaly. This is my definition of how individual parties are defined among themselves and how they are insulted or not offended by what the insults were between the left and right directions, I think it was beneath my perception. [[…]] You warned me about this, and I will continue to respond to such insults if it ever happens again. Procedurally, Mr. Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u218	Thank you, President, for your word. In the light of the last discussions as a procedural proposal, I suggest you find that when you step on your tail, the cat will wail. She's been screaming pretty loud this time.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u219	Now let's stop with the procedural ones, let's move on with the debate. [[…]] You have said what you have to say, yet you always say only that and nothing else, sometimes the law is not at all essential, and the amendment is at least in the whole matter. Finally, Mr Tomaž Gantar has the floor to discuss. [[advertising from the hall]] Oh, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, it was so procedural that I missed a replica. Replica, Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u220	Thank you. I just wanted to complement Mr Trček and somehow respond to his words that only the last three years should he deal with poverty. I wanted to complement it so much that, at least since the independence of the Republic of Slovenia, I have been dealing with this issue, but of course very intensely in this recent period, because this problem is growing. I am pleased to see that he has detected these activities and, only with truly broad support, can we succeed in all these measures to prevent poverty. But since I remember, my work has been focused on reducing differences in my career. You are helping the economy in development and, last but not least, we are in a situation where this is one of the most serious problems, and it is right to speak even more out loud about what I might have been talking about in previous years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u221	Now Mr. Tomaž Gantar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u222	Thank you very much, President. I must agree with my colleague Trčko that this debate towards the pensioners is underestimating, but it is also instructive in some way. Indeed, they can see from this that we are discussing their situation, which we can all be concerned about, in particular in the context, as if it were the point of the Desus agenda. Here you can see the honesty of either the proposer of the proposal as well as the discussers and if I return here a little bit to my colleague Kordiša from the other left: here you can see because most of the debate is about Desus, what happens if you step on the tail – then we have a discussion about Desus. In fact, we listen to the obvious all the time. Desus is treated today, if necessary, as one who has almost proposed a deterioration of the situation of pensioners, but when Desus is in the government concerned, even in those you speak of, in which Desus participated, we are the ones who overthrow the government because we demand higher standards for pensioners, and Desus is seen as one who is an unstable member of the government and with his demands to bring down various governments – interestingly, with demands to improve the situation of pensioners! In fact, we are trying to be a constructive and stable partner in every government, trying to understand the challenges facing each government, trying to understand the circumstances in which each government is working. Therefore, it would probably be unrealistic to expect, at the time of the biggest crisis, to demand the impossible because it was impossible and, of course, vice versa. When we thought that it was time — even this time — we needed to improve the situation within the given options. Of course, we are equally sorry, and especially for the pensioners, that the pension has indeed fallen. But why? Certainly not because it was Desus' proposal or Desus' wish. Interestingly, today it was those who were most committed to the rights of pensioners who demanded that their standards be lowered, not Desus. And Desus has always been available as the weakest partner, except for the last government, only two options – the threat of leaving or trying to achieve something and find a compromise so that the government can work effectively in all areas. Have we demanded enough in every government? I think we've always walked on the edge, and all of your debates about this testify that we've been trying to achieve this. I participated in two governments, I know what kind of discussions we had, I know what arguments there were when we tried to improve the situation and standard of pensioners. And now I find it absurd, at least from the representatives of these two governments or those who led these two governments, to listen to the evidence of what Desus did and what he agreed to and agreed on. Please, this is a clear game and an underestimating attitude towards pensioners, because you still think that even if they are older and retired, they are therefore mentally slowed down so that they do not understand what game you are playing. Dear gentlemen, I mean, obviously some of you think that tomorrow's elections will be another year, we have another year of time, you may know something more, but the memory of the pensioners still goes a little further and this game won't work out. Of course, we will continue to work on what we started. I think it's the only way to actually get to the better position of the older generation because it deserves it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u223	The text shall be given by the drafter of the draft law of the Magi. Alenka Bratusek. Then I'll call in the application again, please. I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Much has been said today in the National Assembly, including the fact that all pension savings measures should be released as of 2018. But how can we believe you?Oh, my God! The 2018 budget has been adopted and is provided in this budget for the payment of the regression of as much money as before the crisis. This is significantly less than the regress will be paid this year. This means that in the following year pensioners would receive a regression of EUR 368 and EUR 223. If that's it, then tell us and the pensioners that this is it. This is not EUR 400 and EUR 250, but slightly less. And these are the things we should be talking about. My proposal is that this year these austerity measures will be released because economic growth makes this possible. Compared to 2014, you have €800 million more; €800 million is tax revenue alone. Do you have any idea what EUR 800 million is? I am not proposing any populist measure, a thousand euros in pension, a 10% pension raise or anything like that, but simply giving the pensioners what they gave up during the crisis. I would like to reiterate that pensioners have made a very strong contribution to the resolution of the crisis. If it's to end austerity measures, demagogies and populism, I don't know, but with more than 3% of economic growth, I think we should afford it. And that's why and when we stop the austerity measures, the pensioners stop baranting, like barantes or baranters today. Yeah, we're talking about cents, unfortunately. Coins. And 21 million euros, as said by a colleague, means an average pension of 3 euros per month. If that's too much, okay, $10 million to buy a wire at the south border under the table was no problem. One swing. I'm not going to count again the hundred and more million amounts you've distributed. The fiscal framework is an obstacle. At the next point, you will change the fiscal framework by 77 million. For 77 million! And it won't be a problem, I suppose, because she's the government's proponent, you've confirmed it on the board, but now there's a 21 million problem at this point. It's not a $21 million problem. You know what the problem is? The problem is that you want to settle this next year because of the elections. That's the only problem. The pensioners would have deserved it this year, maybe last year. We have been recording economic growth for four years in a row, but you are waiting for the election year 2018. Then someone tell me what it is and who goes to demagogy and populism! My colleagues and colleagues, once again, I urge you to find strength and energy and we will put an end to the austerity measures for the pensioners already this year. If everything you said today is true, then it is probably not a problem to press the "for" button. No fiscal framework or fiscal rule will be compromised. Trust me, 21 million won't ruin public finances. The one who talks about public finances has no idea. About 10 billion is a difficult state budget and 21 million need to be found very, very, very quickly. I used to ask the government how much money she actually redistributed this year, and somehow we didn't get an answer. Thus, if you have this information at hand, I would really like you to tell everyone how much the Government has redistributed with conclusions, so that it is clear to colleagues that we are talking about a significantly higher number than 21 million.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u225	The State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance mag has the floor. Sasha Jazbec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u226	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, hello to you in my name! I would like to respond to some of the suggestions from your debate. Thus, the austerity measures taken in the years of the dry cows are being phased out. These are three main areas of public spending: labour and pension costs, each of which are about 4 billion and a half per year, as in the area of transfers to individuals and households, for which about EUR 200 million and EUR 200 million are paid out of the national budget at annual level. When preparing the 18-20 framework you adopted last month, the Government planned full harmonisation of pensions and an annual allowance of the amount paid before the ZUJF. Thus, we can say that pensioners will be the first to be fully abolished in 2018. As has already been pointed out today, there is a desire and need more than is possible, and I would therefore like to stress here that both the state budget and the state sector still have a deficit. We are still spending more than we collect, and therefore it is crucial that the government emphasises all the time that public finances need to be consolidated gradually. The second point to which I would respond is that the government is failing the budget. The government cannot go past the budget because the National Assembly is the one adopting the fiscal framework since last year, the medium-term fiscal framework, which sets the ceiling for expenditure and the target balance, and on the basis of this medium-term framework, a draft budget is then drawn up and the draft budgets, which are also adopted in the National Assembly, set a ceiling for expenditure that can be used by budgetary users. Therefore, the Government cannot make any commitments beyond that, since any change would require a balance or any consumption higher than that set out in the National Assembly would require a rebalancing. However, the Government has a redistribution mechanism or has the possibility of redistribution and no, unfortunately I have no data on how much it was redistributed in this year through the Government's conclusions. Third point, about the average. According to existing arrangements, according to existing ZIPRS, municipalities receive EUR 530 in average. In the proposal before you, they will receive 3 euros and a half. This is calculated on the basis of the additional labour costs to be incurred by the municipalities on the basis of an agreement concluded with the social partners or unions after the average has already been established and the state budget has already been forwarded to the National Assembly. We have calculated, therefore, how much of the labour costs are being spent on municipalities and 56 million euros, as was estimated at the time, that the additional labour costs for the whole sector of the country will be spent on municipalities somewhere between 8 and 9 per cent of these costs; this is said to include both the direct costs of municipal administrations and the costs of work paid indirectly by municipalities through transfers, i.e. through payments to kindergartens and public institutions, public agencies, in nursing homes. I would like to say that the Government will give the municipalities more than the additional costs that the municipalities will have in this regard. I would like to say that, in November, the Constitutional Court stated in its decision that the key objective of the State budget as an instrument of government in implementing macroeconomic policy is to achieve fiscal stability and a sustainable and stable national economic development, which is in the interests of the State as a whole, and that this objective must also be adapted to the economic and fiscal policies of the municipalities. From this we can only conclude that the system of financing municipalities is consistent with the Constitution, which is in line with the European Charter on Local Self-Government. I would like to say that the system of funding municipalities governs the financing of an abstract municipality, it is not a specific municipality, and that because it has also been exposed to the fact that some municipalities will receive less than they will have actual additional labour costs, this is the result of a system such as it is. The system of guaranteed spending has been, existed in the past and has been modified. Then just one more comment about the numbers. All the numbers that were listed here are completely not true. In particular, the state budget had in four months a good 300 million more revenue than it had last year at the same time. Mr Šircelj said when he spoke about 400 million that he meant contributions, these are contributions to the health and pension allowance. That's all there is to it. In Slovenia we have the fourth consecutive year of economic growth, the labour market is strengthened, more people are employed, more contributions are paid, more taxes are paid. When you talk about how much revenue or how much tax revenue is now more than in the past, let me say: yes, there are now more tax revenues as well as non-taxable and common, but we also have more interest payments. Over the last three years, according to 2014, 2015 and 2016, the state budget has paid more than a billion euros a year, while ten years ago the annual interest costs were 200, 300, 400 million. In particular, if we are talking about 2008, 230 million interest had to be paid last year than 2008. At the same time, I would like to say that the deficits are now significantly lower. After 2008, when the state budget recorded a surplus of €65 million, the deficit ranged from €100 billion to €700 every year between 2009 and last year. Every year. Last year, it stopped at 684 million, was planned or adopted by 681 million, and it is possible that it could be lower due to higher revenues and because of the expenditure that is up-limited. So where does all this extra revenue go? All additional revenue is related to additional legal obligations. As I said, the main category is interest and the second purpose is to reduce the deficit, following both the demands of the Fiscal Council and the calls of the European Commission, especially what we have written down in the Constitution to have revenue and expenditure, at least on the medium term, balanced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Replica, here's the mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u228	Dear Secretary of State, I'd expect you to provide at least the right information here. The State budget today pays less interest than in 2014. In 2014, that number was higher and that, I think a few hundred and a few million, is a fact. Secondly, yes, the budget deficit is lower compared to 2014 – I take this for the reference year, because this is the first year of the government of Mira Cerar – I think you have about 600 million euros and you have more than 800 million euros. And you don't have to be a doctor of the economy to find out that only higher income has reduced your deficit. You give 300 million less to pensioners, 200 million less to invest, less to pay interest, and these are the numbers to be talked about. I'm sorry it's not a data transfer, but I'm sure it's between 100 million and 200 million, if not another euro. That's just because, dear colleagues and colleagues, you know that 21 million isn't and there can't be any problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this point? Don't you? Then I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided on Wednesday, 24 May, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I'm breaking up the 2nd item of the agenda. We're moving to 39. On the basis of the above, the Commission considers that the measures are compatible with the internal market and that they are compatible with the internal market and are compatible with the internal market. The draft decree was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mags to further explain the motion for a decree. Sashi Jazbec, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u230	Thank you so much for saying that. Respected! The Decree amending the Framework Decision for the preparation of the budgets of the State sector for the period 2017 to 2019, which is ahead of you, is prepared in accordance with the provisions of Article 6 of the Fiscal Rule Act. This provides that the Government shall have the possibility to amend the framework if it finds that the circumstances under which the framework was adopted have changed. The change of circumstances was found by the Government by decision of 6 April, and on this basis it has already adopted a second amendment to the decree on health care. The government’s starting points for the preparation of the Proposal for a Amendment to the Framework Decision for the preparation of the budgets of the 2017-2019 sector are the spring forecast of the economic trends of Death and the first publication of the deficit and debt data of the statistical office sector, which was amended after the formal notification. In the spring forecast, Umar notes the further growth of the economy, which has grown stronger and became more widespread in the past year. The spring forecast for gross domestic product growth foresees strengthening from 2.9 per cent in autumn to 3.6 per cent. The Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia, due to labour market developments and higher economic activity than anticipated in 2017, records a further increase in income, and with higher employment the unplanned increase in expenditure related to wages between temporary retention from work and medicine and medical devices. In 2017, the CFSP also launched a special government project to reduce waiting periods in health care and to improve the quality of healthcare treatment, and at the time of the adoption of the Medical Services Act, part of the expenditure for the financing of traineeships, specialisations and Terciar I will be transferred to the State budget. The estimates of the operation of the healthcare institution for the period 2017-2020 are prepared in such a way that the expenditure of the institution is balanced by the available revenues, which means that the targeted balance of the health allowance will be offset during that period. For this reason, we propose to set a new maximum level for cash-flow healthcare by increasing the current amount of EUR 2 billion 608 million to EUR 2 billion 685 million. The proposed changes also affect the overall level of expenditure of the state sector, rising from €18 billion 419 million to €18 billion 460 million. On the other hand, on the other hand, there is an increase in the revenue of the state sector and their growth is estimated at 4.8 per cent, which is 1.7 per cent higher than the projected increase in expenditure at that time. Therefore, in the Resolution on the framework for the preparation of the budget of the sector, the country reduces the target balance of the sector from 1.6 per cent to 0.8 per cent of gross domestic product for 2017. The reduction of the nominal balance of the sector also allows the State to progressively achieve the medium-term public financial objective in accordance with the provisions of the Fiscal Rule Act and the Stability and Growth Pact rules at EU level. In this regard, it continues to be true that the growth of government revenue is higher than the growth of public financial expenditure, which is why we strive to maintain stable economic growth in the context of fiscal consolidation. This follows the provisions of Article 148 of the Constitution and the Fiscal Rule Act. This year's framework was also assessed for the first time by the Fiscal Council. In the light of the assessment of the Decree, the Government explains that, due to the sensitivity of the sector’s balance, the State will prove to be appropriate to change the SURS data on the two-year average of fiscal efforts for 2016 and 2017, as it amounts to 0.7 per cent of gross domestic product. Derogations in the assessment of fiscal effort compared with the European Commission and other institutions are due to relatively large fluctuations between forecasts of macroeconomic trends due to higher economic growth achieved than anticipated and also to different estimates of the economic position of the cycle. Let me mention that the nominal balance of the sector decreased by 1.1 percentage points in 2016, with the structural balance improving by 0.8 percentage points. For 2017, we plan to improve the nominal balance by 1 percentage point and improve the structural balance by half percent of the point. The government insists that the structural balance of the sector be balanced by the end of 2020. In the light of the above, the Government considers that the amendment of the decree complies with the Constitution and the Fiscal Rule Act and proposes to the National Assembly to adopt it in the proposed form. Given the risks that exist, the Government will monitor current developments in public finances and propose appropriate measures in due time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u231	Thank you very much. The motion for a decree was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Vice-President Vojka Shergan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u232	Thank you for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall be held at its 37th meeting, on 9. 5. 2017 as a parent working body, considered the proposal for a decree amending the Decree on the framework for the preparation of the budgets of the State sector for the period 2017 to 2019 submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In addition to the proposal for a decree, the Committee was provided with material, namely the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the assessment of the Fiscal Council and the written position of the Government. The amendments to the draft decree were not tabled. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Health, the Fiscal Council and the Legal and Legislative Service were present at the meeting of the Committee. An initial supplementary explanation for the motion for a decree was given by the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, who accurately presented the content of the draft decree and also mentioned some of the economic indicators in Umar's spring forecast. She said that the government's objective is to level the structural balance by 2020. In its opening remarks, she also responded to the assessment of the Fiscal Council and said that the proposal for a decree was in line with the Constitution and also with the Fiscal Rule Act. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that the service had no comments. The President of the Fiscal Council presented a written assessment of the Fiscal Council and recommended that the Government make a fiscal effort for 2018 and 2019, EUR 40 million per year. He felt that this was necessary, since the sustainability risks would be more manageable, and he mentioned the possibility of misinformation that was changing and the reality that could be different from expected. He felt that an additional fiscal effort should be made already this year, but since structural change is time-consuming, he felt that appropriate structural measures should be developed this year and implemented within the next two years. The debate focused on the structure of the budget and the difference in the economic growth assessment made by the International Monetary Fund, which foresees only 3% GDP growth in 2017 and not 3.6 GDP growth, such as the assumption on which the proposal for a decree is based. Furthermore, the role of the independent Fiscal Council and their assessment or recommendations by the Government were exposed. In the course of the discussion, the State Secretary of the Ministry replied to the questions raised and further clarifications raised and said that Slovenia was releasing austerity measures on the one hand and at the same time taking care of the necessary fiscal effort. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the draft decree and adopted them. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft decree on the working body, the Committee of the National Assembly proposes that the Proposal for a Decree amending the Framework Decision for the preparation of the budgets of the State sector for the period 2017 to 2019 be adopted in the table. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted the following decision: The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposes to include in the agenda of the 30th meeting of the National Assembly a draft decree amending the Framework Decision for the preparation of the budgets of the State sector for the period 2017 and 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u233	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u234	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Madam Secretary of State! Interestingly, the Commission's call for a stronger fiscal effort and health reform and long-term care reforms is timely for the preparation of the State sector's budgets for the period 2017 to 2019, and it is interesting that the Ministry of Finance says that these recommendations are that this call by the European Commission is expected. We have a fairly schizophrenic situation: the fiscal world speaks practically the same as the European Commission – what the European Commission says – the Ministry of Finance says this is expected, so it agrees in some way, and the government says that it has other assumptions and that the fiscal effort that the Government is making is sufficient. It is, therefore, a totally confused, schizophrenic situation with very different assumptions and forecasts of economic growth. One is the European Commission's forecasts, the other is the forecasts of Umar's economic growth and then the IMF, all of which are practically different. Recently, the Republic of Slovenia finally received the Fiscal Council, which we had been waiting for for a very long time and because we did not have it, we were constantly receiving warnings from the European Commission. Finally, we can also have the opinion of the Fiscal Council in our consideration of the budgetary documents, as set out in the Fiscal Rule Act. I have said several times that the Fiscal Rule Act is some kind of tool and fiscal world that we have recently received, so the masters who have now taken this tool into their hands, but we regret it, we do regret it, and we find it very strange, kindly said, strange that the government is ignoring the first report or recommendation of the Fiscal Council. During the debate on the Framework Decision for the preparation of Sector Budgets, the Fiscal Council expects the Government to prepare a set of additional measures in 2017 amounting to 0,2 per cent of GDP for 2017 by achieving an average structural effort of 0.2 per cent of GDP in 2016 and 2017, or at least an appropriate increase in fiscal effort for 2018 and 2019 by 0.2 per cent of GDP in two years. At the same time, the Fiscal Council notes that such a budget framework of the State sector for the period 2017-2019 could only be acceptable under the condition that, even this year, the Government will ensure the preparation and implementation of measures that will allow for an appropriate increase in fiscal effort in 2018 and 2019. In addition, as has already been said, today Slovenia has received a recommendation from the European Commission to implement fiscal policy in accordance with the requirements of the preventive part of the European budgetary rules, which require a significant fiscal effort for 2018. The problem is that 2018 is likely to be an election year. The Fiscal Council is an expert body. Its members must be elected by the National Assembly at a two-thirds height. By comparison, the Constitutional Judges are elected by an absolute majority of 46 Members. This shows that the fiscal world, as a state authority, has a great deal of weight. Regrettably, at the time of the adoption of the first budgetary documents, including the participation of the Fiscal Council, the Government has shown that it will not give much weight to its expert opinions and warnings. We're amazed at the government's behavior. In Novi Slovenija we have been alerting the need to increase structural effort for a long time. We are not surprised that the Government's ambition to increase structural efforts is also one of the main warnings of the Fiscal Council. Last but not least, we have been reminded of this by the European Commission several times. In order to reduce the structural deficit, we need serious structural reforms and to improve the business environment. The state budget is directly dependent on processes that take place in the sphere of business, industry, technology and other areas. This is where the world changes faster than ever. However, the Slovenian authorities are too slow and are lagging behind these changes for at least three steps. For the long-term sustainability of the Slovenian budget, it is essential to ensure the best possible situation for those who actually fill this budget. For this reason, Christian Democrats, when dealing with budgetary documents, require reforms that bring tax burdens, administrative simplifications, facilitating the placement of facilities into space, the withdrawal of the country from the economy – I conclude – and promoting employment with more flexible legislation and so on. Since the Government does not take into account warnings about the necessity of increasing fiscal and structural efforts, the proposal for a decree in the New Slovenia Group cannot be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Mag. Alenka Bratušek will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u236	Good evening, colleagues, once again! Now there is a document before us, which I have repeatedly mentioned to you at the previous point, and now in 50 minutes we will process the fiscal framework, a decree that raises public financial expenditure by 77 million. And you don't. 21 — none, 77 — like this. The same is true in the Republic of Slovenia – health checkbooks as pension registers – and the same macroeconomic indicators are different for the health treasury than for the pension register. The same fiscal rule for medical bills as for pension bills: 77 million is not a problem, 21 million is a problem for pensioners. Yours, of course. In our parliamentary group, we will not oppose this decision, but let us, colleagues and colleagues, have the same meter for all public finances. However, this is the right moment to draw attention to the recommendations we have received from Brussels today, that is to increase the structural deficit so that, because you have not done so in these three years, next year and the next government has to make a substantial effort to bring public finances into line. This is a fact that, unfortunately, Brussels has brought to our attention today, again. As I have already said, in our Group of Members of this Order on Health Treasury, which is increasing by 77 million, we will not object, but I appeal once again that we also find those modest 21 million that we have discussed at the previous point.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Ms Urška Ban will present the position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u238	Thank you so much for saying that. Say good-bye again! Today we are considering a second amendment to the Framework Regulation for the preparation of the budget in the country sector for the period 2017-2019, which was adopted in the National Assembly on 19 April 2016. The decree defines two types of important decisions or two key public financial objectives. Firstly, it sets out the target balance and the maximum possible level of expenditure of the State sector and both categories, including for individual public cash financing for the next three years, until 2019. On the basis of the spring forecast of the economic developments prepared by the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development and the current trends in public finances, the Government found that the circumstances under which the original decision and the applicable framework had been drawn up had changed and that today it had prepared a revised decision relating to the financial plan of the Health Insurance Office. In view of the improved macroeconomic situation identified in the above-mentioned spring economic forecast by Umar, which also mentions an increase in employment and wage growth, it is estimated that health cash inflows from social security contributions will also increase further in 2017. The increase in income is also linked to the unplanned increase in expenditure related mainly to wage compensations between temporary retention from work and medicinal products and medical devices. In addition, the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia will launch a special government project in 2017 to reduce waiting time in health care and to improve the quality of medical treatment, and part of the costs of financing trainees and specialisation will also be transferred from the health treasury when the Medical Service Act is passed on to the state budget. If, for the reasons described, the maximum level of expenditure on medical bills would not change, the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia should plan in 2017 the excess of revenue over expenditure while at the same time unable to fully finance all commitments. In view of these circumstances, it is estimated that in this part it is necessary to amend the framework for the preparation of the budgets of the State sector for 2017 in the sense of establishing a new maximum level of expenditure for the health treasury. This increases from the current EUR 2 000 608 million to EUR 2 000 685 million. In view of the estimated realisation for 2016, these funds increase by 5.8 per cent from EUR 2 000 537 million in 2016. This change also, of course, affects the total maximum expenditure of the state sector, as set out in the decree adopted in April 2016, which will increase from €18 000 419 million to €18 000 460 million. On the other hand, according to improved macroeconomic assessments, the estimated revenues of the country's sector are also increasing, with growth estimated at 4.8 per cent, which is 1.7 per cent higher than the projected increase in expenditure during this period. Therefore, the 2017 Decree also reduces the country’s target balance by minus 1.6 per cent of GDP to minus 0.8 per cent of GDP. This also enables a gradual achievement of the medium-term public financial objective, as set out in the Fiscal Act and the Stability and Growth Pact rules at EU level. These are the reasons why we will support the amendment of the Framework Decision for the preparation of the budget of the State sector for the period 2017 to 2109 in the Group of Members of the Modern Centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Šircelj will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u240	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Vice-President, distinguished representative of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! The amendment of the decree actually means, of course, a change in the circumstances laid down by the law and therefore the fiscal framework actually changes. At the same time, in my opinion, it is particularly important to say that the Fiscal Council is included in these changes and in the decree in general. And it is not an insignificant opinion of the Fiscal Council, which was established a few weeks ago. I think that, while the Fiscal Council is assessing the fiscal framework, probably the government and this coalition should imagine a little bit. In fact, the Fiscal Council has, of course, called this fiscal effort, which was made and represented by the Government, that it is more or less about accounting adjustment and that there are still certain risks; risks in particular in terms of achieving the results of the structural deficit. The structural deficit can, of course, be reduced by structural reforms and there are no structural reforms here, which is why the Fiscal Council assesses the significant risk of public finances. In other words, even if we spoke in the previous paragraph about the possibility of providing an additional 20 million nominally, the structural deficit will not be greater or smaller, but it must be said that what would reduce the structural deficit has not actually been done by this government. In fact, there is no reform, nor is it promised, nor is there likely to be any reform, so it will transfer all this work to the next government. This, I will say, in a way also means that this government does not actually succeed in everything it actually had in the programme and what it promised. We are reminded of this not only by the Fiscal Council, as the European Commission points out, but also by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. In short, there is no structural progress and the risk of public finances is therefore largely significant in the next medium term. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are always in favour of financial follow-up to substantive measures, and only through reforms or changes in specific areas can we also guarantee quality finance or the quality of finance in the long term, in the medium term, and in particular risk reduction, in order to ensure that the macroeconomic situation is stable. We will not oppose this decision in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Mr Uroš Prikl will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! In short, on the Framework Decision for the preparation of the budgets of the 2017-2019 sector by our Group of Members. The debate on the decision to prepare the budget of the State sector takes place this year in the National Assembly for the second time. At our previous regular meeting, we adopted a decree setting out expenditure for all four public cash registers for the next three years. The document was transmitted to the European Commission, which we believe will eventually accept the document and, of course, confirm our orientation, our policy of going in the fiscal sense in the right direction, that we would sometimes wish for some additional leave in the field of social and health and more. This time, we have an amendment to the decree, which changes only the health treasury and the state sector. Finally, the same decree was also amended at the expense of the health treasury. Remember, it was an increase in the expenditure of the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia for medicines and compensation for wages during the period of retention from work of a total amount of €35 million. Since November of last year, health expenditure has more than doubled. This will allow the adoption of an additional €77 million for 2017, which will focus on pressing issues, you know, reducing waiting periods and spending on traineeships and specialisations. In the Desus Group, we have already warned that it is unacceptable for the social rights of citizens to be undermined in any way. That's what we were saying at the time, that's what we're saying today, and that's what we're going to be saying in the future. We cannot go beyond the fact that total potential or potential health reform chaos can be paid by those who are not at all responsible and guilty at the final stage. The quality and accessibility of public health is key. To a sick person, colleagues and colleagues who are currently suffering not only physical pain but also emotional distress, in fact, it is of little concern that the health minister negotiates with the unions, what salaries the doctors will have and whose laws and acts all have to be adopted in order to reduce waiting lines to human reasonable time. The saying that a healthy person has a thousand wishes and only one is sick, in which case he certainly does. In the Desus Group we do not only wish, but we also hope that health problems have reached the bottom, a point from which we can only get away in a way that, together with our joint efforts and dialogue, we can move things to another, in the right direction. I'm sure there's a lot of work to do. Therefore, in our parliamentary group we believe that we are able to find a common language and finally put our health care into normal or optimal. Many words have been said about the pressing issue of waiting periods, but certainly there is no expectation of an end to heated debates and coordination, as this is a broader topic of strategic importance. In this light, a passive government project was also adopted this April, worth €36 million, and will be financed from the budget reserve. Since the Ministry's intention is to shorten waiting periods, this year it will devote an additional EUR 25 million to these services. In addition, a number of legal proposals need to be put under the roof to address some of the key issues, such as the definition of a new degree of urgency in the procurement procedures and the gradual transfer of funds to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the implementation of medical traineeships and specialisations. The state budget will already be charged with EUR 20 million this year, with a total estimate of approximately €77 million, as I have already said. The proposal to amend the decree is therefore the result of certain measures and not of the overall health reform. However, it is a step in the direction that we believe will have positive effects on people, so we will also support Members and Members of the Desus Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u244	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting at this point by the Group of Social Democrats! The proposal for a regulation amending the Framework Decision for the preparation of the budgets of the State sector for the period 2017 to 2019 is the result of a known fact that a fiscal rule has been entered even into the Constitution in Slovenia and the commitments undertaken by Slovenia by adopting a fiscal rule include strict rules on budgetary planning, which must take place for several years and with a balanced budget. All these procedures are designed to balance budgetary expenditure and revenue and all possible surpluses are appropriately devoted to reducing annual budget deficits and sovereign debt. Well, and here is the key, we can also say the obstacle, because, of course, we have artificially extended the financial crisis and the crowding of people, and of course, as we will see in the following, the decree on the budgetary framework has long been no longer available, as the budget preparation framework is one of the key documents in the budgetary planning processes, as it sets maximum spending and revenues of the wider sector of the state budget as well as of the health or pension insurance institutions. As a result of the improved economic situation and increased employment, there is also an increase in both the cash flow and the state budget. However, in the case of medical bills, the following fact has to be highlighted: due to labour market trends and higher economic activity than anticipated in 2017, there is a further increase in income, which is also linked to an unplanned increase in expenditure related to wage compensation between temporary retention from work and medicinal products and medical devices. Here we would like to point out in particular the fact that in 2017, the Institute of Health Insurance will launch a special government project to reduce waiting time in health care and to increase the quality of healthcare treatment. Of course, we are all still very much in agreement, but we hope that this objective will be achieved as much as possible and that we will not only face an increase in costs within the treatment of patients. This time, however, the amendment was also addressed in the newly-called Fiscal Council. This debate has shown that, despite strict rules aimed at forcing countries into stricter budgetary policies, restrictive rules do not always work in positive ways. It is worth noting here, despite the consistency of the proposal with constitutional restrictions, that budgetary balance should not be built on the medium or long term only to reduce European spending and to cut investment in our people, infrastructure and the environment. This is the problem that shows that we needlessly extended the financial crisis because of the fiscal rule. However, the proposal itself is in line with the fiscal rule, the constitutional norm, and therefore an appropriate decision must be adopted and supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u245	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the motion for a decree, the amendments at the meeting of the National Assembly cannot be tabled. The vote on the motion for a decree will be held on Wednesday, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. I'm breaking up with this 39th item of the agenda. We're moving to seven. On the day-to-day basis, this is to the contrary a proposal for a law on amendments to and additions to the law on an enterprise support environment, a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Alešu Cantarutti, State Secretary, Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u246	Thank you very much, Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me, therefore, to present briefly to you the content of the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on a Support Environment for Entrepreneurship. In our view, this law establishes three major improvements to the existing support environment. We provide greater continuity and quality of comprehensive support services by regulating the legal basis for the selection of projects in the area of support services for an entrepreneurial and innovative environment. This provides a framework for the establishment of advisory points to support business entities that will be regionally divided. In other words, this law will allow for a recast of the so-called VEM points, which is currently under way in the framework of a government strategic project. This will, in our view, be an important shift in the provision of services, i.e. for entrepreneurs and businesses in Slovenia. Below two, we ensure a more efficient functioning of the financial environment with the possibility of increasing the total volume of guarantees issued by the Public Enterprise Fund and regulating the legal basis for investments in units or shares of collective investment enterprises, enabling the Public Enterprise Fund to participate in cross-border or pan-European venture capital funds. Let me mention here that the Government has recently confirmed the intention of the Slovenian Enterprise Fund to join the Central European Fund of Funds, the CEFO, as this will be an important step for Slovenian companies, especially for the so-called start-up scale-up, and, of course, small, medium-sized enterprises, to have more investment capital. We think that this is extremely important and this also makes possible the law that we are presenting today. Finally, the law also regulates a public call as a simplified procedure for allocating funds that allows easier, faster and more cost-effective access to financial resources or other forms of incentives for businesses. The procedure will be appropriate for the allocation of funds of minor value, and its use will improve the availability of funds to smaller entities for which the tender procedure is too demanding, also disproportionate and disproportionate in terms of the level of the incentive granted. In marriage, we believe there are enough guards to prevent abuse. Finally, let me respond and mention the amendments or amendments proposed by the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia. They proposed placing a new article in the law, which would stipulate that chambers or representative chambers in Slovenia are also considered among the entities of the business environment. We have already promised at the meeting of the Committee on the Economy of the National Assembly that we will, of course, examine this proposal in detail and, of course, also by regulating it in accordance with the Legislative and Legal Service, and we have done so. By aligning itself with the law before you, the representative chambers – three, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce – have been given public authority to carry out certain tasks, in particular the recording of administrative obstacles and the verification of so-called SME tests, which, in our opinion, will also further facilitate all these activities and relieve the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u247	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the member of Mr Danil Anton Rance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u248	Honourable President, Honourable Secretary of State of Mag. Aleš Cantarutti with a team and, of course, Members and Members of the National Assembly! The Committee on the Economy is at its 26th session. 5. examined the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on a Entrepreneurship Support Environment following a reduced procedure submitted by the Government to the National Assembly. At its 91st meeting, the College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the draft law should be examined in a simplified manner. In addition to the proposal for a law, the Committee was provided with the following material: the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the amendment of the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the reply of the Ministry and the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, the comments of the Ministry on the amendment proposal and the opinion of the Commission of the State Economic, Commercial, Tourism and Finance Council. In accordance with Article 119 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendments to the draft law have been tabled by the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups on Articles 2, 6, 14 and 5, respectively. 5. 2017. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology participated in the meeting of the Committee, the Legal and Legislative Service, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia. There is a mag in the introductory supplementary explanation. Mr Aleš Cantarutti, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, explained in particular the opinion of the Government on the proposal for amendments to the Committee for a new 7a Article of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia, which would include representative economic and trade chambers among the entities of the business environment. He considered that the role of all the representative chambers was of exceptional importance, but the proposal for an amendment to the Committee was not adequately prepared and should be finalised in order to be included in the draft law. The meeting was also attended by a representative of the Chamber of Commerce, who explained the reasons for the proposed amendment to the Committee for the new Article 7a, expressing his fear that the funds would continue to be fragmented and that the entrepreneurship network would not be effective. The representative of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia further expressed the view that the support environment for entrepreneurship was unregulated and expressed the need for the systematic inclusion of chambers in the law under consideration and the supporting environment for entrepreneurship. He felt that there was no need to establish new networks. In the debate, the members and members of the Committee focused on the discussion on the proposal for amendments to Article 7a and agreed that the proposal for an amendment of the Committee should be recast and included in the relevant form in the draft law in order to ensure the systematic inclusion of the Chambers in the support environment for entrepreneurship. It was explained by a coalition group committee that the constitutional consistency of the proposed amendment would need to be verified with regard to the reform of the amendment. The debate also expressed the need to find solutions that will not exclude anyone with appropriate references. However, a member of one of the opposition parliamentary groups explained that the adoption of the amendment was a condition for supporting the draft law in plenary session. In accordance with Article 130(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered and adopted amendments from SMC, Desus and SD to Articles 2, 6, 14. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended proposal for a law is an integral part of this Communication. I think that this law will give us a new law that will create a better environment for economic societies, which the Ministry of the Economy is always working towards, and I think this is the right way to create an environment more environmentally friendly to economic societies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u249	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u250	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State with colleagues, dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for the amendment of the Law on a supportive environment for entrepreneurship brings with it a number of changes. Many of them are aimed at increasing the manoeuvre space for the activities of the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for entrepreneurship. The draft law sets out a framework for the regulation of the third level of advisory points to support business entities to be deployed regionally. Coherent regional development depends directly on the development of the economy across regions. It is certainly an extension of the function of the advisory points to the regional level of the move that we welcome in Novi Slovenija. We remind Christian Democrats of the excessive level of centralisation of our country. Slovenia urgently needs rural development. The total amount of non-maturity guarantees issued by the public fund under the existing arrangement shall not exceed three times the value of the fund’s capital. With the bill under consideration, the maximum amount of guarantees issued will be increased to five times the value of the fund's capital, with this amendment extending the range of public fund instruments with the possibility of investing in funds or collective investment firms. This allows the public fund to participate in cross-border funds. The proposal for a law aimed at accelerating and simplifying procedures for incentives of less than €10 000 introduces the possibility of a simpler public call for funding. We welcome the simplification of the administrative requirements that this entails. We expect that these changes will, above all, make it easier for smaller businesses to access the Fund in practice. All these changes will broaden the room of manoeuvre for the operation of the Fund and simplify certain procedures, which we consider welcome, but note that the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Entrepreneurship is only an auxiliary tool to encourage entrepreneurship in Slovenia. Businessmen help themselves with their ingenuity and diligence. In the first place, the country should consider how to get as far as possible involved in the work of entrepreneurs and consequently limit the regulation of their professions. More than financial resources from various funds, Slovenian entrepreneurs need tax relief. We cannot solve the poor competitive situation of the business environment in the Republic of Slovenia with funds, but we need serious reform of the tax system – where we think of the Ministry of Finance – public administrations – here we mean Mr Koprivnik – construction legislation – here we think of the Ministry of Environment and Space – the pension system and the labour law – and here, of course, we think very intensely about Minister Anjo Kopač Mrak. In Novi Slovenije we are pleased that an amendment has been tabled at this stage of the examination of the law, which places responsible chambers of commerce and Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia and their network of regional or regional chambers in an entrepreneurial support environment. The Chamber of Commerce and Industry is an organization which, by its very nature, is an absolute part of the system of the entrepreneurial support environment, their work to support the entrepreneurship of the Republic of Slovenia is certainly invaluable. In Novi Slovenija we will support the proposal for a new Law on a supportive environment for entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u251	Thank you very much. Mr Franc Laj will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u252	Mr President, Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! Improving and strengthening the supportive environment brought about by this law is of paramount importance in strengthening the competitiveness of the economy as a whole. We see even the most important effect for small and medium-sized enterprises, because by improving the system and concept of VEM points they will be given the most practical support, because administrative and bureaucratically they will also become burdensome and will be able to obtain complex, useful information and also easier access to various financial incentives. I would particularly like to point out that its institutional structure is of paramount importance for the effectiveness of the support environment. Here, in particular, I think it is important that representative chambers and chambers of commerce systematically integrate into this system and thus receive a permanent solution so that instead of always looking for financial resources for survival, they can devote themselves to their core task. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we will certainly unitedly support the bill's proposal because we believe it is useful and helps to strengthen the strength of the national economy. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u253	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Šircelj will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u254	Thank you very much for your words, Mr Vice President, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Certainly welcome measures that improve the environment for entrepreneurship. Any action. More importantly, in the country, Slovenia, there are actually broader conditions for creativity, for entrepreneurship, for innovation, for innovation, for people to come up with their ideas and, of course, to materialize their ideas. Unfortunately, the broader environment for entrepreneurship and for entrepreneurs is, according to our assessment, unfriendly. Unfriendly in that the entrepreneur, the one who acquires ideas, creates them and then materializes them and thus creates new jobs, is not sufficiently respected, sufficiently numbered in society. On the other hand, it just doesn't have enough, I'll say, nice people in the government who would actually help him. Too often there are unjustifiable criticisms, sometimes even bullying, including people being unkind and simply throwing pollen at his feet. Such an entrepreneurial environment is certainly not stimulating and therefore many go abroad and create businesses and entrepreneurship abroad. There they find, unfortunately, a better business environment. In Slovenia we also need to change the basic thinking about entrepreneurship, in the direction that the entrepreneur is the one who creates new jobs. These jobs actually make it possible to employ people and enable employees to earn income, to gain easy opportunities to increase their well-being. This is also shown by some international research. Thus, international research shows that only 14 percent of people show entrepreneurial intentions in the future. Among the established entrepreneurs, those who have a company for more than three and a half years are only 7% of individuals. This is also illustrated by a number of examples of entrepreneurs moving to neighbouring countries, mainly because they have found a more business-friendly business environment there, an entrepreneurial environment. Until the bureaucratic rules – those that are actually unnecessary – have been removed until the administrative obstacles have been removed, it will not be possible for people in Slovenia to make more decisions about entrepreneurship itself. I am not talking here about those entrepreneurs who set up espés, for example, because they have to, because this brings them a more favourable tax position. I am talking about those who are actually creating innovations, new products, new services and also jobs. As I said at the outset, any change that goes in a positive direction is welcome and we will support it in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Even though we believe that this is not enough for entrepreneurship in Slovenia to develop in a direction that would also have a greater impact on economic growth, employment and, last but not least, people's well-being. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Ms Vojka Shergan will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u256	Thank you for your word. Dear Secretary of State with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! The Government has set out the text of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on a Support Environment for Entrepreneurship and has sent it to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption following a reduced procedure. During the process, we prepared and adopted amendments for the meeting of the parent working body, with which we made minor amendments to the bill. During the 26th regular meeting of the Committee on the Economy, we agreed to include a compromise proposal for both chambers, both the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise, among the entrepreneurship support bodies for specific tasks such as registering administrative obstacles to the establishment and operation of enterprises and preparing proposals for their elimination and verifying the adequacy of the prepared assessments of the effects of regulations on the economy. This is an amendment to Articles 2 and 6 tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups for the meeting of the National Assembly. The Law introduces three major improvements to the existing support environment; the increased continuity and quality of comprehensive support services by regulating the legal basis for the selection of projects in the area of support services for an entrepreneurial and innovative environment; the legislative proposals set out a framework for the regulation of the third level of advisory points for support to business entities to be regionally deployed, the proposed solutions allow for an increase in the volume of guarantees issued to five times the value of the dedicated assets of the Fund and other long-term resources. As a possibility of a simplified procedure for the allocation of funds for small and micro-enterprises up to EUR 10 000, the amendment regulates the public call, simplifying the procedures for both applicants and fund-raising operators. This will also make it easier for smaller companies to obtain the necessary funds. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is implementing a series of measures aimed at improving the business environment and this bill is one of the expected measures. The bill is part of the implementation of the VEM government strategic project for business operators, which establishes a comprehensive, friendly, stable and linked business support environment for potential entrepreneurs and businesses at all stages with a view to simplifying procedures and providing basic support services, information and advice in one place – these are VEM points. We need stable legislation and an enabling business environment for a modern business environment. There is no doubt, however, that the continuity of the business environment is very important, so that everyone can account for certain rules without changing from today to tomorrow. It is also necessary to ensure that the entrepreneur deals primarily with his business and not with the writing of various documents and the processing of legal rules. We sincerely believe that the proposal for a law will bring additional impetus to the activities of the entrepreneurship support environment. Since the Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Chamber of Commerce have recognised a special position in this regard, we also expect results from all entrepreneurs, including the smallest ones. I think the law follows think of a little micro-enterprise first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u257	Thank you very much. Mr Uroš Prikl will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u258	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The proposed novelty brings a number of improvements in the support environment for entrepreneurship. This will make money much easier and much faster for the new company, as a simplified tender procedure is being introduced. In the first place, it's small and medium-sized enterprises. The financial environment will also be further strengthened by the possibility of increasing the total volume of guarantees issued. Among other things, the novel identifies financial and innovative environment operators. First of all, it was thought that these applications were performed only by the institutions within the framework of the economic sector, namely the Public Agency and the Fund. The Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Chamber of Commerce and Industry have submitted a proposal for a nominal definition of the holders of the support environment for entrepreneurship. We must admit that in the Desus Group we are always prepared to listen to problems, as well as, of course, to proposals and solutions from stakeholders directly related to the content of the legislative proposals. It is only in this way that we can create a slightly wider, clearer picture of the current issue, but above all let us get to know the information on the ground. This time it was no different, and the arguments of both chambers convinced us. This is also evidence of the amendment tabled by the coalition's parliamentary groups. The proposed amendment will allow for the integration of the economy and trade among the operators of this law. Finally, it is nothing more than a novelty, and by carrying out their work and tasks they are already classified as contractors, and now they will only be systematically included in the proposal itself and in the adoption of the law. Judging from the debate and the prediction itself at the meeting of the mother labour body, it is expected that the opposition will also decide to support it. Both Chambers have demonstrated by their current working methods that they are equal, competent, of course, more than important stakeholders in creating a quality entrepreneurial environment. We assess the proposed solutions, we are sure they are going in the right direction, in the direction of comprehensive support in the area of entrepreneurship, and, of course, in the Desus Group we will support the proposal of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u259	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Han will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u260	Thank you very much, Vice President. Ministry, colleagues, good evening! Yes, the address is beautiful; the law is great, as I hear it, and I hope that officials will also know how to implement it well and that this address will also follow what we all want to encourage entrepreneurship together. The purpose of the draft law, which is relatively unnecessary, is to be dealt with in a reduced manner and, above all, provides the legal basis for a more efficient organised support environment for entrepreneurship. This is a system of VEM points that allows entrepreneurs to operate with a country in one place and a system of incentives for businesses and guarantees that can be granted to undertakings by the Enterprise Fund. It is mainly about strengthening the guarantees of the Slovenian Enterprise Fund and in particular to help those small businesses that in some way start their journey and are large in our system or in our society and have some potential. However, we need to know that these small businesses, when they begin their journey, some of the regulations represent an administrative provision, and we will probably allow this law to prevent them from being tortured by these papers and so on. The other thing that we all repeat is that I will not repeat it again, but that we have added two amendments to this law, where, in fact, we write down both the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce as two of the subjects of the support environment, which I think they have the most experience in this work during their work. As I said at the outset, the law is okay, it is well written, I hope that officials will implement it, so that, above all, small entrepreneurs will have something. That's one thing. On that financial side, it will be necessary to give some money in order to be able to apply for these calls. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u261	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordish will present the position of the Joint Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u262	Thank you for your word, chairman. We are considering a law on a supportive environment for entrepreneurship. In the United Left, we are the last in line to present our position. So, we had all the parliamentary groups ahead of us, and virtually everything was stuck in the same horn. Over the last few minutes, we have been monitoring a major manifestation of the unity of the Slovenian political class in the key ideological points they are tying together. However, they are linked together mainly in the economic field, where all neoliberals are from one policy option to another. They swear on the logic of small entrepreneurship and, in fact, in practice, the situation of workers and workers in the back is increasingly acute, reducing environmental standards and ensuring competitiveness at all costs, no matter what the consequences. Let's talk about lowering taxes, lowering social standards, this is all about small businesses living. If only the small economic sector was the most underdeveloped part of the economy, nobody here would be interested, everyone would just throw a shovel at public finances into the development of the small sector. Looking closely at the budget lines, it is clear that, despite all the rhetoric on the free market and the withdrawal of the country, the country still plays a very large role, but this role is only in subsidising capital and its profits through public funds, rather than the State implementing real development policy into quality jobs, the vertical link between the economy and infrastructure. In this context, a key warning, which is shown by this law, is to allocate Article 7 of the novel, which identifies the operators of the tasks of the entrepreneurial environment. The coalition amendment further includes representative chambers of commerce, namely the GZS and the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia, the entire network of regional chambers. I wonder if there's an American Chamber of Commerce in AmCham anywhere around the corner. In short, the task of these organisations will be to “recognizance of administrative obstacles to the establishment and functioning of businesses and to prepare proposals for their elimination...” and onward, “check the adequacy of the prepared impact assessments and regulations on the economy”. Forgive me, it is totally incomprehensible and unacceptable that private capital organisations are given such powers and that they have at all the role that the State should naturally play. After all, the State is a public interest instance, in which case it gives the power to private capital organisations. But do these powers mean that from now on, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry will write laws? Will we get a new part of the executive branch of power? Even now, both chambers are actively involved in drafting legislation, both with comments on legislation and with their proposals and in other ways – lobbying is in play. Well, this situation is now legalized or even granted, as stated in the law, to private associations of small and large capital. In whose interest will the country now work? In the public interest, the interests of all citizens, citizens, workers, workers, the environment or will it work in the private interest of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry? Will it regulate the functioning of business operators or will they make rules for themselves? And we don't wonder why most of the citizens on the laws we adopt in the National Assembly think that they are written deliberately with holes that certain actors can then exploit because this law takes a step further: the writing of these loopholes into the laws is now concrete for the cover of the Act on the Support Environment for Entrepreneurship. In the United Left, we strongly oppose such changes, which unfortunately are hardly an exception, but in the time of the Government of Mira Cerar they become a rule. We will vote against the amendment and against the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u263	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of 22 May. Since the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD groups to Article 2 is substantively linked to the amendment of the same applicants to Article 6, we will discuss these articles together. I therefore put to the debate Articles 2 and 6 and the amendments of SMC, Desus and SD to these articles. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Thank you very much. Then I conclude the debate. Ope, if you'll excuse me, then please sign up. Mr. Joseph Horvath, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u264	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will not spend 30 minutes at my disposal, and your time is too precious, and we have until 10:00 tonight. I thought, Mr Vice President, that you might be proposing some sort of ventilation of this hall first, but we'll probably hold out – you know why. As an opposition Member, I am obliged here to express my thanks to the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, of course also to the coalition parties, for listening to the representative chambers, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, and finally to the debate on the right-wing bloc of the opposition on the Committee on the Economy. This solution seems good to us, so the amendment to Article 2 will, of course, be supported by Article 6 in New Slovenia. As I have already said, the law is good, we expect a lot from it, certainly, as colleague Matjaž Han said, this law will have to be somewhat equipped to function with financial resources, and I believe it will truly bring about a better business environment for entrepreneurship. Because of our work, we actually live off it. In order to ensure this business support – I would like to emphasise – the environment has been such that, for example, within two years, at least 60 000 people in the real sector could be employed, as far as we are missing by 2008. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u265	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Škodnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u266	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State with a team, colleagues and fellow Members! In the National Assembly, I am very happy to announce when there is a subject on the economy, and especially as of course today on entrepreneurship. I was very pleased with these introductory words, and, in fact, I was also drawn to the fact that I was involved in the debate at the beginning of Mr Cantarutti, the Secretary of State, who somehow presented this support environment to entrepreneurship with a very simple, very simple, that these young entrepreneurs or smaller entrepreneurs would be offered more legal support, bailouts, here is also the idea of European money from the funds, greater investment capital, in particular the possibility or accessibility of funds to smaller entrepreneurs. The next one, who was very moved by me, was also a fellow Shircelj, who said that every single thing, every idea is welcome, which supports entrepreneurship. Whatever it is. We are united here, and I think we must work in this direction, and here is one such opportunity. I will give one example from my practice when I have led two such projects with students from the Slovenian Centre of Slovenia Gradec in the last four years and students from architecture in Ljubljana. They have developed excellent products, and they have made them, but when it comes to putting them in life, problems arise. They didn't have any money, but I think that some things are still in drawers, maybe even now, when the possibility is given through this law, that some young people may just decide and develop an idea, because this is about new products, new ideas, and these things will have to be supported in Slovenia. I am also joining those who say or are trying to ensure that those administrative obstacles that take place in this regard are mainly among young people who create businesses, in order to eliminate them as soon as possible or to reduce them to the extent that they do not act in a disstimulating way, but to act in a stimulating way in making these young people's decisions for the company. I'm glad we support that kind of thing, too. Like I said, I will support these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u267	Thank you very much. Mr. Miha Kordish has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u268	Thank you very much. It is a problematic amendment and is problematic because the supervisory powers of the State and in fact the legislative powers of the State to regulate operations, transfer them to the organisation of large and small capital, i.e. to the GZS and the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, give them a short mandate to write the law themselves. That this is already wrong in principle, given that the State must be a guarantor of public interest, is in itself reasonable. But it's also going in the wrong direction. Look, everyone has a mouthful of small, medium-sized enterprises. But this sector of the economy is completely underdeveloped. The only development and major development breakthroughs can provide vertical integrated chains capable of maintaining large development departments and with final products to compete and capture value chains on a global scale. Nothing else helps here. In parallel, of course, the formation of economic clusters also has similar effects, and of course investments in infrastructure. Does the state run policies and allocate funds to such a development breakthrough? Not them. Not them. Instead, it subsidises the capital sectors or sectors of the economy, as you like to hear and say, which are the least productive, who pay their workers the worst, who often cannot and cannot work at all, and therefore must use the most exploitative techniques and practices, often illegal ones, and rely on the financial support of the country. The country does not withdraw from the economy but does not withdraw from the market, only its role under the dictatorship of the Slovenian political class transforms from the guarantee of social justice into a guarantor of profits. This logic also includes the Law on a supportive environment for entrepreneurship. Members in these debates often also expose these poor little entrepreneurs with too much taxes and do not know what else to put them in the hands of some state bureaucrats. The administrative barriers are stifling their maneuvering space. Forgive me, the small economy can only truly and organically succeed if it develops around the closed grapes and concluded production chains, as I have talked about. Only in this way will the small economy be able to fully revive and create multiplier effects across society. However, the business economy of the Bolshevik market cannot be our development model. We cannot bet on this map by lowering taxes, by lowering social, environmental and other standards, which is what the government of Mir Cerar and the majority government are doing before it. And I'll tell you my own experience of the last two months of dealing with this small economy, because you're all here glorifying some entrepreneurial pumas that are somehow independently responsible for their success and that market forces them into I don't know what kind of penetration and efficiency towards a state apparatus that is supposed to be that bad thing, that ugly, ugly, ugly, ugly man who is choking on a free economy – an economic initiative. I've been working on some fence for the last two months. Nothing was like it was supposed to be. Precalculations were delayed, delivery deadlines were delayed for assembly, editing was not an option at all, I had to take it in ten different pieces, because it was not possible at once. I had to go to Domžale three times because it was very hard to make a deal on the phone and so on. Next, inside this fence, I got myself a planter, a tunnel. A slightly larger warm beam, about 75 square feet. Five times, six times they delivered it to me in different pieces because they simply did not organize enough within this small company to bring it in one piece, and I was on the phone all the time: “Hello, hello, when does my merchandise come? I paid you in advance, why is there nothing out of it?" And after all, in this plant would be judged by some fruits, tomatoes, peppers, even some melancholy I put in. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u269	Thank you very much, Mr. Kordish. The word has Mrs. Vojka Shergan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u270	Thank you for your word. After this debate, I don't really know how to start. However, I know that quite a few insults have been made at the expense of small and micro-enterprises, which are serious, which are responsible, representing more than 95 per cent of this micro-economy in Slovenia as well. If only members of the Chamber of Commerce, which is about 50,000, are multiplied by entrepreneurs, by families, by workers who – on average two – are employed, then this is some employment and some GDP is created in this country. But now we can't have bad practice here as an example. These, however, happen in all segments and could not run in this direction then the debate. I will discuss for myself in this direction that I am pleased that the MGRT has somehow taken on the role and set out a programme for managing the policy of promoting entrepreneurship, which was previously managed by the Government in some way. It is very good that this is somehow going in the direction that the MGRT has delegated in some way also SPIRIT, which will implement the IGRT programme and policy, but in particular it seems to me that the content that will actually guide through this way of governance is important, in order that the funds will no longer be allocated to individual players in an innovative environment, which is called incubators, technology centres and technology parks, centres of excellence, but good projects will be put at the forefront. This seems important to me because it is the projects that must then lead, which subsidies, which funds then go in the right direction. Then the funds will also be allocated on the basis of a public call when it comes to amounts below EUR 10,000. There's also a kind of decommissioning here, I'll say, micro-enterprises. The total volume of the approved public fund guarantees is then limited to five times the value of the capital and other long-term resources of the Fund and it is also important to coordinate the programming period with the EU programming period when an investment which is in some way linked to the EU funds is being carried out. In short, it is also important that, during the debate, both the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise have been identified as a good support environment, since both chambers have a network built across Slovenia and it would be a shame that this network would somehow not be integrated into this support environment. This seems good to me, and so we will also be in favour of the amendment to the amended proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Entrepreneurship Support Environment proposed by the SMC, Desus and SD groups, because the proposed amendment allows for the systematic integration of the representative Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise in the support environment for entrepreneurship, in order to give the Chambers public authority to carry out countless tasks. In addition to the tasks they carry out for their members, representative chambers also participate in the design of the economic system and economic policy and, therefore, by conferring public authority, it is possible to carry out administrative tasks more effectively and more effectively. Of course, in a way, the Chambers are also expected to provide entrepreneurs with this kind of support environment and to help them develop, in innovation, in short, in removing administrative barriers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u271	Thank you very much. Please proceed with procedure, Mr. Kordish Miha.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u272	Thank you, President, for your word. I suggest you find out and warn the previous debate that I have not really offended anyone. I simply set the mirror because in the entire debate there is only this debate of administrative obstacles and terrible bureaucrats on the one hand and good entrepreneurs on the other. Look, we have good bureaucrats, and we have good little entrepreneurs, and there are different people everywhere, and this is just one level of debate. The second level, however, is the very developmental perspective of the small economy, and this is a completely impersonal debate and it is essentially a question of what we are betting on. We are betting on large companies with large development departments or we are betting on economic dispersion and fragmentation, as in the Bolshevik market, which I think is the wrong development strategy, but at the same time it is a development strategy, which both coalition and right opposition members agree on. Then there's the third level of debate. This, however, is the transfer of public powers and public interest from the country level to the level of the Chambers, to the level of capital organisations, which is still at all wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u273	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Here you are, Secretary of State, Mr. Mag. Aleš Cantarutti.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u274	Thank you very much. Really, just for a little while. I must say, you were insulting. To tell you who you were insulting to, you labeled them shopkeepers and Bosniak entrepreneurs – up to 99.8 percent of companies, companies in Slovenia. There are so many small and medium-sized companies in Slovenia, 120 thousand companies. However, if we go to smaller ones, i.e. micro-enterprises, there are 96% of all companies; you have been insulting them and I am sorry to hear that. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u275	Procedural. Here you go, Mr. Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u276	Please, if you warn Mr. Cantharutti not to falsify my words, so that he hangs me, I don't know what to say. Look, the fact is that a small economy is a shoplifting economy and does not perform development functions. Pika. It's a proven thing. And a political strategy that relies on a small economy as the foundation of a production engine is falsified and urgently ends and can only be implemented in a way that degrades social standards, social dumping and environmental degradation. That's what the stats say. Where is the most fatal accident? In the small economy sector. Where is the biggest infringement of labour law? In the small economy sector! Where is the smallest development gains and multiplier effects on society? In the small economy sector [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] The truth of my words is that this is a development strategy and what bad social effects it entails, but it is also confirmed that you, Mr Cantatutti, and your government went to adopt a special law that destroyed the agricultural land in Hotch for 400 very poor jobs with poor wages just so that some foreign corporation with your subsidies would make profits on our workers and for no reason pay, destroy our nature, destroy our land. E!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u277	Of course, Mr. Kordish, there's nothing wrong with the agenda. However, I must say that, of course, the shoplifting in this context was offensive. Mr. Han has a procedural or debate?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u278	Dear Vice President! It seems that for some hours it is recognized, and I suggest we stop the work, because now I, too, as a social democrat, can no longer listen to this negligence. I suggest we all go to our Kordish together, knock down that fence together and plant melancans, and I don't know what else to help him with. But if not, maybe General Motors or one of these big clusters could fence it, because I don't know who in this Slovenia, if not small craftsmen, can still do it. Thank God we have little craftsmen to do things like this! It is interesting, however, that after your performance, Mr Kordish or Comrade Kordish received many messages from small craftsmen, but I would rather not read them because even this hate speech might be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u279	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this point? Mrs. Private Shergan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u280	I'll respond myself. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u281	You just don't have a pardon. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u282	Yes, the debate. I would like to respond again because I feel that anyone who can earn his own life is worthy of respect in this country, so let us pour ourselves some pure wine here. But those who can earn their own livelihood deserve respect and no one has the right to insult small businesses and craftsmen in this way. That's all.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u283	I'm just asking that there be no abuse, no substantive discussion. Mr. Kordish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u284	There will be no substantive debate, but I would just like to remind you again, President, of the perversion of my words. Whoever's capable of putting the company on its own is the emperor to me. Sorry, but it doesn't change. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] which does not change the fact that the small economy development strategy is missing. We need a major chain production, that's my point. I think she came through, but now, if you want to hear her, okay, if you want to keep manipulating my words, fine.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u285	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Good. After no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided on Wednesday, 24 May, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I'm breaking the 7th item of the agenda. We're moving to 11. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law amending the law on the development of support for the region in the period from 2010 to 2017 within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of six Members and Members with first-signed Mr Joseph Horvat. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the motioners to propose the bill to Mr Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u286	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In a way, I can now see with pleasure the end of today's working day that there are 90 minus one that we understand is creating a new value in companies and that it is necessary to work and that work is being paid. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2009, the then government adopted the Law on Development Support to the Pomurska Region. When we talk about this law on the pomurska region, we think of the 27 municipalities of the statistical region of Pomurje and the 3 municipalities of the administrative unit of Ormož. At that time, if I may recall, the business systems in Pomour were practically falling as dominoes, and we then, although outside Parliament, welcomed this law. Article 4 of this Act makes it very clear that the Government provides EUR 33 million to promote the competitiveness of the gloomy economy. Of course, there was a crisis in the middle, and it is likely that each government had difficulty in providing these funds, so that the law could not actually, as originally planned, be concluded in 2015. We experienced a first renewal for 2016 and 2017, even during this period sufficient resources were not provided to draw this quota of EUR 33 million to promote competitiveness. This was then last autumn, when we had the budgetary discussions for the budget rebalancing of the Republic of Slovenia in 2017, and I also pointed out that the item for the Pomurian Development Act does not contain sufficient financial resources. At that time, I announced that the amendment had not been adopted, which was in some way understandable, that the coalition would normally not accept in the budgets of the opposition amendments, but I announced then that I would propose an extension of the law and that in New Slovenia the word was valid and we also realized that. Maybe a few stats. First, if we look at the registered unemployment rate in Pomurje this year was still 55 per cent higher than the average of the Republic of Slovenia: Slovenia 11.2, Pomurje 17.4 – registered unemployment rate. Also, if we look at it, say, the net is crying. Last year's net salary in Pomour is behind Slovenia's average by about 9%, for the central Slovenian region by 16% and so on. Marriage has brought many good solutions. Many companies, on the basis of this law, were employing money because they were acquiring technology and expanding production spaces. I am pleased to note and inform you that the gloomy economy has the ability to actually absorb this year, in 2018 and in 2019, when the law is put out, they are pumping up, i.e. the pomurish economy to provide approximately 7 million and a half resources for the strict purpose of promoting the competitiveness of the gloomy economy. In this final work, I would like to thank you, because this is a fine thing to do, to all those who have supported the law. First, the New Slovenia Group, which gave me the signatures, then to the Council of the Pomurje Development Region, which approved the law on 15 March, then to the Government, in particular the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, which on 23 March said that the law was okay and even proposed the extension of the law for two years. Then in the National Assembly we had our first hearing on 24 March, 68 to 0 was the vote, the State Council upheld the law and I am sure, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, that the law will also be definitively adopted at this May meeting of the National Assembly. Not to be forgotten, another thank-you to the Pomur Members, my colleagues and colleagues who have done what needs to be done by the parliamentary groups. Thank you very much and I believe that we will take other solutions together to promote the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u287	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report, I give the floor to Vice-President Vojka Shergan.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u288	Thank you for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, good evening again! The Committee on the Economy is at its 26th session. 5. 2017 as a parent working body, considered the proposal for a law amending the Law on the Development Support of the Pomeranian Region in the period 2010-2017, the second consideration submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with first-signed Joseph Horvat. Representatives and representatives of the proposer, the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, the Pomurska Chamber of Economics, the Murska Sobota Development Centre, the State Council and the Legal and Legislative Service participated in the meeting. In the introductory supplementary explanation, the representative of the applicant explained the main objectives of the proposed law, the main solution of which is to extend the implementation of the law by one year, until 2018. In doing so, the Government proposes to extend the implementation of the law by two years, in 2018 and 2019, with which the applicant agrees. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology further explained that the requirement for extension of the law was justified and that the Government was in agreement with the extension of the law. In doing so, the Government further proposes that the law should be extended for two years, not only for the purpose of redistribution of the budgetary burden, but also for the purpose of ensuring the implementation of the measures taken by this Act and the achievement of the objectives set. A representative of the State Council also took part in the meeting, explaining the reasons why the State Council supports the bill. The representatives of the Pomur Chamber of Economics and the representative of the Murska Sobota Development Centre also participated in the discussion, explaining the reasons why they support the proposal. In the debate, the members and members of the Committee generally expressed their support for the proposed law. In particular, the discussion highlighted the importance of preparing and selecting good programmes as a basis for actions that will result in the strengthening of the economic and social development of this region. The panellists also drew attention to other regions lagging behind in development and stressed the need for measures to enable more coherent regional development at all. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered and adopted amendments to Articles 1 and 3 of the SMC, Desus and SD. The Committee also considered the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 3 and did not accept it. The amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 1 was withdrawn by the proposer. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u289	Thank you very much. In order to explain my opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Magi Government. Aleš Cantarutti, State Secretary, Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u290	Thank you very much. Once again, welcome, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! More encouraging results are to be seen in Pomour. A higher unemployment rate than 17 per cent was last year's end in two administrative units, the Lendava Administrative Unit and the Murska Sobota Administrative Unit. More encouraging results are certainly to be attributed to the effects of the law. A programme to promote the competitiveness of the Pomur region, totalling €33 million, is being implemented in this area. For the full implementation of this programme, regardless of the planned implementation this year, we estimate that some €3.5 million should be spent in the next two years. In view of the current experience of budgetary capacity and, to some extent, the limited absorption capacity of the region, we propose that, as already mentioned, the law be extended by two years. Most of the funding under the programme has so far been intended to promote initial investment by businesses and create new jobs. So far, 8 calls have been made and 225 contracts signed, with which projects are expected to carry out 867 jobs. In parallel with the programme, the following measures have been implemented: allow me to list some. Under Measure 2, in the period 2010-2015, 152 employers employed by 718 unemployed persons received a refund. In the period 2010-2015, the tax relief for employment was used together in 225 cases or on average 37 taxpayers per year totalling more than EUR 4 million. Under measure 3, the tax relief for investment in the period 2010-2015 was used in a thousand 609 cases or applied on average by 268 taxpayers per year to a total of 54 million and more. In the framework of measure 4, Priority treatment of projects from the Pomur region, several projects were implemented through the establishment of the Inter-Entrepreneurship Education Centre, a good two million value, in the framework of the establishment of the Regional Economic Centre, almost EUR 21 million was paid for 3 projects in the Slovenian economy development centres by the end of 2015. Moreover, in the context of investments in restructuring and increasing the competitiveness of agriculture and forestry and food processing and diversification in non-agricultural activities, almost €171 million and 15 per cent of all paid-out funds were allocated to all four programme axes. The Ministry of Environment and Space, together with the municipalities, completed the implementation of the Pomurje water supply project, totalling EUR 138.5 million. This was only a few successful projects under this law, of course. I would like to stress, however, that the Government is working, within the framework of limited budgetary options, to implement the law and the programme in a consistent manner. In some areas, there is a gradual improvement in the overall economic picture in the Pomur region, including unemployment, but not to the extent that it is not necessary for the law to be fully implemented, in our view. Since it would be possible to achieve all the objectives of the extension of the law, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia agrees with the proposal to extend the law by proposing, as has been mentioned more than once, two years before the end of 2019. The total amount of resources allocated by law to the development support of the Pomur region does not change with the proposed amendment. In view of the realisation and assessment of the funds used so far in 2017, it is envisaged that additional resources of €3.49 million will have to be provided through the state budget 2018-2019 for the full implementation of the funds by law. And maybe the other problem areas, just the notice. A call for investments in the other three problem areas was launched on Friday; that is, Maribor, Pokolpje and Zasavje worth €3 million for each of these three areas, and we expect these funds to be effective, so to speak, for business development, for business growth in these three problem areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-22-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u291	Thank you very much. Since the assembly held a general debate on the draft law at its 28th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. The amendments to the amended bill were not tabled, so I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will be held on Wednesday, 24 May, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I hereby conclude the 11th item of the agenda. Colleagues and colleagues, I'm adjourning the 30th meeting of the National Assembly and I'll see you tomorrow at 9:00.
