ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 31st meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members and Members are unable to attend today's meeting: Mrs Andreja Potočnik, Mrs Urška Ban, from 3 p.m. on, Dr. Franc Trček, Mr Roberto Battelli, Mr Ivan Škodnik and Mr Marijan Pojbič. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government to the 1st item of the agenda, the Council of State at the 15th item of the agenda, mag. Duško Godino, Director of the Energy Agency, at the 17th item of the agenda, Dr Mark Novak, President of the Council of Justice, at the 18th item of the agenda and representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I welcome everyone here. Allow me to inform you before the meeting that the National Assembly today from 11 a.m. to 14 p.m. in the lobby of the great hall guests project Together we are larger. It is a project where children and adolescents from all over Slovenia create the largest composite drawing in the world, with the aim of entering the Guinness Book of Records. However, what is particularly valuable about the project is its message that it is possible to achieve more together than each other or that large and challenging goals can also be achieved together. I therefore invite you to join the many who have thus become members of the integration project. We are moving on to the agenda of the 31st meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 9 June 2017, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of an item from the agenda or proposals for an extension of the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There were 81 Members and Members present, 80 votes against, none. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 31st meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving on to one. DOCTOR OF THE DAY, THIS IS ON THE QUESTIONS OF MESSAGES AND MESSAGES With regard to this item on the agenda, I received, within the deadline of business, written applications for 39 questions from the Member States. The order of business shall be laid down in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Mr Karl Erjavec, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mrs Irena Majcen, Minister for Environment and Space, mag. Dejan Židan, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Mag. Ms Vesna Györkös Žnidar, Minister of the Interior and Mrs Andreja Katič, Minister of Defence between 13.30 and 15.30. An e-club provides an overview of the questions sent by the Member States, which were not answered within the time limit. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first four questions will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar. Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec, you have the floor to ask the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Good-bye, everybody! Mr. President of the Government! My question, as I have also announced, concerns the issue of port workers in the port of Kore, who work through so-called port service providers. These IPS workers, as they are told, are not only a method for the extreme exploitation of workers, but also for the exhaustion of the company as such, namely Luke Koper and also for tax evasion and social contributions. Therefore, the operation of the IPS not only harms the company but also the country. Why do I say that? Almost half of these workers in the Kore port are not employed in Luka Koper, but work through these IPSs and these workers have significantly lower wages than those employed in Luka Koper and perform comparable works. That's the first problem. The second problem is that Luka Koper pays these IPS workers around EUR 25 million per year, of which only half is the cost of wages or the cost of employment, while the rest are some unjustified margins of these IPSs. The third problem is that these margins are passed on to further subcontractors, avoiding VAT payments by IPS. It is also worth mentioning that workers working for these operators also do a great deal of overtime, which is not paid as overtime, but as non-taxable allowances. As a result, this action has resulted in a state loss not only of VAT but also of income, of social contributions, and we have been aware of this for 20 years. It was not until last October that an inspection decision was issued, and in January this year that the FURS report, which also officially confirms this situation, was also issued. More. FURS also provides a kind of response to how such a situation can be resolved, and this is by changing the business model of Luke Koper. On the left, we've been pushing for the employment of all of Luka Koper's employees. The Commission has also already proposed to the Government to prevent such disputed practices in the State Investment Management Strategy itself. It is high time for the country to prohibit such exploitation practices and to take action. That's why I'm asking you because you're the only one who can do this and who's responsible for it: Are you even committed to hiring workers working for the IPS at Luka Koper? When will you propose appropriate changes to the strategy? When will the government act against such exploitation practices in state-owned companies, but also in private?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u3	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Miroslav Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u4	Honourable Member, Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec, also the Government is committed to eliminating such exploitation practices. It is indeed a matter of negative, including illegal practices. As you know, it has already been reported to the National Assembly that we have already taken the very first steps in this area. Let me just remind you that FURS has carried out several supervisory activities in the service providers in the Luka Koper area. It is said that there were three checks carried out and black employment carried out by over 100 debtors who carried out port services and various infringements and criminal proceedings were found. On this basis, fines were imposed, in four cases of warnings, in five inspections, tax duties were imposed or VAT identification numbers were withdrawn, preventing further abuse. In this regard, more than EUR 1.3 million of VAT liabilities, further taxes on legal persons' income and taxes on other incomes were also paid. So these were the activities of the FURS. In addition, the Labour Inspectorate carried out an inspection under which the measures were given to both the contracting authority, Luka Koper and the port service provider, and the procedure has not yet been completed and continues in the Administrative Court. The FURS findings, also accepted by the Government, are that port service providers cannot carry out all services for Luka Koper by themselves and therefore conclude contracts with other subcontractors. But these subcontractors, like some other article in the chain, have part-time employees of their own, and partially operate in a chain with the following subcontractors or work in black. As a rule, the second article in the chain no longer has the responsible persons who would be residents of the Republic of Slovenia. Sub-contractors then appear even deeper in the chain, i.e. third and further levels, and there are still further such bad practices that are taking place here. So I agree with you and we are already acting. Therefore, inspections, financial and labour inspection have already carried out the first important measures. It is true that the problem can be solved in different ways or even combined with these ways. In particular, by changing the business model of Luke Koper, Luke Koper employs, to a large extent, the port workers she needs. We're thinking in exactly the same direction here. It is then another possibility for the necessary port workers to employ port service providers who have concluded contracts with Luka Koper, with the provisions on the payment of tax obligations, or for port service providers to ensure that the conditions under the Labour Market Regulation Act are met. It is certainly very important that we have already informed the Slovenian State Holding which is the competent body for these matters, to draw attention to these findings that I have presented, including Luka Koper, because here we see that the practice, work, business model, is unoptimal and that also in the port of Koper, measures are taken to prevent such negative practices so as to ensure compliance with the normative environment, transparent implementation of the basic activity in such a way that the chain of undertakings will no longer be possible. It is therefore, as you have rightly found, a problem of infringement or abuse of legislation. That's why, as I said, inspections are already underway. We expect SDH to do its job as well. We will continue to act in similar ways both in Luka Koper and in other cases of state-owned enterprises. That's what the inspectors are responsible for. Here I cannot represent all measures in all state-owned enterprises, but the principle is clear – where irregularities occur, we must act decisively, punish the offender and establish business practices. If we get convincing expert explanations that, as I said, we need to change the business model, we will support that. However, the fact that this moment is also important what the Slovenian State Holding will do. If I finish. For a long time now, we have not only been keeping an eye on the situation, but we are also taking action. This has been reported to the National Assembly. As you also note, it is absolutely important for us in the Government to prevent these negative practices, this abuse of workers, this exploitative attitude and, in fact, to establish a legal and appropriate state with some of the changes I have mentioned.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u5	Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec, you have the floor to request an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u6	Yeah, of course I'm not entirely satisfied. What you, the President, have said is, in a way, what you say all the time to stand up for, so you stand behind the rights of workers and so on. The rest was a summary of what FURS findings and labour inspections were as different alternatives. My question was very clear. What will the government do? Because you're the one who's responsible. I don't think there are enough marks on this point on your Twitter to work together, but I think there are some concrete results. We stand firm in the position that the only job in Luka Cope is to save the one that is right. You can't take responsibility for SDH here. Finally, both the governance strategy and the annual management plan endorsed by the Government are fundamental documents on how SDH will work. My question, once again, is very direct: Will the change of the annual management plan or management strategy also affect the transformation of SDH into at least state-owned business models? Last but not least, we can also recall the scarves that take place in the ministries because the employees are outsourced cleaning services that do not pay contributions. It's a broader question, a broader problem that isn't just connected to Luka Koper. That's one. Drugs: When will this happen? I want a clear answer as to what your plan is, not what the different possible scenarios are, what SDH will do. It's your responsibility. Now is the time for you to show what you will do in this term, there is no longer much for workers, because so far you have shown less. This is an excellent opportunity for you to put these passwords into concrete action.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u7	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u8	Thank you very much. So, what are we gonna do? First, let me repeat that we're already working. I am talking about the financial administration and its actions, if I am talking about an inspection for work and its actions, but I have not mentioned the criminals who are investigating individual cases and we can expect complaints, then these are government measures. Measures in the sense of control and in the sense of sanctioning infringements. That's part of it. Here I think we are very clear in other cases where suspicions or suspicions have arisen. Let's go, investigate and sanction. However, you are right, then it is also necessary to change some strategies, business models, etc. if better practices cannot be achieved on the basis of existing legislation or strategy. But I repeat, it is now necessary to find out here – and therefore we also expect the SDH opinion, whether the existing strategy does not allow these practices to be eliminated. Because if someone breaks the law, it won't help if we change the law. It is easy to ensure that the law is respected. That is why we must now get an expert opinion first, very clearly whether the strategy needs to be changed. If changing the strategy is the only way to achieve some positive effects, then the government will do so as soon as it receives this report, as soon as possible. However, if it is found that this can be done better, more effectively, by means of measures based on the current strategy, then we expect that this will be done on the basis of SDH decisions in the port of Koper itself and elsewhere. Absolutely the government doesn't run away from responsibility. We are working for employment, for better working conditions, against such abuses, and here I think we have already proven this many times and we will continue to do so in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u9	Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to discuss the response to the next meeting of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u10	Yes, of course, I insist that this is a pressing issue to be resolved and perhaps a broader debate to be held. At the end of the government's presidency, the inspection has some problems, so we can't take responsibility for it. That is why we have also proposed in the United Left an amendment to the Labour Inspection Act, which would grant certain powers to work inspection, which would also make it easier to resolve such problems. But we know they have more than their hands tied now. The government also rejected or considered our novel inappropriate and, of course, followed the fall on the committee. But that's another thing. The point is, however, that the inspection found that such practices involved numerous infringements, the exploitation of workers, the exhaustion of a state-owned enterprise, in this case Luke Koper, but also others, and the avoidance of paying taxes and contributions. Now the political class has practically allowed this model for 20 years. Nothing happened at that time. It is also sometimes used, and I also have this feeling now, this IPS as some excuse to create certain personnel exchanges in the company itself and then forget about the workers very quickly. In the United Left, we won't agree to that. In fact, this situation means that you also recognize that when you are not clearly committed to employment, that we have second-class employees and first-class employees, that we have in some way ordinary and second-class workers. I therefore asked you whether you are thinking about this measure, which we are proposing, so that these workers in the IPS will be employed in the company itself, in Luka Koper, in general in state companies, to prevent outsourcing, which is one of such forms of exploitation mainly of workers and that the public administration also employs previously mentioned cleaners, as well as security guards and all other workers who carry out support activities. Judging from this answer, I worry that nothing significant will happen, just as it did not happen in Janšev, Pahorje, or the Brother’s Government. That is why I think that we need to have a broader debate on this and also to put maximum pressure on such unfair and exploitative practices to be definitively abolished.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u11	Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 20 June 2017, in the framework of the votes. Mrs Ludmila Novak, you have the floor to ask the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u12	Thank you for your word. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! On 8 June, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia decided to stop the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank. The decision of the Government is clearly contrary to the 2013 commitment, when Slovenia committed itself to sell almost a quarter of the shares of the New Ljubljana Bank. However, NLB’s sales are not only necessary because of the decision, but mainly because of the negative effects of State banking on the Slovenian budget and the banking system. A good example of this is the multibillion-dollar recapitalisation of NLB in recent years, as well as the recent discovery of a cash laundering case worth about a billion dollars. All of this, in our firm belief, would not have happened if the NLB were privately owned. Dear Prime Minister, I'm interested in: How much has the State jointly invested in NLB's rehabilitation? How much was the country cost of the procedures and experts preparing the last sale? In what way will you take responsibility for the negative consequences of the decision to suspend the sale of NLB? In your opinion, what price should it be to actually sell this bank?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u13	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u14	Thank you, honourable Ambassador Ludmila Novak, for your question. As you know, the government has been following the objective of privatising banks to obtain a purchase that will, as far as possible, represent the reimbursement of the tax assets used as State aid to these banks in 2013 and 2014. This was not achieved in some way in this case, so, as you know, on 8 June 2017 the Government decided as SDH Assembly not to agree with the minimum offer price for NLB and the range of the offer price for NLB. We have found that the issue of transferred foreign exchange deposits in Croatia is an external objective situation which, in the event of other risks arising from the sale process, simply prevents the execution of the sales procedure. We have therefore instructed the Minister of Finance to make this known to the European Commission and in cooperation with other European Commission departments and competent services to explore possible alternatives. Consultations with the competent professional services of the European Commission are already under way. I am aware of the importance of respecting the commitments made to the European Commission in 2013. But we can't, just to sell the bank, agree to harm our taxpayers again. I just can't let that happen. This issue of foreign exchange deposits in Croatia is such a risk that these risks, and perhaps some of them could easily occur. I will not allow our taxpayers to again bear the burden of bad sales, so to speak, the New Ljubljana Banks, so that again our people will be harmed because we have made another mistake now. So I believe that further intensive negotiations will find a solution that will allow the preservation of the New Ljubljana Bank as a strong regional bank in Southeast Europe. With regard to the amount of recapitalisations carried out so far, let me say that the NLB State has recapitalised EUR 250 million in 2011, EUR 383 million in 2012 and EUR 551 million in 2013. Let me also say that, with regard to the costs of the process so far, it is not possible to make a final assessment, because this final assessment will only be possible after a period of time, but, according to SDH information, the actual costs incurred by SDH in relation to the sale process are estimated at around EUR 1 million without VAT, and in the event of a successful sale process, these costs would amount to around EUR 6 million without VAT. Let me also say that I do not see the negative consequences of our decision not to sell the New Ljubljana Bank at this price. It would be negative if we did so, as I explained earlier, if we sold this bank so cheaply and thereby caused some additional risks to our taxpayers. That is why I think that the decision of the Government has been correct, but of course we are now in intensive discussions with the European Commission to reach such alternative decisions as to keep the bank alive, that it is successful, that it is also a regional factor. That they will be such supportive solutions and that they will not weaken the operation of this bank. That's something we're going to work very hard on. If I finish, let me say again that the government's decision has been considered. I do not want and could not allow our taxpayers to be harmed again, so we decided that at this price the bank could not be sold at such risks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u15	Mrs. Ludmila Novak, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u16	Dear Mr President of the Government, our taxpayers and all of us have been harmed many times by state ownership in the NLB. You didn't want to do any more damage to the taxpayers. You have already harmed them by deciding to maintain the country more than 25% of the state's share and that you have decided to sell the bank in pieces. Why didn't you choose a strategic buyer to continue developing this bank? I think you sold it with a fig in your pocket. And why don't you, Mr President of the Government, talk to the European Commission, but only the Minister of Finance? What do our people have to do with such a bank if we have to keep covering the bank's hole and every citizen for this bank has already had to cover more than 2,000 euros. So more than €2,000 each citizen for foreign loans. Sanction cost us 2.7 billion. Then transfer of bad claims to the DUTB to the value of 2.3 billion. So we put 5,000 million taxpayers' money into this bank. Unfortunately, you're selling it in time trouble, and we know the deadline expires on December 31st. This will make the fall deadline even worse. So you've already damaged taxpayers with this kind of sale.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u17	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Miroslav Cerar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u18	It is true that our taxpayers, all of us, have been injured many times in the past. But that's definitely not something I'd do. This has happened in previous times. This was also one of the reasons why SMC entered politics because it wanted this to not happen in the future. Let me make it very clear that I agree that these injuries were great. I'd say catastrophic for our country. All these bad practices, too. But from now on, we must be careful not to make similar or other mistakes so that we do not harm taxpayers again. When you said whether we are talking to the European Commission, I myself have spoken to the President of the European Commission, Mr Juncker, on this subject, who has expressed a great understanding of our attitude towards this topic, because he understands the problem of the transferred roles of Croatian foreign currency savers. It understands that this is a special situation that is not easily available in other countries in similar sales. The Minister is also in constant contact with colleague Vestager, European Commissioner, and professional services also operate at their level. So at all levels, we are talking to the European Commission, which expresses understanding of this issue, because it understands that we are in a special situation. I therefore hope for some constructive communication, some constructive negotiation, in which we must achieve that this bank can live on as some regionally active one. That we would somehow have a system bank that would be in our mutual advantage. That's the goal I'm following. Now I can't fix this thing 10 or 15 years ago. But I can do everything I can, and we are doing this together with the government, all of us, so that bad practice does not occur and that we will drive this bank in some way successfully forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u19	Mrs Ludmila Novak, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to discuss the response to the next meeting of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u20	Dear President of the Government, the Rules of Procedure allow me to propose a debate at the next meeting on the President's response, with which I was not satisfied. So you're saying you wouldn't hurt taxpayers again, but you're making the same mistakes as past governments that didn't sell a bank that keeps bringing a bank hole. We also know that the economy is not satisfied with the way credit is granted and prefers to go to other banks. Why do we have a bank that taxpayers need to borrow with money, and the government has thrown 7 million euros out of the window for this sale, for experts? I submit that we will never get a higher price for the bank from now on, as 562 million euros or 0.75 times the book value were offered. I propose that the National Assembly discuss this subject at its next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u21	Mrs Ljudmila Novak, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 20 June 2017, in the framework of the votes. Mr. Franc Laj, you have the floor to ask the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Miroslav Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u22	Mr President, thank you for the floor. All together, a very nice greeting! Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! Due to the increasing negative environmental impacts, the country faced a very difficult challenge to ensure to all citizens the constitutional right to a healthy living environment, as enshrined in Article 72 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. In addition, it is stated that the State provides for a healthy living environment and lays down conditions and ways to carry out economic and other activities. We believe that the state and state institutions have failed to comply with at least these constitutional provisions, or that the case of Kamis Kamis should not have happened. We are certainly wondering how many such establishments we have that would potentially endanger the constitutional right to a healthy living environment for a large number of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. One such potentially dangerous plant represented Lafarge in the Rippers. Let's remember. There are many more potentially dangerous establishments, but especially in the case of Lafarg, the competent service has been in some way unwilling to say so. The following very acute example is certainly a Lendu biogas plant that potentially threatens more than 5,000 people. Also, the Prime Minister of the Government, commend yourself on many occasions with Slovenia as a green tourist destination, which represents great opportunities for the development of tourism. I want to know: What are you or will you do to protect people and their constitutional rights, as well as the economic interests of the regions and the various tourist destinations that are located near potentially endangered establishments? Can you ensure the functioning of a rule of law that will not be subject to the interests of brutal capital greed but will be the protection of people, citizens also on the outskirts of the country where this biogas plant operates? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u23	The President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u24	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador Franz Ly. The assessment that there is no system in place in Slovenia to ensure a healthy living environment is, of course, not true. Nor does it hold the obvious to favour capital against the protection of people and the environment. The fact is that we are pursuing them, the government is striving to pursue sustainable and socially responsible development in accordance with the Coalition Treaty. And we're not giving up on that. It is true, however, that there are 210 potentially dangerous plants in Slovenia and these establishments are known. Their list has been made public. These establishments, as debtors, must obtain an environmental permit for their operations. All such environmental permits issued are published in a specific register of environmental protection on the website of the Ministry of Environment and Space. In order to calculate the risk assessment of such facilities, the Environmental and Nature Inspection uses a specific software tool, IRAM Integrated Risk Assessment Method), which includes as many as 8 criteria for the calculation of the risk assessment. The environmental and nature inspection shall carry out regular and extraordinary inspections of IED facilities. Inspections shall verify the provisions of environmental permits and compliance with applicable legislation. Each review shall draw up a report and draw conclusions as to whether further action is necessary when it comes to the compliance of the establishment with the conditions of authorisation. Within three months of the review, access to the final inspection report shall also be made available to the public. The planning of regular inspections shall also take into account the provisions of Directive 2010/75 of the European Union on industrial emissions, which are also transferred to our legal order and are not different from the planning and implementation of inspections elsewhere in Europe. However, emergency controls shall be carried out on the basis of applications and notifications by other authorities, for example, the Arso inspection shall inform the inspection of cases where, on the basis of the analyses of the annual reports, it finds any shortcomings. So that activities take place here, the rules are and in fact we are trying to ensure as much as possible that there are no unauthorised interventions in the environment. When it comes to loading the environment with a smell, however, the legislation deals most fully with smells from composters and biogas plants, which, in addition to fertilisation, represent the largest source of complaints. This is about specific conditions as to how these compost and biogas plants are planned, about a certain distance from residential and other areas, about certain technical measures and also those requirements, and these measures are being verified in the issue of licences. There is still no regulation in Slovenian legislation establishing a comprehensive system to control the burden of external air with inadequate smell and would also include methodologies to detect and monitor unpleasant smells and to determine appropriate limit values. There are many reasons. The assessment of these unpleasant smells differs significantly from the evaluation of external air pollution by chemical substances. Quantitative assessment of the effects of unpleasant odors in the environment is very complex and is generally not uniform. The problem is also the absence of uniform legislation at EU level. However, we are trying to settle matters here, so the Ministry of Environment and Space has recently concluded a contract with a consortium in which colleges are also involved in order to establish a system in Slovenia to control the external air burden with an unpleasant smell. Since measurements to provide guidance for the selection of detection and monitoring methodology for unpleasant smells in the outdoor air take longer, it is envisaged that the proposal will be prepared by 2018. This will also allow us to adopt regulations to regulate the situation here. However, a catastrophic situation can happen in any country, as it did in the case of Kemis. As you know, we have responded to this and we are also preparing measures to respond to such situations in the future in a more organised manner. The fact is that this is a case that only proves how important these environmental regulations are, you say, to implement them, and that is why we will do what we are doing in the future, so that we will monitor the situation extremely closely in all these areas and carry out checks and controls. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u25	Mr. Franz Lai, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u26	Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! I partially agree with you, but tell us how people should live near these plants, from which the unbearable stench spreads, which is practically already on the edge so that they can live there, has deteriorated the living conditions. That's one. This means that if the situation does not change quickly, it will happen, unfortunately I must say that people will have to leave their homes. I don't think anyone wants to, but it's impossible to live there. It is virtually impossible to wait until 2018. I believe that if the country issued an environmental permit, environmental impact studies had to be produced. These studies could by no means be based on these current emissions. This means that there is certainly only one solution: that everything is done in this direction, that these emissions are reduced to a bearable level and that constitutional rights are respected for all these people. It is not acceptable, however, that this agony has been taking place since 2012. There have been many reports of competent inspection services, but the situation has only worsened from day to day. What is behind this, or why, such response or lack of response from the competent services? Or is there really something wrong with the environmental permit issued?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u27	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u28	Thank you very much. In the case of Biogasrna Lendava, if we are talking about this case, which is very significant, I agree with you that the situation is unsustainable. It is therefore necessary to act and therefore to take action. As you know, the environmental inspection has already introduced an inspection procedure in May 2017 on the basis of applications. The thing, you say, has been going on since 2012. It's a really long time, but at least now we're taking action. In the framework of the control, irregularities have been identified following an environmental permit for waste treatment. It shall be prohibited to take over mud, to dispose of municipal waste water into the device, to ensure proper processing of data. The inspection process has not been completed here. An infringement procedure has also been introduced to establish environmental permits and a regulation on the dispatch of waste across borders. Certain environmental and nature inspection measures will at least partially help to reduce the smell from this biogas plant. So I believe that these procedures will help in this particular case and probably in some others. However, it is a fact that this will have to be resolved systematically once we have these expert evaluations on how to do this properly. And that will be soon. However, I hope that this matter will be resolved in the coming weeks and months when it comes to Biogasrna Lendava. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u29	Mr Franc Laj, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to discuss the response to the next meeting of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u30	I think that this issue is extremely pressing as it concerns the constitutional rights of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Dear Prime Minister, you said systemic solutions were needed. I fully agree, and therefore I think that this topic deserves a broader debate in the National Assembly, because it may also help to make it easier to adopt and prepare all these legal system solutions in a qualitative manner. I believe that this is also of strategic importance for the country if it takes care of citizens' constitutional rights for the first time and for the second time for a healthy environment, so that Slovenia can remain a green tourist destination in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u31	Mr Franc Laj, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 20 June 2017, in the framework of the votes. Mr Jan Škoberne has the floor to ask the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the House! Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, distinguished ministerial assembly, colleagues and colleagues! Slovenia has already recorded economic growth in the third year. Our economy is even so effective that it is the second time this year that both Banka Slovenije and the international institution, Umar, are repairing our growth forecast. Therefore, the reasons can be found in at least three key moments. The first was fiscal consolidation, which we carried out in the coalition government at the time it was led by Mrs Alenka Bratušek. Another important factor is the substantial increase in industrial subtraction of our key export partners. And in the third part of, of course, as a result, the increased demand for households and also our economy. What is crucial, if we want to maintain and strengthen this growth, is the success of drawing on European funds, and of course of all other resources available to us. This year, we are thus entering the almost final year of the first half of the financial perspective, which is crucial for Slovenia in particular from this point of view, that in the year of evaluation it will be necessary to determine whether we have drawn enough or have been sufficiently effective and, in so doing, to respond appropriately if we come to the grey field of what we call the possibility that, because of the failure to draw, the European Commission can even reduce our access to funds for the second half of the perspective. Why do I ask you that? Because it is important that today, Mr President, we hear where we are today and that you calm us down, that we will have the opportunity to draw on our full resources in the coming period, because last year we have drawn such a time from the European funds, or that we have been given the poor 600 million euro, that is, 19% of the available money, with only 12% contractually linked to it, and the payments made from the state budget under this heading were 0.7% last June. In the light of the need to respond appropriately if these numbers have not changed, I believe that they are essential, I ask you, quite simply: Your Honor, Mr. President, where are we today? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u33	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u34	Mr Jan Škoberne, thank you for the question. When we started working in this government, the situation in this area was, in fact, bad or bad. For the 2007-2013 programming period, Slovenia was threatened with the loss of funds from this programming period, as almost a billion and a half of the total available €4 billion and €100 million remained unspent. The most critical was the cohesion fund situation, where almost a billion out of 1.5 billion had not been absorbed. At that time we held the 19th place among the 28 members, and the funds of this period could be drawn up by the end of 2015. That's what we paid full attention to at the time. The government's first measures were such that we went from 19th place to 4th place and actually absorbed almost all of these funds. So we've been very successful at this. Of course, we have also taken immediate action in the area of the current programming period 2014-2020. Let me say that no software documents were agreed upon at the time of taking over. The implementation system has not been set up at all, but it has been accredited, which is a condition for drawing funds from the European Union budget. The information system supporting the implementation of cohesion policy has been outdated. I do not think that it has been updated for 11 years and has not been sufficient to meet the requirements laid down by the European Union for the new programming period. For this reason, we had to ensure first the institutional and human stability of the system. What did we do? Now we have agreed software documents, we have a partnership agreement, we have an operational programme. The regulatory framework for implementation is fully established and the implementation system is also adequately accredited, and the new information system is now sufficient for all e-cohesion criteria. Let me point out that more than one third of all funds made available during this programming period have already been approved. 213 decisions were taken to support the amount of over €1 billion. Of course, every three months in the Government, we examine in detail the situation in this area, in the field of the implementation of cohesion policy, and we are also familiar with the National Assembly. As far as the delays are concerned, you're right here, and I'm not satisfied with that, so I'm pushing for them to be eliminated. These delays occur to the greatest extent in individual projects financed mainly within the Ministry of Environment and Space. These delays are due to significantly more complex procedures prescribed by the European Union compared to the previous period. Here we are faced with a new situation caused by the European Union. It is also true that the implementation of cohesion policy in the second half of May had to be suspended due to the transition from the old to the new information system. This one came to life on June 1st this year. The transition to this system has been carefully planned and implemented, but this has also led to delays and we are now paying special attention and resolving matters. We certainly have an effective, good system now. I think we are going in the right direction here, but it is clear that we need to be even more effective in the coming months to address these delays that I have mentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u35	Mr. Jan Škoberne, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr President. I believe you, and I'm happy, but I'd like to do it again. Last year, 19% were allocated, 12% contractually bound, 0.7% divided from possible. The secretary is here today, and we can probably get numbers. It would be important for this assembly to know where we are in terms of fund-raising. As for the minor delays, however, I fear that it is not only the Ministry of the Environment and that it is necessary to react. Here I have before me a letter from the youth organisations of the Ministry of Education saying that "the resolution of claims lasts unreasonablely long. We have not received any funds for 2017, despite the fact that we stick to the terms and deadlines. Unfortunately, the opposite is not true for the country.” And then again, "I believe you know that in the event of non-payment of wages due to non-liquidity in a tax offence following the last amendment of the Penal Code, but also because of the violation of social rights, we can be prosecuted under this law." So the situation worries me if today the only real information I get is that about a third is exhausted. Last year's numbers are on the table, you get the letters, we get them. However, we are all afraid, as is the case with territorial and cross-border cooperation, where the problem at the ILO is said to be that the amount of resources available to us will go elsewhere, to countries that draw better. I am absolutely aware that you are doing everything in your power, but given the answer you gave me, I fear they have given you the right numbers. As we say, the numbers for last year are on the palm of your hand, and we need them for this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u37	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u38	Yeah, just for a little while. As you yourself said, these questions will be answered in more detail by the competent minister. The fact is, I trust these numbers because I got them from the Ministry or the Minister and her office. The fact is, delays are like we said. We are here to try to eliminate them as soon as possible. The fact is, even compared to other countries, we are here at about the same level as I am informed. Of course, we can't be satisfied and say, that's it now. We have to work, work to achieve the results that we did at the beginning of the work of this government when we concluded the matter from the perspective of the previous perspective. In this way, I can only ensure that I am able to monitor as much as possible the way these things are going. But you will also be informed in the National Assembly. I believe we'll be successful here, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u39	I thank the Prime Minister for his answers. In accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we turn to the questions raised at the 30th meeting of the National Assembly. First, the Minister of Education, Science, Sport and Youth, Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič, will answer the question of Ms Suzanne Lepi Šimenko regarding public calls for co-financing of sports infrastructure.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u40	The question was raised from the point of view of sports infrastructure and the publication of tenders. A similar question was also raised by the Magi. Fox. Let me explain that we are at the Ministry this year on the basis of available resources, which were also based on not only discussions, but also on an open discussion on [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u41	Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u42	The Committee on Education, Science and Sport has been increased, for 2017 and 2018, to call for sport infrastructure or co-financing of investments in renovations or new facilities in two parts. [[…]] The first set concerns co-financing of costs incurred in the renovation of sports floors in sports halls. In fact, after the analysis we did last year, there was a lot of need for this type. The full need for all co-financing or financing in sport infrastructure by municipalities is worth €900 million. We have therefore gradually proposed the implementation of such investments in two steps. The first step in this call for the co-financing of smaller investments, i.e. investment values of up to €60,000, means that it is co-financed by the call for approximately €42 000 for the selected investment, which must meet all the competitive conditions or criteria. At the same time, under number 2, co-financing of construction costs and modernisation of public covered and other uncovered sports facilities amounting to EUR 448 000 is part of the overall renovation. So the condition is that it is a project that is already ready, which has adequate co-financing by local communities and whose investment value cannot be less than a million and a half euros. Why the layout in two content sets? In view of the record of the situation and the voluminous desires that were actually presented by the local communities, we have also found that last year's call for proposals should maximise the use of these funds to the maximum possible number of projects in such a way that these projects are such as to be funded with a view to being able to be implemented as quickly as possible. In particular, the State is helping in that area and those communities and projects where it is in fact necessary to complete the final implementation, but not most of these resources, precisely to maximise the use of these funds in a way that is accessible to as many beneficiaries as possible. It is true that, according to the wishes given, the resources are still very limited, but for a long time this is the first wider and larger infrastructure call in the area of sport infrastructure, for which I also thank Parliament that it has approved an increase in funding in this area. What is the connectivity of 2017 and 2018? In order to increase the scope of these funds, it can therefore increase overall funding. This is also allowed in accordance with ZIPRS or the way in which these funds are used.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u43	Mrs. Susana beautiful Šimenka, you have the floor to request a supplement to the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, in fact, I have not received a complete answer to my questions. It is not a problem with the content of this invitation and what it is intended for. However, it is important that, on the one hand, this should be a matter for calls to be made by local communities that own these public sports facilities and, on the other hand, the smaller municipalities are already excluded from this. Why do I say that? Because, in particular, the investment should not be less than €1.5 million for the renovation of sports facilities, it says on the scales themselves and, on the other hand, those investments that are of higher value are better scored in the points. It means it's kind of hard to get along. If we understand the true meaning of these European funds, it should initially and mainly be intended for those areas which are less developed. Sadly, though, we have more and fewer congregations there, and these resources are becoming increasingly difficult to reach. However, if we look at the amounts available, we know that this is a very small amount of those who will actually be eligible in the end. 5 will receive them for sports facilities and 12 will receive them for the rehabilitation of these sports floors in 2017. Dear Minister: Why are you setting the criteria in the manner set out in this invitation to tender? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u45	Minister of Education, Science, Sport and Youth Dr. Maja Makovec Brenčič, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u46	If I understand you correctly, you have mentioned that this is a matter of European funding. It's not working. This is certainly not about European funds! This is a national budget approved by this Parliament, and I think it is also by your vote. Come in. It is 13 facilities co-financed at €41 000 900, almost €42 000, if this investment totals €60,000, which means that we can make a strong contribution to the small municipalities in particular in the renovation of the facilities that are needed for immediate repairs. In particular, facilities in small municipalities or medium-sized municipalities have been exposed to the situation, where the issue of sports floors is particularly pronounced in relation to the length or duration of use of the facility. Therefore, it was also intended to spend resources to go to as many local communities as possible in a way that would even make a very good contribution to the project. Let's say it's worth $60,000. But if it's more, it's funded by the local community itself. Let me also point out that in current funding, the highest share of co-financing was usually up to 50% by the State, I am talking about the national budget. In most cases these co-financing rates were much lower, 20%, 30%, and, of course, also depending on the availability of funds. In view of the fact that we have a very large section of the situation, both the desire and the high expectations, it is very important that, together with you in Parliament, we achieve that, systematically, even on certain scales, at least a few facilities are financed each year in a way that is sufficient either for small, medium-sized, large local communities. Why? The needs are very different. The investment modality of individual communities is very different. Some have focused more on other forms and other types of infrastructure in the past perspectives. For the first time in a long time, with your help, we have prepared and prepared this call, and last year, at the rate of half a million euros, it was largely a good co-financing where the municipalities had already prepared projects and needed only to complement this funding. Thus, we have already carried out a number of such projects in the past year, and the municipalities have reported that they are, of course, mainly grateful in order to be able to complete certain projects. Is the means enough? I'm sure you don't. We would like more and more assistance from the funding of various types of sports infrastructures and facilities.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u47	Now the Minister of Education, Science, Sport and Youth, Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič will answer the question of mag. Bojane Muršič on the role of temporary employment in education and education.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u48	The issue is from the point of view of the conclusion of fixed-term contracts in education and education, the purpose of which is to apply for the duration of the course or not for the whole school year. Under the fixed-term employment contract, this decision is exceptionally, therefore, no rule, a more exceptional exception and only for the reasons set out in Article 54 of the Labour Relations Act and also in the ZOFVI, in Article 109, paragraphs 6 and 7, of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education. The most common reasons for these forms of teaching resolution are, in particular, the conclusion for a certain period of time when it comes to the replacement of a temporary absent worker. This can often occur during a school year for a variety of objective reasons, and the principal or management must react in a way that teaches smoothly, or it is also a temporary increase in the amount of work. That's two key reasons. At the same time, a contract may be concluded even with a candidate who does not meet the relevant conditions, but only if no one else is invited or there is no other option, but it is objectively essential that the teaching be carried out further or any activity in the school, which is intended to achieve the learning objectives in order to follow the relevant curriculum. However, it is also possible that temporary employment is carried out in accordance with both laws when it comes to the projected reduction in enrolment rates, this is currently not at primary school, but after some time in secondary school, this occurs, or to the modification of existing programmes, it may also be a prerequisite for overcoming a certain period for the full implementation of a specific programme in education and education. It is very important that these similar jobs are then also linked to the termination of the contract itself, in accordance with the reasons for which they have also been concluded, for example, if it is a temporary replacement or a temporary implementation of a part of the programme, when it is being renewed, updated, applied to a new one. This means that the reason for the interruption must also be justified and clear in accordance with the contract concluded. As far as project employment is concerned, this may also be part of the project, and these relate to the criteria and conditions of the projects. This is probably what you had in mind, for example, when we talk about projects, let's strengthen the school when we talk about temporary employment projects, but within the framework of the duration of the project. This is once again a decision of the school itself, and finally a decision on how this associate or co-worker can also be placed in further employment if there is evidence of this need either in primary school or in secondary school.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u49	Mag. Bojana Muršič, you have the floor to request an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Minister for your answer. It is true, as you stated, that this is a matter of legal provisions in accordance with the Labour Relations Act and the Education Financing Act. I believe that the directors of these units are also following. However, I would like to point out that in the past such a play has taken place. Above all, I am talking about these employees who help children with special needs. These have a decision at school for 8 or 9 years of education. This employment stops for 10 months and then restarts with September 1st for the same person, a specific person. This has happened in the past, as I said. At that time, a circular was issued by the Ministry, and then there was no more of it. But today we note that this is happening again, as Mr Strukelj also points out. I understand that there is savings in the public sector and that directors are somehow obliged to do so within that scope, but there is a problem here. Above all, the problem is the use of a proportional part of the leave, then it is a post-employment allowance. And there's a lot of trouble. This would also raise the question of what would happen if such a system were used and played by parents who have children in kindergarten and would also be expelled or expelled from kindergarten during summer vacations and then re-entered on September 1st. I don't think it's fair here either. Minister, I appeal to you once again to think this way and to help these employees who are actually young people entering the work process so that this does not happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u51	Minister of Education, Science, Sport and Youth Dr. Maja Makovec Brenčič, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u52	Thank you very much. In this area, we have been in contact with both directors and union trustees, or representatives within schools, who also sometimes point out the situation that you have just highlighted. However, let me say that the area of special needs is a particular area, because it is also really linked to decisions made by children, and this also brings together the accompanying work, linking the professional work and the professional services. It is true, however, that during this time, especially through the Association of Directors, our meetings with them, we encourage in particular the management and organisation of teaching in a way that tries to anticipate not only for the whole school year but for the whole calendar year. At the same time, problems also arise because of the decision-making itself, as there are many delays in the decision-making, when procedural, when and when fully substantively conditioned, and it is difficult to predict the extent to which all those professional colleagues and support, such as in the field of specific needs, are needed on September 1st. In this part, however, we understand the flexibility of school management or school principals to provide appropriate solutions, stressing that this is important and necessary for children. In such situations, however, we need to be flexible, and this is also legally permissible, but I agree with you, and we must not use this instrument for the wrong purpose.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u53	Ms Maja Makovec Brenčič, Minister of Education, Science, Sport and Youth, will now answer Mr Tomaž Lisc's question on sports infrastructure.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u54	Now I can repeat everything that has already been said in the first question. So there are two sets signed this year. Mr Lisec also participated in the Committee on Education, Science and Sport itself, where the initiative was given precisely to increase funds for 2018. We have now connected funds for 2018 and 2017 in a way that we have already published two sets, i.e. for smaller investment projects and for larger investment projects. Demands, of course, are enormous. There are limited resources in terms of surface and also quality infrastructure desires. The municipalities are also very different in their approach to the preparation of projects, but I think it is right, and I reiterate this that we will also insist in this period of budgetary coordination that continued financing in the field of sport infrastructure be provided again, as this is one of the areas which has also been dedicated to investment in particular over the last period. During the period of cohesion resources, especially the past perspectives, the municipalities have made very different use of these funds, some for other types of infrastructure, less for sport infrastructure, and we now know that there are no funds or entitlements for this in this cohesion period. This is why it is particularly important, and I can say that we finance sustainable and systematicly and help to co-finance local communities with sports infrastructure. We know that there are quite a few so-called white foxes, where there have been no investment for many years and where the municipalities themselves have either failed or have not made up their minds to do so, so it is also right to look at the next decade and try to ensure not only to smaller but to all municipalities that they will have the opportunity to obtain national funding when preparing good projects and competing projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u55	Mr. Tomaž Lisec, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u56	Thank you, Your Honor. You probably know that at your ministry there is a list of year's wishes and needs, I think 2015, where local communities wanted to get €900 million from the country in the coming years for sports infrastructure. At the request of the SDS, we had our amendments to the budget and then, as you yourself said, you provided an additional EUR 2 million more for 2017 and 2018. That is why it was painful to find that, despite the increase in the budget for 2017 and 2018, the call for proposals is worth 2.7 million. Dear Minister, no offense, but I personally expected that at least one zero in the back would be more than 2.7 million. Why am I talking fights? All those of us in the local community who were ever around when we were doing projects for sports halls, for what swimming pools, for stadiums and similar things, we know what construction prices are. Here it says 2,240 thousand, 200 million, and 448 thousand euros for one, in short, 5 projects. I want to know: Why are such criteria and criteria? Why are there so few funds, or why are there no more funds in these two million? Whether it is already known which five projects will be selected and who are members of this call for proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u57	Minister of Education, Science, Sport and Youth, Dr. Maja Makovec Brenčič, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u58	Thank you very much. I think that everyone would like another zero or more, given that the wishes that came and were transmitted by the municipalities, the local communities at the end of 2015 and the beginning of 2016 were really great. In fact, it is almost that our entire budget, more than a good half, is 70% of the entire budget, so not just the sports sector. What I would like to emphasise is not yet concluded. The proceedings are still pending. That is why I cannot provide any information. The Commission shall be established in accordance with the tendering procedures. As far as the invitation to tender is concerned, the relevant services have also been reviewed and, above all, the method of design was the same as I have previously stressed that they would maximize these limited resources in a way that we can relatively quickly, while helping to complete those projects that the municipalities have actually prepared before or during the opening of the call itself and information on this. What I think is very important, and once again, I stress that we are supplementing these resources every year and that we are systematically strengthening calls in the field of sport infrastructure every year. The fact that we did not draw on cohesion resources for sports infrastructure in the vast majority of Slovenia is a fact. We pumped it for other purposes. Now these sources are gone. Therefore, it is so important that the country gradually takes steps to complement all that has been lacking in the last period. But we can't do this overnight. You know that we are fighting for every euro, that fiscal rule is also the one that ensures and must also ensure the implementation of the fiscal balance. But inside what we can do, we want to use every euro to complement those municipalities that are also the most prepared, who are most competitively meeting the already defined conditions in the tender. Let us say that in this way we count that we will restore as much as possible in square terms as possible and that this is one of those key criteria, which also follows the national sport programme, that we do not take it step by step, at least not in the last period as the national sport programme itself has foreseen.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u59	Mr Tomaž Lisec, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to discuss the response to the next meeting of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u60	Thank you. I would like, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to hold a discussion at the next meeting on the issue of sport infrastructure. As the Minister herself said, for 900 million needs of local communities, and given that it was a short time, I believe that these needs are even more, and if we say they are a little overblown, this number will be 900 million. That is why I would like to hold a debate, because, if we know that this is how the Sport Foundation and the Ministry of Education in 2017 and 2018 together have allocated a good 5 million funding for sport infrastructure, we are talking about the amount of one small football field with its respective premises. So we know how little we're talking about. And if, on the other hand, we know that the average age of sports facilities in the Republic of Slovenia is 37 and 38 years, much more than on the Education Committee itself, where we have already held a similar debate, a similar debate is necessary within all the parliamentary groups in this room to find out how, even without European funds, these funds can be obtained so that the municipality does not wait two years for the call, and then we will find that only five chosen ones will receive the funds. Since the date of the opening of the applications has already been, it may not be wrong to look at whether the right criteria or the right criteria have been chosen or whether the tendering commission has done its task to the fullest extent and to find out which 5 of those lucky people who paid the ticket in this call have been successful and have also received funds in this call. In short, the arguments why a debate on the state and, above all, on the future of sports infrastructure in the Republic of Slovenia are more than sufficient and the National Assembly is the right place to discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u61	Mr Tomaž Lisec, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 20 June 2017, in the framework of the votes. Now the Minister of Education, Science, Sport and Youth, Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič, will answer Mrs Marija Bacič's question about the intentions of additional burdens in the first triad.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u62	Your Honor, thank you for asking. In particular, I refer to the national knowledge verification and our proposal to introduce it in the first triad, that is, at the end of the third class. National knowledge testing is one of the elements by which we check how we really guarantee quality and follow and achieve learning objectives within the framework of the programmes. National knowledge verification as external verification is not unusual in other countries as well. Let me say that some countries do this every year. And this does not mean that this is a test that must be very stressful for students, for young people, for teachers, for parents, but must be a review as part of a process that takes place spontaneously within education and education and within the individual programming structures that are carried out in primary school. Let me say that the review of foreign systems shows that, in fact, there are only two countries or three, two within the EU and only in certain communities, Belgium in German-speaking work, and Liechtenstein, although not involving national knowledge checks. Otherwise, even the United Kingdom, with the exception of Wales, does this more often than we do. Even we have, I think that Denmark, where national knowledge testing is mandatory, will try practically from second to eighth grade, i.e. every year. And we have most of the countries that do it at least three times. So three times in a work like this. Some countries have eight-year, other seven-year, third nine-year education, some also ten-year education, depending on how the system is mapped out. In view of this, this means that there is something that also gives us a comparative picture with knowledge and, above all, knowledge standards. There is great emphasis on the standards of knowledge of our children or young people and that this must be integrated into the education system in a way that becomes just one of the checks of knowledge, as it can be done every day in school. This was also the purpose of receptivising the implementation of national knowledge verification. We have held a number of professional discussions, opened a public forum, obtained opinions from all stakeholders in the educational and wider public community. At the same time, we know that the originators of the White Paper have already drawn up in 2011, that verifications in the first triad should be started and not only at the end but also to design a national knowledge check now with evaluations in the ninth grade, as one of the assessments in the audited subjects, i.e. only one of the assessments in the audited items at the conclusion of the whole case. The design of a national knowledge test following this new proposed model is primarily aimed at monitoring pupils' development since the first triad, i.e. from the first year forward. And it is both a tool and a very important instrument for both the teacher and the parents. We want to encourage one another to work together to see what else might be good for the child to fulfill, what is great, what would be good or what would be good to guide him. In fact, we are adding an additional moment to the evaluation of individual knowledge and, above all, to monitoring within triad periods. This is also the basic way, methodologically speaking, of an external verification approach and, of course, of course, of the entire evaluation that we make on this basis from the point of view of the system. On the basis of all the checks at national level, then our national centre and we as the ministry review the results achieved, look at what may be systemicly occurring in the lack of knowledge of students, and to this end we update and meet the so-called learning goals, but also the programmes that lead to these goals. It's a circled quality loop. Therefore, national knowledge checks are part of a quality system that we have now also established in higher education, which we have not yet known systematically. Is that stress? Any verification of anyone is probably a type of stress. However, what we want to encourage in the renewal of the national knowledge check is that this is just one of the checks that students have no particular weight or excitement because of this, but that it becomes part of the educational and educational environment where in the children's triangle the parent-teacher sees the progress of the child in particular.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u63	Mrs Marija Bachič, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, thank you for the answer I have to say that I am not entirely satisfied. In fact, parents and teachers warn us about the burdens of students and that many students, children, have problems in psychology, some even need a pedopsychiatric treatment. I certainly cannot agree that this will not be a stressful situation, not just for students, but for parents as well as for teachers who say that students in the first triad are too burdened. Now with this recast of the elementary school programme, and with the first foreign language, which is in the past, you are probably also aware that the developmental psychologists have already opposed. Look, it's not gonna be a one-class national knowledge check, it's gonna be a 1st, 2nd and 3rd grade national knowledge check. And don't tell me they won't be burdened, so it won't be stressful. If teachers do not have other levers, they will have to determine through this national knowledge check where students have problems or where they are excellent, it will be extremely stressful. I believe that many parents decide to postpone schooling precisely because the situation in the first triad is stressful. I know because I have a granddaughter who's even gifted, and she has a lot of trouble not talking about how much time parents have to spend on students to do all these education units. In addition, I believe that if we just add and don't burden these programs, I'm sure one day the students will crack. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u65	Minister of Education, Science, Sport and Youth, Dr. Maja Makovec Brenčič, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u66	First of all, let me say that the first check will only be in 3rd grade, not 1st and 2nd grade. That'll be on the 3rd, 6th and 9th. Class. In the third grade two subjects – Slovenian language and mathematics. What I would point out is to encourage many people who in some way refer not only to the ministry but to all bodies involved in the development of education, how to make learning more creative, especially, as they say they enjoy learning more. That is why we will also be renewing, and also by means of the proposal for a basic school law with changes to the expanded concept, we are also adding this relaxation part or creative part, an innovative part, and here we are looking for the challenges that you discussed earlier. Surely every burden on a child is a stress, as I pointed out earlier. Therefore, it is important to empower teachers at the same time that all this activity, which takes place at any time during any verification, will also be routinely checked in the classroom, as relaxed as possible, while at the same time part of the process, which does not represent additional pressure and stress for the individual student, but at the same time empowers the teacher in a way that he can, and can, monitor the child in cooperation with the parents, and on the other hand, have all the new and necessary professional competences. And these are increasingly needed, for the school, especially the elementary school, is becoming a large and powerful social mirror. Today, we bring all the children, the parents, all the individuals we enter. Expectations and pressures on teachers are also very high. And they take on a lot of responsibility, including part of those who may never have, and especially new in the field of education, not just education. How now all this concept of all these new expectations and at the same time the basic school needs to build in a way that the burden will not be too much for anyone, but that we will provide the standards of knowledge and learning goals in the way that PiSA sent us this year or last year. You know that we have achieved excellent results in specific areas, probably not if we did something wrong. And these are our international comparisons, so I've already given you the concept of national skills checks, which is much more intense in some other countries than in us.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u67	Ms Alenka Smerkolj will now respond to Mr Matjaž Germany's questions about drawing European funds from the cross-border cooperation programme Interreg Slovenia – Italy.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. In fact, the Government for Development and European Cohesion Policy is also responsible for the implementation of European territorial cooperation, including, inter alia, the cross-border programmes of Austria, Hungary and Croatia, but is not essentially competent as the managing authority for the Slovenia-Italy cross-border programme. The Italian side is responsible for the management of this programme and in fact it is the country directorate of Furlania - the Julian landscape. The fact is that we, as the managing body on our side, coordinate all the opinions on the Slovenian side in accordance with the law alone, we truly coordinate the opinions of the Slovenian delegation and also represent Slovenia on each monitoring committee. Where's it stuck in here? The fact is that last year it was like the last call, where we made this case very quickly, and the Italian side was not so fast, but a public tender was already launched last June. This invitation to tender was subsequently opened by the applicants. 38% of the programme funds and 28 million euros were distributed. At the end of May, 24th and 25th, a meeting of the Monitoring Committee was held, where the key theme of the agenda was confirmation of these projects at the standard tenders. And I believe that's also a question. There we were faced with the situation that the Italian delegation was not prepared to decide on the projects, explaining that they had not been provided with complete documentation on either Slovenian or Italian pages. The fact is that we have expressed great disappointment at their decision and have assessed that this is totally unacceptable. Not just because we're wasting time, all of us, especially because the applicants have actually been waiting for confirmations for over 8 months. The only thing we were able to agree on, and this was relatively difficult, is that the next meeting was convened on June 27th, and we believe that the agreement will be reached in the essence of all three, now on the Italian side, both Furlania - the country of July and Veneto and Slovenia, as well as practically both regions, will agree on which projects this first money will go. That way I can say I'm not happy either. Here we are trying, on the Slovenian side we are actually coordinated, but here they are not practiced in our hands. So much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u69	Mr Matjaž German, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary, for your comprehensive response. In fact, my question was based on another focus. You've described these bilateral relations well, and I believe they're complex. But in the description of my question, I touched quite a bit on what I think you said was harmonised, it seems on the Slovenian side. Interreg, mission, we know what is supposed to be, in particular, to promote development on the borderline, of course due to the geographical limitations of Slovenia or smallness, it is difficult to define where this border area is at all, compared to a larger country than the Italian Republic in this case. My question and concern are mainly based on informal information that the vast majority of Slovenian projects confirmed should not reach the borderline. Of course, this is a mission, as I understand it, of such cross-border projects. It is said that those projects that go somewhere along the entire Western border should not be as attractive as those that come from within the country. Of course, we know that there is a whole range of successful institutions within the country, specifically in Ljubljana. But my emphasis is not to take anything from these institutions, but, above all, to help those institutions that should be helped by the basic mission. It's called coming from the border belt. In particular, in Novi Gorica we advocate a cross-border project to regulate the largest park, if I may say so, in nature, a cross-border project of the Panovac regime. According to my information, such projects are not attractive enough compared to a project run by the Chemical Institute or other such institutes, such as the Institute of Joseph Štefan in Ljubljana. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u71	Minister without a department responsible for the development of strategic projects and cohesion, Mrs Alenka Smerkolj, you have the floor to complete the response.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u72	Thank you very much again. Maybe now I understand the direction a little bit more. The fact is, as far as strategic projects are concerned, we have two, just for the Gorica area, where we have already committed 8.5 million euros with the Italian side, namely EZTS Gorica. In fact, both projects are designed for the development of old and new Gorica, these are in fact projects that are absolutely excellent. But as far as the direction you're thinking is concerned, it's essentially strategic projects. However, strategic projects are essentially in a direction and now, on the individual ten strategic themes proposed by Slovenia and also agreed in February, groups are being formed in some way to implement these programmes. The invitation to tender for this part has not yet been drawn up by Italy, so it will also be very important to see what the tendering conditions will be, even though the themes are in some way harmonised. This call is expected to take place in October of this year. About each of the ten priority or strategic orientations, applicants or programming partners on both sides of the border must now agree. This is quite an intensive exercise, in some areas, I will say, very successful for the Slovenian work, but perhaps a little less successful for the Slovenian part. But in any case, we know we need a consensus virtually everyone. I believe that the most successful projects will also be signed up together in the end. But I have to say about this at the Chemical Institute that I don't know right now because I don't think I've ever heard of it in all the stories.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u73	Mr Matjaž Germany, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to discuss the response to the next meeting of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. President. That's exactly what I'm worried about. In fact, cross-border cooperation between the two Goricas is indeed based on an exceptional project called the EGTC. Therefore, because we have done something good, we are deprived of what our mission should be. It is said that INTERREG, which should be designed to help cross-border projects, is therefore out of the question because we already have such a project. We are only talking about the New York end — what about everyone else? I'm also interested in: Are the other projects that are for the interior of the country and do not have such competition in this form, as mentioned by you, Madam Minister, in a privileged position? It is good that we do not play with words, I have a very specific question that I would like to ask in the future, unfortunately today will not be possible to get an answer, but take as a proposal. Would it be possible to combine strategic and standard projects? We have quite a few demands and initiatives from this direction. Mr President, I apologize to you for this abuse, and for the first time, it has happened to me that in three and a half years I will not ask for it as a good coalition partner. I apologize for this abuse in advance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u75	The apology has been accepted, but we really don't want it. But we're not going to give the vice president any reminders, are we? But if we're going to get there, then it's going to be really wrong. We have thus concluded with these questions which were before this meeting. We are moving on to the current issues of Members and Members in the first round. Mag. Andrej Shircelj, you have the floor to question the Minister of Finance of Mags. Matei Vranictor Erman.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister! We have a special law on the construction of the second track of Divac-Koper. We all know that this modernisation is necessary for development not only of Kopra, but of all Slovenia. We also have, under this law, some technical solutions. What's the price of this project? What is the impact of this project on public finances? Indeed, the first question arises from the fact that we cannot, in my opinion, determine, affect public finances if we do not have a price. And now this is the price under the law itself, if we figure out which budget should go to a special society every year, 45 years, between 30 and 45 million. Half of these millions are supposed to be given special taxes by the country or budget, but if you take 40 million, it still means that 20 million will go out of the taxpayer's money. And, in short, if the state gives 40 million a year — 45 years under the law itself — it is estimated to amount to 1 billion 800 million. He presented a similar number, or he had a very broad explanation, including Mr Dragonja, who also gave us special material on the Commission for Public Finance Supervision. In fact, he had this as a presentation, and here it's a billion 745. Is that true? Do these data actually hold? Even in the light of the fact that the Prime Minister ordered the Ministry on 8 June to draw up a decision for the Government, where we will formally ensure that the Second track is built by allowing for duality. So now we're not just going to have one tunnel, we're going to have two tunnels. How much does that mean now, and what is the impact on public finances? And the same day, of course, on Twitter, I read Prime Minister Mir Cerar's tweets, said that the current route would be intended for tourism, as proposed in Black Kal. It's probably a cycling trip. Is all of this now included in public finances and is all of this included in public debt, deficit and so on? Mr Dragonja has already provided some information on all of this at his presentation. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u77	Minister of Finance Mag. Matthew Vrančnik Erman, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor, and thank you, Mr Member, for the question. The law itself and the existing material or materials dealt with by the Government indicate that the investment value of the second track is 950 million. However, the figures you mentioned indicate the costs or other obligations that will have to be provided in the State budget during the second track period. What's this all about? This is a project involving several ministries, each from its point of view. It is not my intention today to challenge or confirm the views of other ministries in response to the question. Each shall look at the project from its own perspective and shall also be responsible for the data and figures provided in this context. Due to this change or forecast that the project will also take into account the need to build two tracks not only one, the materials available to the Ministry of Finance have no significant impact. Such a large infrastructure project cannot be built without the investment itself and then the use of the track has no public financial implications. It is only a question or a comparison between the different options that can essentially affect public finances. From the point of view of the impact of the construction itself, I can stress once again that the project has an impact on both the deficit and the debt of the state sector, given that the investment is in charge of 2TKK, which is included in the state sector. As a result, in fact, its outcome or the investment they provide affects both the deficit and the debt of the State, with the impact on the deficit of construction or investment to the extent that the funds are actually spent on investment in a given calendar year, whereas the debt is affected by the company as much as it owes itself to the implementation of the investment, of course again in the year in which the company is actually in debt. Unlike other alternative proposals for the construction of a second track, the proposal drawn up by the Joint Government or contained in the proposal, in a law already approved by the National Assembly, the public financial consequences are partly financed by additional revenue provided by users or entities which will benefit the most from the construction of the second track and partly from the general or so-called integral resources of the state budget. In part, these revenues are provided at the very time of construction as assigned revenue, and in part at the time of operation as a partial source for the payment of the credits paid. Taking into account all the circumstances, I estimate that the public financial framework, as drafted by law, is manageable from a public financial point of view among the different options that we have addressed, but can be managed by means of careful control over the implementation of the investment itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u79	Mag. Andrej Shircelj, you have the floor to request a response.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Definitely complementing the answer. Because right now, I'm afraid I'm going to give more information on this issue than the Minister of Answers. Look, the Fiscal Council gave an opinion on this project and presented it to the Public Finance Supervisory Commission, Dr. Kkruk, President of the Fiscal Council. There are significant risks to the deficit, this is an assessment by the Fiscal Council, particularly on the structural deficit, because there are no reforms to reduce this structural deficit, and there are also these expenditure and this issue. All costs go to the deficit, not only construction costs, but also financing costs and so on. And here I'm sorry that you probably now have, Mr. Secretary-General, this material that has been transmitted to all of us, including your Secretary of State, where the impact on the deficit after years on the percentage of gross social product, for example, in 2019 0.10% of GDP, is 400 million, in 2020 0.25%, that is about one billion, in 2021 1.2 billion. This is, I'm talking about a percentage of GDP, 0.3% of GDP is about 1.2 billion, given that it is 400 million. In fact, these matters are high and, of course, have an impact on themselves. I'd like the exact details: What effect will this have? Is this amount actually acceptable to the State? Is this project acceptable to the country also in technical terms?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u81	Minister of Finance Mag. Matthew Vrančnik Erman, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u82	As far as it is known, the Fiscal Council has pointed out the significant impact the project has on public finances, and I have also initially said that such a large infrastructure investment project cannot be carried out without the project itself having a certain impact on public finances. And the data presented also indicate these effects. However, I must say that the figures you mentioned are excessive, because if we have a real GDP of 40 billion annually, roughly rounded, 0.3% of GDP does not amount to a billion 200, but it does mean 120 million, which nevertheless has a great impact on public finances, but the right numbers must be used. And that's what I'd like to point out. The investment itself has nothing to do with the structural deficit or with the structural effort. On the contrary. Such investments may constitute a special exception if we decide that we are essentially in favour of an exception to the required structural deficit or structural effort on this path. Finally, I would like to point out once again that this is a major infrastructure project, an important infrastructure project whose financial structure is designed in a comparable manner to other modern infrastructure projects abroad, where part of the costs are borne by those who actually benefit most from the investment made, are partly covered by general public funds and partly by the burden is shared among the different countries involved. These principles are also followed by the financial design of this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u83	Mag. Andrej Šircelj, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to discuss the response to the next meeting of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like this debate to be held because, for the first time, the information we have received is not accurate. I now quote what we actually got at this meeting: “In the period of implementation of the project, the cumulative impact on the deficit of 1.8% of GDP for 2017, 1.47% of GDP takes account of growth up to 2025...” and so on. That's one thing. Secondly, see, also technically this project is not simply completed and completed. This was found at numerous meetings, assemblies, expert meetings. If we do not know exactly what technical data are, then it is probably very difficult to determine what the actual price will be. That's one thing. The second point, which is the opinion of the profession, is the definition of this project financially and technically. 20 kilometres from 27 will go through tunnels with speed requiring special equipment requiring special construction requiring special purchases and special research, as was actually said. In Slovenia, the main role of freight is that of transporting cars to the south of fruit, for people it is practically useless this railway, it has too many propensities in curves, which means, of course, that people will be very difficult to tolerate if it comes to it at all. For this reason, I think it is necessary for the National Assembly to look again at the technical and financial aspects of this project, in particular in order not to make this an unfinished project, even in order to obtain data from the Government. The minister said that every ministry has its own data, and I am only responsible for those who are held by the Ministry of Finance. Yeah, okay. But I think it's necessary for these data to be unified at government level. And if the President of the Government is talking about making another track next to one track, then, of course, the question for the Minister of Finance is whether that means the price times two, simply put, and whether it means deficit times two and public debt times two for the project. I think it is essential that this answer be discussed with the Minister of Finance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u85	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 20. June, in the framework of the votes. Mr Luka Mesec will ask the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Dr Anji Kopač Dark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, my question, as you know, relates to the agreement that the Government adopted with the social partners on 7 June. According to our assessment, the United Left, the agreement harms the most neglected workers who, for the first time, are employed in illegal labour agencies, which are unfortunately increasingly in Slovenia, and the most notorious case of recent times are called the IPS in Luka Koper. Then the recipients of the minimum wage, which do not receive supplements for more difficult working conditions and working hours. And thirdly, disabled workers and workers over the age of 55 who are still enjoying special protection from forgiveness. On 7 June you, as Minister, signed an agreement with the presidents of the coalition parties to oppose the laws on labour inspection and the minimum wage we have paid in the United Left to protect these three groups of people. In the coalition, you represent this agreement as a compromise for the benefit of both sides, and we estimate that it is a compromise to the detriment of the most neglected workers. If I specify, instead of our proposal, you will adopt a government law on labour inspection, which does not mention workers from illegal agencies at all. Then you will reject our proposal for a minimum wage, which will ultimately ensure that additives such as the work-life allowance and other supplements are excluded from the minimum wage and that the minimum wage is only added to make minimum wages the basis. And then, thirdly, you continue to support the so-called contractual termination of the job that you could, and you have been warned to do so, employers used the bypass to forgive older workers and disabled people. My questions are therefore simple: What is your solution to the problem of illegal agencies such as the IPS in Cyprus? How is it that you are ready for workers with minimum wages when we first proposed a minimum wage redefinition in the United Left to eliminate at least the holiday allowances, night work and overtime, and now you do not want to ensure that other supplements are excluded? What's the reason for that? How will you ensure that the Institute of Consensual Disengagement will not be misused to forgive older workers and disabled persons? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u87	Dear Minister Anja Kopač Dark, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u88	Thank you for your word. Member of the Commission, Mr Luka Mesec, thank you for the question. It is extremely interesting and raises questions about whether we can keep this society going by hearing only one side and perhaps by the way it is liked here in the hall, or by trying, which is much harder, to arrange things that are good for everyone. In fact, social dialogue is one of the fundamental gains in the post-World War II period, that conflicts that are always present between work and capital have been managed in a socially consensual way. Social dialogue had its ups and downs, but it is an important value. In the most democratic and also the most prosperous countries, their social consensus is based on social dialogue, where there are strong unions, and even negotiation, the government is always a mediator between employers and employees. So, yes, my value as Minister of Labour is to try, in a consensual way, to solve social problems. And that's why I think it's 7. 6. The signed agreement is a big step forward because the social partners have made it very clear, including the unions, as well as employers, that of course each side cannot get what it would like at the moment, because they believe that it is a long time to sit a little longer, but to agree on a long time for this country, which is very consensual, this is much better. As far as your proposal and comparison are concerned, let's be honest. Your proposal for a law was based on the proposal of the Ministry of Labour law, and those things that have been further introduced, as far as employment agencies are concerned, have also been deemed inappropriate by the Legislative and Legal Service. So the question is what can be liked and said, and the other is what is realistically feasible in the legal order. And no, please, mix the IPS with the labour agencies, because it is essentially before the administrative court, because the labour inspectorate found that the IPSs are in violation of the legislation because they should be registered to intervene, and Luke Koper or those to whom the decision was handed down complained and awaited the ruling of the administrative court. So things are being resolved, the way you're proposing would be too much confusion, which is what the Legal and Legal Service actually said. But our proposal for a law, or which is consistent with the social partners, solves the issue of leniency, as we have agreed, so if the inspector finds that someone has a civil contract, but it is part of a working relationship, he has a new competence, in addition to the prohibition decision, to give the order that within three days he must also submit an appropriate contract of employment for that worker. And on the other hand, don't forget, we're also giving a stricter sanction for non-payment of wages. Isn't that the protection of the most vulnerable? Above all, you forget the other very important law, which is the Labour Market Regulation Act, which is also part of this package, which clearly tries to activate the unemployed, we give 20% of the allowance for all those unemployed with a lower level of education and those with a secondary school who do not have a deficit rate of education. As far as the IPS is concerned, it is illegal practice, and please do not interfere with the intervention agencies where they have their problems, but it is not apples and pears to mix. As far as the minimum wage is concerned, the fact that we backed up at the time was about signatures, was a matter that we negotiated under the social agreement. However, your proposals to all of us aim to raise the minimum wage as much as possible, but the minimum wage provided by law is one of the important institutions, but it is not the only one. [[…]] And you are also involved in collective bargaining, which is the basis of a bipartite social bargaining, which I must be committed to as Minister of Labour, because it is also the basic basis for wage policy negotiation, and we have also agreed in the social agreement that wages will be coordinated with collective partnership contracts. So that your proposal is an essential intervention in actual collective bargaining, and this is also extremely important for further development, because this means that we no longer need sectoral collective agreements, because we can regulate everything by law in the way you propose. I still believe that it is a good proposal, but I will probably be able to explain further about the agreement break-up.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u89	Mr. Luka Moon, you have the floor to request a complete reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u90	Thank you. If I understand you correctly, you do not want or want to interfere with minimum wage regulation because you say that this must be done through social dialogue. I don't know if this is just your personal opinion, but I'm sure it's not the government's opinion, because the government has made it clear why it opposes the redefinition of minimum wage. She's set three points. Firstly, she said that this would damage the competitiveness of the economy, secondly because it would result in €10 million of public sector expenditure, and then, thirdly, she added that the consent of the social partners should be reached. So I cannot believe at this point that there is a problem in social dialogue, but I think that the problem is how the Government talks to the social partners. Speaking of what I'm reading here, it's a position that the Chamber of Commerce could easily take. I do not believe that you have faced the fact that in Slovenia we have five, six, even seven wage classes below the minimum wage, that actually wages start before 450, compared to 613 euros, that there are practices in enterprise contracts such as myself – I can bring you papers – and saw that people get 240 Euros of basic salary, and then the rest by adding to the minimum wage. These are simple things that this society and this country should not allow. So once again, I ask: Why don't you want to cut to the minimum wage to make sure? As far as penitentiaries and IPS are concerned. Otherwise, the compromise made by the Government improves the situation for espionage and does not improve the position of all those working in illegal labour agencies. And I use this term on purpose, because the IPS are offering a service on paper, and in fact they are nothing more than the companies that provide work, and therefore they are illegal agencies for the intervention of work.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u91	Madam Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u92	The minimum wage was introduced by the Social Democrats in the 1990s. Probably one of the highest wage increases occurred during the financial crisis, I think it was raised by 23%. At the time when the definition of minimum wage was introduced, it was based on an agreement on the wage policy that was signed, and the definition of minimum wage was agreed at the time. The definition of the minimum wage you are now interfering with is one of the most neurological points of social dialogue. And there have been many attempts to try to agree on a change in the definition of minimum wage. I now believe that it will be easier and in a different way to understand the minimum wage, but in no way would the social partners agree that one of the political parties is setting a minimum wage by a decree past social dialogue. Since you need to know, I could come with such a law, everyone would applaud and everything would be nice, but the fact is that ultimately managing the country for the good of people means that you need to listen to all the structures, and it's not always the easiest thing to try to compromise. And finding compromise at a point like this is difficult. As you know, with the support of the minimum wage, the signed social agreement, which we have been working for for a long time, has also fallen. My opinion, as I have said, is a minimum wage on its basis, your proposal interferes with collective bargaining, which undermines the social structure and social dialogue in this country, and this is one of the fundamental reasons why I cannot personally support it. Above all, this is a matter of dealing with such sensitive issues, where at least efforts must be made to negotiate with the social partners. Of course, you can have the luxury of saying that because you are in the opposition, that you can only listen to one proposal and submit this proposal, the task of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and me as Minister of Labour, because as Minister I swore I must respect and work for all citizens and citizens, but it is my job to have a social dialogue to manage it and to try to find consensus. So sometimes it would be easier to sit in your seat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u93	Luka Mesec, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to discuss the response to the next meeting Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u94	Thank you. I propose, of course, that the National Assembly hold a debate on the agreement reached by the Government with the social partners 7. Junia. The compromises discussed by the Minister are unfortunately poor and led to the growing number of second-class workers in Slovenia, the growing segregation between those who still have working rights and those who do not. Among my generation, among young people, espection and luxury have unfortunately become normal, not just in the hospitality industry or in some neurological sector, but eventually among journalists in construction, in the IT sector and so on. On the other hand, we see the phenomenon that wild job intervention agencies or illegal job intervention agencies, as I previously called port service providers in Luka Koper, have literally fallen apart in recent years to remind me of just some Marof Trade and something like that. I therefore propose that in this National Assembly I discuss this agreement, in all its three points – for the first time, how we will ensure that the social rights guaranteed in this country are finally achieved by all workers on paper. Secondly, to discuss whether it is acceptable and how we will achieve that people in this country will not work for 400 euros, 450 euros, and get the rest by adding to the minimum wage at all. Thirdly, to prevent a person from getting a basic salary of €240 at the legal level, and then, with some supplements, only to pay the minimum, because it is not only him who is harmed, so we are harmed by all citizens and citizens, because his employer doubles contributions to cash and to the state budget from the base but not from the payment, it is worth €240, then you can imagine how little he is paid. Thirdly, to discuss, after all, whether a compromise, as the Government calls it, is acceptable for employers to now agree to forgive workers over 55 years of age and persons with disabilities. For us, the United Left is absolutely not. I suggest we take this seriously.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u95	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, in the framework of the votes. Next one's a mag. Bojan Krajnc will raise the question to the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities and to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is rightly absent today. Mag. Krajnc, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u96	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Honourable Minister Dr. Anja Kopač Dark and Minister, as it were said, was justifiably absent. On the basis of the Paris peace treaty, the area of the present Slovenian Primorska belonged to the Federal People's Republic of Yugoslavia. Until the entry into force of the peace treaty, the Slovenian people of this part were Italian citizens and, like the civilian victims of the war, had their disability status and rights under Italian law, and some had already received invalidity from the Italian Republic. Following the conclusion of the Paris Peace Treaty, FLRJ assumed the obligation to pay civil and military pensions in accordance with point B of Part Four of the Paris Peace Treaty. The Republic of Italy paid $125 million for the full recovery of the FLRJ war. Later, in 1954, an agreement was concluded between FLRJ and the Republic of Italy on the final settlement of all mutual obligations under the Peace Agreement, which provided that the competent Yugoslav organisations would ensure payment of civil and military pensions from 15 September 1947 and under the provisions of Yugoslav law. Unfortunately, however, payments were not made to these civilians in the war, who were already injured as children, most of them as children and are now in the end, almost at the end of their lives, even though FLRJ from the Republic of Italy took over the obligation to pay and also received funds for this purpose. Neither FLRJ nor its successors, including the Republic of Slovenia, which submitted their obligation under the instrument of notification of the succession of the agreements of the former Yugoslavia with the Republic of Italy, have adopted appropriate legal grounds to enforce the rights of this group of civil disabled persons of war until now, therefore, nor have they consistently fulfilled their obligations, even though they have received and are bound by an international treaty to settle these obligations. Madam Minister, I ask you, Mr. Secretary-General, in absentia: When will the Government of the Republic of Slovenia finally regulate this right to compensation or disability for this specific group of war victims now citizens of the Republic of Slovenia? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u97	Dr. Anya Digač Dark has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u98	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Thank you, Mr Bojan Kranjc, for the question. The relevant Republic legislation regulating the protection of civilians with disabilities of war was adopted in 1968 when certain forms of disability protection were provided for civilians with at least 100 % physical impairment. In the coming years, disability legislation has gradually extended to civil disabled persons in wars with recognised lower disability rates until 1992 when adequate legal protection was also provided for civil disabled persons with at least 20% disability. With regard to the issue of disability, which would be provided to civil persons with disabilities by a peace treaty concluded between the SFRY and the Republic of Italy, the expert opinion of the State Defence Office of the Republic of Slovenia, which, with regard to the possible compensation of the Republic of Slovenia as the legal successor of the former SFRY, on the basis of the unpaid invalidity benefits to civil disabled persons in the past, assessed that there is no basis for compensation under the current legislation on that legal basis. In this regard, the State Defence also considers that the formulation of Article 1 of the International Agreement between the FLRS and the Republic of Italy on the final settlement of all mutual obligations of an economic and financial nature resulting from the 1954 Peace Treaty and the successful agreements is not clear as to the obligations of the SRFJ on that basis. In this regard, the State Attorney's Office notes that the compensation liability of the Republic of Slovenia as the legal successor of the SFRJ due to the non-admission or inadmissibility of the relevant legislation relating to the special social protection of Slovenian citizens from the area of the Slovenian Primorje, who have become disabled as Italian citizens and have exercised their disability status and rights under the current Italian rules, is not objectively stated. Any claim for compensation for damage caused under this Title shall, in the opinion of the Office of the Attorney-General, be in absolute arrears. In 1992, the Republic of Slovenia, by means of an act notifying the succession of the agreements of the former SFRJ with the Republic of Italy in the sense of domestic law prior to the acquisition or succession of an inter-State agreement, did not, however, assume any legal obligation on the settlement or payment of compensation to civil persons with disabilities in accordance with the agreement concluded between the former SFRJ and the Republic with regard to the start and the period of time. In this example, the opinion of the State defence is quite clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u99	Dr. Vinko Gorenak will raise the question of the interior minister, Mag. The spring Györkös Žnidar, which is rightly absent.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u100	Or not.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u101	Mr. Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u102	Or not. Mr Vice-President, I have a problem here in the official announcement of the National Assembly, Madam Minister is not absent. No one has received any announcement that the Minister will be absent, and this letter now says that she is absent. Make some order here with you at the College of Presidents of the National Assembly, in the government and so on. I can only remind you to make a comparison between 2004, 2008, 2012, and the current situation. This is a disaster, because ministers don't come here at all. Make a comparison and you'll see. But well, my question of the Member of Parliament is actually the biggest story of these days. [[…]] This is a story about the laundering of Iranian dirty money, or financing of terrorism, if you will, through the New Ljubljana Bank. You'd think there's a government in Slovenia. To rule the government, not to rule. In 2012, there was another government, this is our government, where I was the minister. In 2012, the police were most likely to investigate that billion, and no one informed me about it, and the public must know that. The public needs to know that, too. I therefore ask, of course, the current Minister: When was Mrs Kresalov informed, and what did she do about the matter? In fact, for every trifle, ministers, and she did it, write guidelines to the police. The number of dead increases by 2 – it is already the police’s direction. The number of break-ins in chickens – we have the police's direction. But here we have a billion euros, and I don't know if the lady has done anything. I'm still asking her: Has Mrs. Kresalov informed her successor, Mr. Zalar? Mr. Zalar didn't inform me of the biggest crime of that time. I'm asking: When was Mr. Goršek informed? But I can say in public that he did not inform his successor of this. He didn't report it. Someone, now I don't know if it was Mr Goršek or Mr Jevšek, the current SD mayor in Murska Sobota said, but then he was the head of the criminal police, he said, I gave it to the subordinates and then I didn't interfere with their work. Can you imagine?Oh, my God! I don't even know who said that. He wasn't interested in one billion. She wasn't interested. And then that's your chief of police! In short, I'm asking: How did this information go? In particular, I would like to know from the Minister: What did the police do? Because according to the data published so far, she did nothing but two, three depots. I want an answer orally, Mr Vice President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u103	Thank you very much, Dr. Vinko Gorenak. Mr Jožef Horvat will ask the Minister of Public Administration, Mr Boris Koprivnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President! Dear Minister of Public Administration, Boris Koprivnikar, I will first ask my question and then argue it. I ask you, Mr. Minister: What will you do to ensure that Slovenian citizens who do not live in ethnically mixed areas can only obtain an administrative service in the Slovenian language regardless of the area in which the administrative units want to perform administrative services? Let me also remind you of the position of your ministry, which you personally signed on 15 December 2015, which is attesting to my further claims. Mr Minister, in my office in the municipality of Črenšovci, I am getting more and more complaints from citizens living in areas where the Hungarian National Community does not live, and they want this certificate of administrative certification, for example, in the Slovenian language, but in accordance with the instructions of the Ministry of Public Administration of 27. Ten. They can only receive a bilingual certificate. If you go to look, I went, a book of comments and commendations at the Lendava Management Unit, here people complain because they get a bilingual certificate of administrative service, but the Slovenians or they don't live in the national mixed area. By the way, this book is, I have taken some pictures of these comments on the Lendava Administrative Unit, which has been practically always excellently evaluated so far. Mr Minister, we both know that the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia stipulates in Article 11 that the official language in Slovenia is Slovenian and in the areas of the municipalities in which the Italian or Hungarian national communities live is also Italian or Hungarian. The second paragraph of Article 62 of the Administrative Procedure Act provides that in an area of municipalities where, in addition to the Slovenian language, the official language of the Authority is also the Italian or Hungarian language, the administrative procedure shall be carried out in the Slovenian language and the language of the national community if the party submits a request in that language on the basis of which the procedure is initiated or the party so requests at any time during the proceedings. I underline the case where Slovenian citizens living in an area that is not ethnically mixed, i.e. where neither the Italian or Hungarian national communities live, get a bilingual certificate in case of administrative certification. This is the administrative unit Lendava, Izola, Koper and Piran, which are obliged under the Slovenian Constitution and under the Administrative Procedure Act to issue certificates of administrative authorizations only in Slovenian language to residents from an area where the said national communities do not live. Thank you very much for your explanations, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u105	Mr Boris Koprivnikar has the floor of the Minister of Public Administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u106	President, thank you for your word. Dear Member, thank you for these questions. Let us explain in terms of the Constitution and the laws to which you have also invoked that I have specialities in Slovenia in certain parts of the country called bilinguality. This is guaranteed by the Constitution and the laws. The law, however, binds the use of language in a bilingual area, as you can see, for the first time, of the application, whether I have invested it in Italian, Hungarian or Slovenian, if you are a party to the procedure. However, where certificates are issued where there is no direct involvement of the party, they shall be issued in bilingual areas according to the seat of the administrative unit, but on a bilingual basis. In addition to the General Administrative Procedure Act, which provides for this, we also have the Law on State Administration and the Regulation on Administrative Operations, which specifies exactly what operations are like in these bilingual areas and, as it is said, bind to the seat of the administrative unit. This provides that, in the case of the establishment of an administrative unit in a bilingual area, forms, receiving presses, stamps in both languages shall be used, and this has been valid for 15 years and has not changed in any way. And the same goes for this case that you yourself mentioned, for example, the identity certificate, which means that the printer that the official hits on the document and then writes that the document is identical in the original, but is bilingual. That's what's going on in this area. There were still some concerns about the introduction of the electronic record. Even in the case of electronic records, according to the current regulation, which has not been amended for a long time, administrative units apply bilinguality in these areas. We also note for ourselves that some Slovenian citizens are therefore dissatisfied. I checked that two complaints have been received to the Ministry so far during these years. In this case, however, I cannot agree that we violate the Constitution or the laws in bilingual areas. On the contrary, we are already in charge of following this standard with constitutional principles and laws. We must accept, as some other conditions, that in these areas, where bilinguality or the seat of the administrative unit is located in a bilingual area, this is an additional circumstance, which applies to members of the national minority as well as to the Slovenians who live in the area, because it is a standard that is also guaranteed by the Constitution in that country. And finally, it's also, we can say, economically, given that the forms are ready, written and preprinted. In this case, the Regulation also provides that the form must be bilingual and that bilingual heads, titles, signatures, dates and so on must be used in these areas. However, it must be said that in the case of the issue of passports, in the case of the issue of identity cards, an area, permanent residence and that citizen, who is physically outside the municipality directly subject to bilinguality, is given a document only in Slovenian or in both languages, as it turns out. However, in the issuing of decisions and other matters, in accordance with the Regulation, bilinguality applies in these areas. This has not changed with any direction from the Ministry, which has been in force for 15 years.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u107	Joseph Horvath, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u108	Mr. Minister, your associates, most of them attach to my claim that I am right and not you. Mr. Minister, the seat of the administrative unit is not relevant. It's not relevant. My permanent residence is important. If I and my fellow citizens from the Municipality of Črenšovci, this is exactly what is happening, because at this time there is a campaign to collect accession statements for the introduction of the comassation in the entire Municipality of Črenšovci, it is 6 cadastral municipalities, and some of them are also employed in Lendava, and it is very practical, Mr Minister, that they go to the administrative unit for an identity certificate and so on. And why the app, and this is a new application, and these are the people who work on the administrative unit in Lendava, warned your people that the application should be done in such a way that, as you said, if the role in the Slovenian language, there must also be a certificate in the Slovenian language. And I was in the Municipality of Črenšovci, and you are probably in the Municipality of Ljubljana, and if we begin the procedure in the Slovenian language, the certificate must also be issued in the Slovenian language. Here you are, Mr. Secretary, I am asking for your consideration, because, as I say, your associates give me the right. The seat of the administrative unit is not relevant! It's not relevant! We live in Pomure, in the area of the Lendava administrative unit, if you like, in conjunction with the Hungarian National Community. I am the first to think that these relations are better every day, but that is exactly the kind of decision your ministry makes that does not contribute. That's why people are answering the complaint book, so they're talking to an MP to solve this. I repeat, I am first in favour of the fact that if the procedure in the national mixed area starts in Hungarian, that I am very specific, it must also be carried out in this and must be a bilingual certificate. However, when the procedure begins in the Slovenian language and I do not come from a national mixed area, I would like exclusively a Slovenian certificate, Mr Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u109	Minister Koprivnik, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u110	Thank you, Commissioner, for these additional arguments. Although I find it interesting to say that my colleagues attach themselves to you, my colleagues who have prepared this reminder to me and you have now told me for the first time that this matter needs to be settled, even though I am responsible for it. It's a little funny, isn't it? The Regulation on administrative management is open. We can change it. We can also change it in such a way that even in bilingual areas we respect only that if the process starts, it will also confirm and all other matters in one language. However, this will be a very difficult operation, and I do not know how such a modified approach will be adopted in the National Assembly, according to the standard that we have before dealing with minorities. Once it is considered that if the procedure starts in the Slovenian language, it shall be conducted in the Slovenian language, but if certificates, stamps and signatures are issued, they shall be issued in bilingual form. However, the procedure can be initiated in the Slovenian language and is also conducted in such a language, whether it starts in Hungarian or Italian, and also has the right of a minority member to the procedure in his mother tongue, and this must be ensured in fact. That's not the kind of request that came to me. Your question, Mr President, shows that this is a great need. My colleagues, whom you refer to, did not warn me about this, and the reminder prepared by my colleagues points to a different point of view. However, I can check whether the will is open, given that the regulation is open, and also what will be the will in this National Assembly to actually change the standard for dealing with bilinguality in these areas. I believe, however, that we are interfering here with some very sensitive matter that needs to be reconsidered ten times before we open this issue. We provide the standard for both Slovenians and members of the national minority and we provide it in national mixed areas, in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u111	Joseph Horvat, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to discuss the response to the next meeting of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Yes, the Rules of Procedure allow me to propose to the National Assembly to hold a debate on this area. Mr. Secretary, between the lines, I sense that you're somehow picking up my impatience. I reiterate, on the contrary, I live, I have relatives, and even if you want to, my family has been joined by members of the Hungarian national community, and I am the first to have this European standard that we have, and I talk a lot about it when I accept many foreign delegations. And I say that in this regard, thank God, we are an example to Europe. But, Mr. Secretary, this is where the new app came in. You gave the instructions. And now somehow I have the hope, as you said: "The regulation is open, let's put these things in order." It takes us half an hour, and we're not exactly the best programmer to program in the application the choice to ask me what language I want confirmation in. That's all we need. However, in the national mixed area, the person who arrives shall submit or initiate the procedure, in particular in the Pomurje area, in Hungarian, the procedure must be carried out in Hungarian and the certificate must be bilingual. However, if we begin, Mr Minister, who does not live in a national mixed area, we expect in this country to receive a document which will be in the Slovenian language. And I warn you, and please, Mr. Minister, because here, on this line, you are my only interlocutor. I'm not going to collect information anywhere else. But here you are my only interlocutor, and I ask you to consider this so that the coexistence between the majority nation and the minority, the indigenous national community, will continue to be as it is, or every day better. That, we both know, allows us computer applications. And this thing practically costs nothing. I don't buy a rationalization claim here, and so on, look, I'm not buying it. If it's a personal card, if it's a passport, then it's got to be a paper that says it's my own signature. It's very simple. And I ask you kindly to accept this well-intentioned warning and to issue such instructions immediately. I'll keep an eye on it. If this does not change, I believe and I say that I am right not to demand too much that citizens do not ask too much, or I will go to the end, all the way to the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u113	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Mr Franc Jurša will ask Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc's question to the Minister of Health. Here you go, Mr. Jursha.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u114	Thank you, President, for your word. A nice welcome to everyone in the hall, and especially to Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc, who will also be asked a question by me. Topolšica Hospital has been facing major liquidity problems for some time because of its completed investment in the energy rehabilitation of the facility last year, it lacks the means to pay and not to pay for this year's regress. Although the government provided money for salaries, on the basis of these liquidity problems, it decided that Hospital Topolšica would join General Hospital Celje. This decision was not communicated to the employees of the Topolšica Hospital as expected in such cases, but was mainly learned from the media about the plans of the Ministry of Health. At the end of April, a round table was organised on the subject, which was also attended by a representative of the Ministry of Health, who did not provide the competent authorities with appropriate explanations and explanations. It is known that the merger of both hospitals is opposed by employees in Topolšica and Cel, unions of health and non-health workers, but also by patients who have sought help and care at Topolšica Hospital. They also quickly organised themselves in the Shaleska Valley in a civil initiative that also opposes this accession. With regard to the proposed merger, many questions remain open, which certainly also encourage opposition to the merger of these two hospitals, as the future of the hospital is unknown and uncertain. I therefore ask the Minister of Health: What does the proposed merger actually bring both for the operation of the Topolšica Hospital and for employees? What advantages and disadvantages will integration bring to patients, both hospitals and all employees? Do you already know at the Ministry the positive and negative financial consequences that the merger will bring and, of course, what they are? For example, the transport of patients from Celje to Topolšica, which is now paid separately, can be highlighted among the specific open issues, at the time of merger, and this transport between hospitals is expected to amount to €500 million in one year. I thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u115	Madam Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u116	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament! I especially welcome Mr Jurša and thank you for this question. Since many or too many times in the public are spoken of or manipulated by this proposal to stop Topolšica Hospital, let me say that we do not stop the health activities of Topolšica Hospital by combining them. I have said this several times, so to the mayors of Velenje, Šostanja and Šmartno ob Paki on 5 May, whom I invited and met with them at the Ministry of Health, I also told the employees on 9 May when I visited Topolšica Hospital. The fact is that the former hospital management, unfortunately, has caused a state of affairs with which you, too, find that the honourable Member has no money for his wages or that he did not have it as a regression. At the Ministry of Health, following discussions with the management of both hospitals, it is estimated that with the addition of Topolšica Hospital to the General Hospital Celje, optimisation in management and management will be achieved. It is clear from the above that we are not hiding anything at the Ministry, because we have communicated both with the employees, the mayors and the public, and we will also be able to do so in the future when a comprehensive project of connection is ready to be completed. An overview of activities, including a new way of organising management and post-accession activities, is currently being prepared. When connected, a centralised purchasing, investment, human resources and financial service is expected to contribute to a more efficient and efficient business. The Ministry of Health has an analysis of the linkage, where the advantages of this connection are mainly recognised, firstly, the reduction of the costs of material, secondly, the possibility of increasing the revenue due to additional health programmes and the increased volume of existing health programmes and the increase in revenues due to the increased volume of service services such as laundry, kitchen and technical units available today by Hospital Topolšica, thirdly, more available resources for investment in equipment and infrastructure, and fourthly, greater possibilities for financing and obtaining additional liquid assets. The leadings of Topolšica Hospital and Celje are speeding up the coordination of activities and coordinating the programmes. The Ministry of Health has also been informed of the issue you are mentioning, particularly the payment of out-of-patient transport, and we do not currently have an estimate of these costs. We are already solving this issue, together with the payer, this is the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia. The Ministry of Health will coordinate with the local community and with all employees once the project of accession is awarded from all necessary aspects, personnel, financial, professional and investment. In addition, the fate of Topolšica Hospital is not unknown and uncertain. As you yourself mentioned, the Ministry of Health, together with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, has for two months provided the money to pay the salaries of employees and also for the regress, says budget funds, amounting to almost EUR 1 million 200 000, and has also prevented the lack of supplies of medicines. These funds enabled the smooth implementation of health care activities for the health care of residents in the area. And in May, in addition, I signed a contract to purchase three new half-million-euro X-rays for the needs of Topolšica Hospital. This proves that we have serious intentions for patients to receive even better care.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u117	Mr. Franz Jurša, you have the floor to request a complete reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u118	Madam Minister, I thanked you for this part of the answer at the outset. However, I must say that I have not received concrete answers to the question raised. You will have to present these concrete answers, Minister, to all employees at Topolšica Hospital, as well as, of course, local communities and of course, civil initiatives. Because here another additional question is being asked on my part, or because someone made an investment, now I don't know if we had this whole thing completely under control, and we're questioning the hospital's liquidity, which is why we want to attach this hospital to Celje General Hospital. I don't think these are the right reasons for doing that. You, Minister, and of course your representatives, will have to establish a clear and frank communication, as I have already said, with representatives of the hospital employees or employees, civil initiative and, of course, with the local community that is gravitating to this hospital. Therefore, I ask you to answer these questions further.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u119	Madam Minister, please, you have the floor for an additional reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u120	Thank you, too, for these additional questions. In fact, the first part of the communication was carried out, except with civil initiative, at this round table. As long as we do not have all the definitive data, the need for additional financial rehabilitation for the hospital Topolšica I have here with us, because we have worked out this as a project, a timeline, dates and let you know that when the matter is final, at the professional level, when additional necessary funding is provided, that the whole matter is being rehabilitated, we will have a clear discussion with all stakeholders, if you want, with all stakeholders, if you want the employees first, the leadership, both, also the local community and the civil initiative, where we will present these projects to them. It is all going this way to provide additional programmes at Topolšica Hospital in order to enable it to do so in the future, I would say, to provide sufficient funding for the implementation of the programmes it will have.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u121	Mrs Marija Bačič will present the question to the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petr Gasperšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u122	Thank you, Mr. Vice President! Dear Minister, increased transit freight traffic on certain state or regional roads causes damaged roads and endangers the transport safety of other road users, such as pedestrians and cyclists. The avoidance of toll payments also contributes to increased transit traffic and freight. In view of the above, he asks you: What specific measures and where will the Ministry of Infrastructure take or will it adopt to improve the transport safety of people in areas marked by increased transit freight? In what way does the Ministry or Government of the Republic of Slovenia intend to prevent the payment of tolls of transit and freight by driving on regional or state roads? Please, if you can be specific about individual locations. What are you going to do about unloading transit and freight transport in the burdened areas and its negative impact on the lives of the local population? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u123	Minister Peter Gasperšič, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u124	Thank you, President, for your word. Thank you, honourable Members, Maria Bachič for the question raised. And good greetings to the other Members and Members! I will generally ask for an answer, because in principle the principles apply to all the locations where we face this problem that you describe. I can say that, at the Ministry of Infrastructure, we are certainly constantly working to improve transport safety, and to that end, we are also taking appropriate measures in such sections. Therefore, in these areas where this increase in transit freight traffic is taking place, we are solving these issues in a way that reduces the intensity of this traffic and limits it by shifting freight transport, especially from regional and state roads back to motorways. So we're talking transit traffic. This can, of course, be achieved by setting up an appropriate traffic signal which prohibits such transit traffic along the local, regional and regional roads mentioned and which, as it is said, is being rerouted back to motorways. For the most important measure in the implementation of this measure, police supervision has been shown, as many tables alone are not sufficient, as trucks are often not subject to these bans on side-roads, especially if they save a kilometer or also, of course, when they avoid such payment of the toll. Therefore, in order for this measure to have its effect, it is imperative that the police, which also acts accordingly, exercise as much control as possible. The Ministry of Infrastructure will continue to take care, through road managers, of the problem posed by the local environment, to put such traffic signals on problematic sections, with which we will then focus this transit freight on the highway and thus reduce the burden on the local population. I can now say that, in addition to these measures, the Transport Safety Agency of the Republic of Slovenia organised this year and will organise the training of the supervisory authorities for the management of the control of goods vehicles in terms of road safety. This will also increase the quality of the implementation of this control and will also organise a large-scale awareness-raising action for drivers, especially freight vehicles, on road safety. This will be done through parcels that will be shared at different points, such as road restings that are most burdened by transit traffic. Finally, let me say that we expect the introduction of electronic tolling for freight vehicles in free circulation after the distance transported, which we expect to enter into operational use with a new year, from 1. 1. 2018 to practically eliminate this motive of avoiding toll payments through toll stations. In this way, we also expect that this issue of freight transit transport, which will leave the motorways, will be significantly reduced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u125	Mrs Marija Bachič, you have the floor to request a complete reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u126	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. However, in addition to the answer, I would ask you for some specific information, namely, that you have been to Goriček and you have also met with this problem. Let's say transit-freight traffic Sotina-Gederovci, there were several fatal accidents here, and the rehabilitation of the damaged Cankova-Kuzma regional road in the Rogaševci municipality. It is really problematic and I agree with what you said that trucks or this transit freight traffic do not hold the limit and drive, don't ask, 80 and I don't know how many. The road is narrow, the road is damaged, there are many schoolchildren, that is, pedestrians and cyclists, and it is right that something in this area really happens to this population. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u127	Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u128	Yes, thank you very much. I've already been warned about these sections you mentioned. They are also known, of course, by the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Infrastructure. Several measures of these restrictions have already been put in place. As it is said, of course, it is essential that they also be implemented through the exercise of this police control. Of course, where there are problems in terms of damage, destruction of roads, and where the vehicles are also not suitable for decoupling this traffic, which may also occur due to local needs, we will, of course, by the means we are trying to provide in the budget and which are increasing, also improve security sections of this kind. So I'm counting on these sections to be upgraded in that sense. As we say, I think this section will be much better when electronic tolls are introduced for freight vehicles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u129	Mag. Marko Pogačnik will ask the minister of finance mags a question. Matei Vranictor Erman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u130	Dear President, Honourable Minister of Finance! I would like to ask you a question below about the operation of a bad bank or the Bank Management Company. Now we all know that this bank was established by law for a purpose. The taxpayers expect that the money spent to rehabilitate the banking system will somehow be reimbursed in the future through good management through the bad claims transferred to the bad bank and the equity shares returned to the budget or taxpayers. The business result of the Bank's Claims Management Company for 2016 was a net loss of 7.8m euros. In doing so, it must be said that a similar result was achieved in 2015, which means approximately 15 million losses over the last two years. I want to know: Will the Ministry of Finance, which, as the Ministry of Finance under the Act on Strengthening the Stability of the Bank, take any measures? Personally, I'm surprised at such a bad result. We all expected this company to pay the taxpayers back, and now for the second year in a row it's quite a negative. In two years, it's about a 15-million-dollar loss.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u131	Ladies and gentlemen, if you please, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for the floor. Thank you very much, Member, for the question. First, it must be clarified that the Ministry of Finance, under the Act on Measures to Strengthen Bank Stability, is competent to exercise control over the work of the DUTB. In general measures, we are not responsible for this or should not give specific instructions for the execution of individual transactions. For the consideration of the DUTB annual report containing information on the business outcome of the DUTB and the adoption of material-related measures, the Government as the DUTB Assembly shall be competent. The government will address the annual report in a short time. However, I think that the success of the DUB should be taken into account not only through the balance sheet loss or net loss in last year, but on the basis of different indicators. First of all, I would like to mention that in the business of DUTB, 2016 marks mainly the connection between Factor Bank and Probank, which affected the capital of DUTB and the labour costs. As a result of the accession, DUTB’s capital decreased by EUR 79.4 million and the revalued revenue was not sufficient to cover still high funding expenditure. Let me just mention that the bond that DUTB paid last year at the end of the year predicted a return of 4,5 % on the funds invested. The costs of connecting Factor Bank and Probank amounted to EUR 1.7 million. We must not forget, however, the additional costs that DUTB had to bear in relation to the Cimos case. Without these extraordinary events, which the DUTB, in fact, imposed by the Assembly, would have shown profit in 2016. But, as I said earlier, some other indicators should also be taken into account. During last year, DutB's debt fell significantly by almost EUR 400 million. If we assess the operation of the DUTB with an economic return index called ROE, it was 9.5%, which is 1.5% higher than the objectives set out in the DUTB Guidelines, despite the addition of the Factor Bank and Probank. The fact that the active management of DUTB funds created only EUR 369 million last year, which allowed the DUTB to make two early repayments to the Republic of Slovenia in 2016 amounting to EUR 150 million, is the first transaction in April and EUR 120 million in August 2016, is the second transaction in 2016. At the same time, it paid the total remaining liabilities to the Republic of Slovenia in mid-December 2016 amounting to EUR 53.6 million. I mentioned earlier that at the end of December she paid in full the DUT02 maturity bond of EUR 503.2 million and interest on all three bonds issued of EUR 26.7 million. The refinancing and payment of financial obligations are an important part of the implementation of the DUTB mission, as defined by the law and guidelines issued on its basis. For this reason, I assess that the DUTB is properly carrying out the tasks entrusted to it by law. Above all, it is crucial that we enable them to implement the strategy as set out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u133	Mag. Marko Pogačnik, you have the floor to request a reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u134	Dear Minister, I don't know, I'm surprised that you, as Minister, might say you're pleased with an institution that's been creating a multimillion-dollar loss for the second year in a row. In doing so, let us see what kind of wages both management and employees pay. In 2016, at least from the media, they paid an allowance of EUR 4 000 only for loyalty to this society. Whether this data is held or not, I think you, as a minister or a government, will also explain on the basis of this company's annual report. But I'm surprised that you're always looking for the same excuses that there's always an emergency, some extraordinary event. We have already warned you, as an opposition, about the wrong decision to attach the Factor Bank and Probank to a bad bank. You yourself have acknowledged that this is also the result of this, but then it should be stressed that we have given taxpayers EUR 50 million to recapitalise this company. How many extraordinary events will there be at the DUTB? What's going to happen to T2? Compensation claims have already been sent. Will there then be an extraordinary event again in 2017? I want to know: What will you, as Minister of Finance, propose to the Government as a congregation or a society that this management will improve? What result can we expect in 2017?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u135	Madam Minister, please, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u136	The extraordinary events I was talking about are not exceptional events resulting from the operation of the company, but are measures or additional measures imposed on the company by the Government as a assembly for implementation. For this reason, I cannot accept the assessment that the DUTB, which carried out the decisions imposed on it and minimised the impact of these measures on the company's business result, is to assess the company as a business failure. I estimate that the company fully fulfils the mission for which the company was established. I estimate that even in 2016, in line with the quantified indicators, the company met the expectations set by the State to the company in the form of the above-mentioned economic return indicator, could also mention the debt payment indicator or the payment of the assets in management by the end of last year, by almost 43% of the carry-over value. It is crucial, as I mentioned, to enable the company to carry out activities in accordance with the strategy adopted and to pursue the objectives set by the Government with criteria and performance indicators. As for wages and allowances, these are the issues that employed us in much of last year's work, the explanations were then given. The part under the authority of the Government was also verified, explained both at the government's own meeting and in the National Assembly and the public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u137	Mr Marko Ferruga will ask the question of the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Peter Gasperšić. Here you go, Mr. Ferruga.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u138	Thank you for your word. Greetings to the Minister and the Ministers! Ten. 6. There was a serious traffic accident in the village of Čežarje in Koper. The locals have been warning for many years that the road is unadapted to the situation, that traffic is actually taking place there, that people are avoiding vignettes, that the transition is also towards Croatia and that there are very busy roads here in the summer. Otherwise it is this regional road of the third order, but no matter what, this accident has once again aroused great anger in the local community and between the local population itself, precisely because the road allows extremely high speeds in the very core of this village, which extends to the left of this road, and there was an accident in which the mother and daughter were injured and the driver fled. The representatives of the local community have been trying for 15 years to prove to the state in some way that there must be some obstacles, measures to limit speed, but somehow there is no great hearing. They also asked for it again in 2013. Indeed, in 2014, the country provided a speedy barrier at kindergarten and at a cooperative home, but this is generally not enough. I therefore ask you as the competent minister: How could this traffic be calmed through the settlement at this particular location? Are you planning any solutions? Do you have any move now, it is said, in a short time that we could arrange this untenable traffic because you yourself know that traffic density is also very high? While the locals suggest that for traffic coming from places over St. Anton, he should switch to Kubed-Rižana-Koper Road. I am interested in the assessment of this proposal, or if you have any other proposal for this matter to calm down and that somehow in the most populous part, we would try to calm the traffic somehow. I know that people are so different and so different that one of them will take this into account, and one of them will not, even if we make the law, but at least in some way listen to the people who live there. If we can take them one step at a time, they will be grateful to you and to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u139	Minister Peter Gasperšič, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u140	Thank you, Chairman for your word. Thank you, honourable Member, Mr Mark Ferruga, for the question raised. I understand the problem with which you inform us that this section has been experiencing these problems for a long time with increased traffic, especially during the summertime, and that this disaster has further exacerbated matters and that the locals want some appropriate solutions more. At the outset, I would like to point out that the Infrastructure Directorate, at the request of the local refugee-Cježari community, replied in July 2013, explaining that, in accordance with the Roads Act, measures to calm public road traffic within the settlement are a competent municipality. I'm afraid right now there's some sort of core misunderstanding, because of these views, who is now obliged to do something. At that time, the local community was also aware of the conditions to be met for the implementation of these traffic calming devices and that it was necessary to approach the appropriate production of the project technical documentation for which the investor, i.e. the municipality, must then obtain agreement from the Slovenian Infrastructure Directorate. I reiterate that the local community is responsible for the implementation of various measures to calm intra-community traffic, even if this is a state road. Speed barriers can, of course, be implemented in accordance with the rules on road design if it is not possible otherwise to ensure the desired speed of vehicles. I would also like to point out here that traffic mitigation measures need to be justified, including on the basis of police data on a greater proportion of the continued failure to respect speed limits over a longer period of time and data on the number of accidents on this part of the state road. I suppose this part would be justified, as I understand it, by your questions. When setting these barriers, it should also be ensured that public passenger transport is carried out along the roads, that restrictions are also laid down for the provision of bus services. Then these traffic calming measures, such as those to the police, are carried out as a rule in the vicinity or in the bus stop area itself, in order to minimise bus traffic. I would also say that other conditions such as the slopes of the road, the possible implementation of the winter service, which would probably not be a problem, should be taken into account. In regulating these physical obstacles, it should also be noted that the physical barrier itself can cause some other unpleasant, particularly noise effects that may also be disruptive for the nearby residents, so that this should also be taken into account. With regard to the proposal to redirect traffic to an alternative road, I would say, however, that the Roads Act in Article 3 provides that public roads are transport areas of general importance to transport and can be freely used by everyone in the manner and under the conditions laid down by the rules governing roads and road traffic rules. In short, in principle, a public road categorised as a public road is publicly accessible under the same conditions for all users. The Roads Act in Article 65 lays down certain individual exceptions when such restrictions on the use of a public road are permissible, but I must say that non-compliance with traffic regulations, such as in this case, does not, for example, constitute a speed violation, one of the reasons why traffic is allowed to be diverted to another road. So we really stay on this, I hope, I hope that there will be some appropriate measures to calm traffic, while redirection, as I know it, would not be possible in this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u141	Mr. Marko Ferruga, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u142	Thank you. If I understand you correctly, Mr. Minister, our distinguished mayor, he has every opportunity to arrange for this part of the population within the population at the initiative of the local community. Did I get it right? It is said that the local community will give an initiative and the Municipality of Koper is in charge or must somehow do it according to all these parameters that you have said. That's what I was wondering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u143	Thank you very much. We continue with Mrs. Violeto Tomić. It will raise the question of the question of the question to the Minister for Culture, Mr Anton Persak. Here you go, Mrs. Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u144	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. At the 19th meeting of the Committee on Culture, convened by us in the United Left, the following decision was adopted: "The Committee on Culture calls on the Ministry of Culture to form a working group composed of self-employed persons and representatives of the professional public as soon as possible, which will review the criteria and prepare more appropriate solutions for the situation of self-employed persons. Solutions, including an assessment of the financial impact of any proposed solutions, shall be forwarded to the Ministry of Culture by 1 March 2017 at the latest to the competent Committee on Culture." Now we know that the socio-economic situation of self-employed people in culture is very poor, very attractive, because this is a very large group of reptiles. And we also know that one third of self-employed people in culture live below the poverty line. We called an urgent meeting in December because the new Regulation on self-employed persons at the time of adoption met with great disapproval of the professional and cultural public. Then there were partial repairs. However, due to the deadlines in the law, the content of the regulation was not prepared in the dialogue with the professional interested public. The lack of compliance and dissatisfaction with the regulation were confirmed in the Committee debate and, as a result, the above-mentioned decision was adopted. Minister, you already said at the committee meeting that the deadline for drafting the new regulation was unrealistic, so we expected a few weeks' delay, but the expected changes are now almost four months late. The inactivity of the Ministry of Culture is further negative foreshadowed by the fact that, despite a short mandate, the temporary expert group managed to draw up a comprehensive set of proposals in a timely manner to improve the situation of self-employed people in culture. I therefore ask you in this regard: When will you at the Ministry examine the work of an expert group to review the criteria for the Regulation on Self-employed in Culture, which completed its work at the end of February? I also want to know: Does the Ministry intend to draw up a new Regulation for self-employed persons in culture according to the baselines prepared by this previously mentioned expert group? Does the Ministry intend to include in the proposal for a new national cultural programme a new model for regulating the self-employed and what solutions will be proposed in this regard? Thanks for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u145	Mr Anton Peršak, Minister for Culture, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u146	Thank you for asking. First of all, the Ministry has reviewed the report of the Working Group on the review of criteria for specialised professions in the field of culture, which are a condition under the regulation for obtaining status or the right to pay contributions. The report of the Working Group on the review of criteria for specialised professions in culture was included on the agenda of the Working Group on permanent dialogue among self-employed persons on 7 March, which it did not consider at this meeting because it did not reach this point. Later, this group for permanent dialogue was called on twice, but once it set a different agenda and failed to meet in an appropriate session or sufficient work. But let me say that the working group proposes two. It proposes the classification of new professions among self-employed people in culture, and this type of professions that do not belong to creative or artistic professions or professional professions, but – as an example – light designer is supposed to be the one installing light bodies to illuminate important buildings, or teachers, or directors secretary, or something like that. It also proposes substantial easing of the criteria for determining the right to payment of contributions or, even so, the omission of the criteria. In this regard, let me say that we have reviewed how the new criteria work, and in January, the expert committee has also considered the applications that have been submitted in the old way, according to the old regulation, and they have also been dealt with in accordance with the old regulation. It dealt with 134 applications, of which 69 were positively resolved, 38 were negative, which means that 28 percent of the applicants were rejected. From 1 February to the end of May, it dealt with 293 applications under the new regulation, with a positive resolution of 241, a negative 52, representing 17.7%. Thus, 10 % less was rejected than under the old regulation, following the one in force in 2016 and before. Furthermore, the Ministry considers that the proposed changes, the real relief or even suspension in certain cases, would of course bring additional financial burdens, unpredictable, although the working group, whose task is also to assess the financial effects, did not make this assessment, but somehow expects the Ministry to make that assessment. As far as the report is concerned. We agree with the report in that part that systemic changes are needed in the area of self-employed persons, but we think, and also their report lists cases that can only be addressed by law rather than by regulation. It is said that legal changes are needed, and we plan for complexity because there are a number of types of self-employed – those who work in occupations where jobs are not even possible – are those who work in jobs where they are employed and work as a rule under future contracts and so on – that this area must be regulated by law. In particular, the law should regulate the conditions for the self-employment of this professional activity in the field of culture, then the conditions for obtaining status according to different groups of self-employed persons, then the conditions for obtaining the right to pay social security contributions from the State budget, of course the proper evaluation of the work of self-employed persons in all contracting authorities, not only in public institutions, and of course the regulation of the right to trade union organisation and collective bargaining of self-employed persons.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u147	Mrs Violeta Tomić, you have the floor to request a reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u148	Thank you, Minister. You will have the opportunity to complete the response, because at the Working Group on Permanent Dialogue with the Self-Employed You have said that at the Ministry you will be studying the work of this group by May, now we are somewhere in the second half of June. I must say that the Committee on Culture in the National Assembly is very rarely in session, and it seems that you are also working a little slower in the ministry. I hope that makes it even more thorough. That's why I'm very clearly interested in two: Firstly, I am interested in the indicative timetable for further steps to be taken to amend the Regulation on Self-employed in Culture. Second of all, I want to know: Which way are you thinking about whether the current model will remain or whether there will be any changes and what concrete changes? In fact, there have been worrying changes in the status of self-employed people in the culture in which they want to divide self-employed people into so-called author and non-author professions in the starting points for the reconstruction of the cultural model and some of your performances in recent weeks. We're afraid this is a false dilemma. On the one hand, the definition of authorship in modern art, which usually works collectively, is now very difficult to define. For example, the book cannot be produced without a writer, a lecturer, an editor, a designer, an publisher, and so on. On the other hand, we fear that it is again a matter of saving, and in such a way as to somehow reduce the number of self-employed people in the culture who would have the right to pay for the contribution, with the excuse that, for example, some professions can survive without it on the market — for example, producers. In short, we need to know and realize that there is no market in culture at all and therefore it is very difficult to survive on this market. Non-governmental organisations are also totally dependent on state funding. Another question: When will the National Programme for Culture be ready, because the new national programme for culture, at least until this point, unfortunately does not arise in the dialogue with the professional public? What about Zujik? Can we expect any changes in this mandate? [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u149	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u150	There's more than one question, so I'll probably be able to answer just a few questions. First of all, let me say that self-employed people should be divided according to what professions are copyrighted or creative and which are not that they have not been able to unite a working group in this regard, because a certain part of the working group has advocated one solution and another part. So it's not just that the ministry thinks there's a difference here, but it's that the sphere of culture thinks so itself. One part of the sphere thinks so, the other part thinks so. It is logical that, in order to make a distinction, the representatives of those professions, which are highly artistic, creative and so on, which is not so small, and that not only are representatives of those areas, but not so many professions, where there are some more creative industries and, of course, there are many supportive or additional professions, but, of course, the question has been asked whether any electrician can already be self-employed in the field of culture, or can any driver and so on. No matter how much he's involved in filmmaking, let's say. As regards the market in culture, of course there is a market in certain parts, there is also a private sector in Slovenia in the area of culture, not NGOs. For the non-governmental sector, for example, is unprofitable, there is a rather developed private sector in the field of culture, only that we usually do not perceive it because we think it is a trivial culture or that it is a pure economy. But also the legitimate parts of the whole area, such as publishing, the film industry, is, last but not least, the private sector, a large part of some other sectors is completely private and operates according to the principles of economic activity. And this is not even as unsuccessful as it sometimes seems, according to some of the data we have acquired right now when we are preparing a new national programme. The new NPK is preparing and it is not true that it is not being prepared in cooperation with the public. We had more than 100 meetings and also a lot of broad meetings in relation to, say, some material that we called the starting point. And ZUIJK, as you probably know, [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u151	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mrs Violeta Tomić, please, you have the floor for the procedural proposal for a debate at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u152	Minister, you have described the situation in culture beautifully, but I miss the specific answers to my questions: When will the National Programme for Culture be ready? You have also mentioned ZUJIK in the end and: Will ZUJIK be ready for this term and can we expect him? The deadline for the regulation was also a very specific question, which unfortunately I did not get an answer to. I therefore hope that we will have this opportunity in the debate and therefore, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I wish to discuss this at the meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u153	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 20 June, in the framework of the votes. Dr Dragan Matić will ask the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Magnificent Nutrition a question. To dean jedan, who today is excused absent. Dr. Matić, I ask you to make your statement whether you want an answer in writing or in oral form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u154	Thank you for your word, chairman. Wood is one of the rare domestic raw materials that we have available in considerable quantities and is therefore very important for Slovenia. We can probably agree that it is more reasonable to process wood at home than simply to export it. Wood processing, which will be competitive, cannot be carried out without modern materials supported by the wood processing industry and the establishment of forest-forest chains with the aim of producing wood products of high value added. The organisation of wood collection or processing centres is expected to be in line with the baselines adopted by the Government in November 2016 and should be accurately included in the Strategic Plan of Action of the Slovenian State Forests for the period 2017-2026. Although this company submitted a strategic business plan at the end of the year, since it was not prepared according to the government’s starting points, the Government has not yet addressed it. In recent times, reports in the media showing the comparison with Croatia have also appeared on the operation of the said state-owned company. This comparison shows that the operation of the Croatian State Forestry Company is extremely transparent and data on the sale of timber are publicly available. However, the situation is different for us, although Slovenia and Croatia are members of the same European Union and thus are both subject to the same rules. There is also a public impression that our state-owned company does not act transparently. The Slovenian National Forest Company still does not want to disclose to whom and at what price it sold this year a refrigerator owned by all citizens. With regard to what I have said, I would like to know: First time. When will the Government consider the Strategic Business Plan of the Slovenian State Forests for the period 2017-2026? Another time. What does the Government intend to do to make its starting points for the strategic business plan of this company dealing with state forests operational? Third time. Why are the names of buyers or sales prices of forest products not made public, or when will they be? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u155	In writing, Dr. Matić? In oral or written form? Get up. Thank you. Mrs Nada Brinovšek will ask the Minister for the Environment and Space of Mrs Irena Majcen, who is excusedly absent. I will also ask you to express yourself in what form you want the answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u156	Thank you for your word. Well, I'd like an answer in writing. During the autumn 2015, the Ministry of the Environment prepared a draft plan to reduce flood risk. The plan was also presented throughout Slovenia in 2015 and there were quite a few comments on it. In December 2016, the Minister said about my question on the flood risk reduction plan that an environmental report was being prepared and that a draft plan would be prepared in early 2017 and presented again by the Ministry throughout Slovenia. The Minister also said at the December meeting that the Government would adopt a plan to reduce the flood threat in June 2017. Now, June is here, there is no plan to reduce flood risk, nor are there any public presentations promised. A civil initiative was appointed in the Upper Savinja Valley in 2015, which constantly alerts the Ministry to the dangers and damage caused by the Savinja River in the aftermath of the floods. The Civil Initiative was also informed that there is no reduction of the flood risk in the upper Savinja River. In this regard, I am interested in: When, according to the minister's promises, will the plan be made public again? Will it be possible to make comments after the public presentation? Why is there no upper-flow of Savinja River in the design of the plan? In the last ten years, the Savinja River has been known to have done 25 million damage to the flood. I also want to know: When does the ministry assume that a plan to reduce flood risk will be completed? As has already been said, the Minister has promised that this plan to reduce flood risk will be completed and forwarded to the Government by June 2017. Thanks for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u157	Thank you very much, Mrs. Brinovšek. We continue with the question of the Member States. Mrs Iva Dimic is addressing the question of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Mrs Anjo Kopač Mrak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Dear Madam Secretary! I am interested in the implementation of the project and in the dynamics of spending in the restructuring of the social work centres of the Republic of Slovenia and in the preparation and implementation of the communication strategy in support of CSD reorganisation. In our opinion, according to the New Slovenia Group, the cost of dizzying 121 000 euros is a very high cost, which is more than the Ministry has devoted to public relations in all years since 2007. I also want to know: How did you hire an international firm to advise you? I am sure that the Department of Public Relations of your Ministry knows better the situation in Slovenia, Slovenian reality and the situation in social work centres throughout Slovenia as an external company. I'm curious how you're going to comment. [[…]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u159	Madam Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u160	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Your Honor, thank you for asking. The Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities is on the basis of a public contract, published 31. 3. 2016, with A. T. Kearney consulting, d.o.o., based in Ljubljana, concluded in October 2016 a contract for the implementation of project management services and the implementation of the communication strategy for the restructuring of social work centres of the Republic of Slovenia. The contractor of the contract works in cooperation with the consortium partner, Pristop d. o. o. A. T. Kearney, advice, and Accession provide support services in project management and in the preparation and implementation of the communication strategy in support of the reorganisation of social work centres. It is important to understand, however, that last year's plan for the reorganisation of social work centres was prepared by a project group composed of employees at the Ministry, since the proposed substantive solutions included in the reorganisation are the result of a change in organisational structure, social activation and an information decision, which is the result of the Ministry's internal resources. The project group is led by Tanja Amon, Director General of the Directorate for Social Affairs. A wider team of experts from the Ministry, including co-workers in the field of public relations, is also actively involved in the implementation of the restructuring plan for social activation and information decision-making. It must be said, however, that we have two employees in the whole of Pier service, so that this is probably one of the lowest numbers in the state administration. We did not hire external advisers because they would better know Slovenian reality and the situation in social work centres, but because of their specific competence in project management and management and communication of changes. In fact, you must be aware that such a complex project, which coincides with the reorganisation, is an organisational change, social activation, an information decision, is a project for each other and unfortunately we do not have enough knowledge to run such demanding projects. It was urgent to help someone outside who was advising you to make changes. And it is a fact; yes, indeed, there were none of these funds, but first you received all the information in the written parliamentary question you raised. I looked at it, too. The fact is that the reorganisation of social work centres has never been adopted in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I hope that it will also be confirmed in the National Assembly and that we will bring this project to an end. This is a major reorganisation in the field, if you wish, of the functioning of the public administration in our country, and I believe that without the help of the best team at the Ministry of Labour, but without this external assistance, which has also been very actively involved in communication, that we have conducted communication so internally We have introduced a communication strategy for all employees to be aware of the changes that are taking place. [[…]] All of this is simple with people who have provided substantive coverage to us, but they could not lead all of these changes in a way. However, they were selected on a public invitation to tender. That's what you have to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u161	Mrs. Iva Dimic, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u162	Thank you very much. I believe the projects are difficult, so I was sure you knew that even before you embarked on some reorganisation of social work centres. However, I still think that as a ministry, you have enough people, you know the situation in Slovenia, you know the centres for social work, you know the specifics, and you don't have to pay a branch of a foreign company EUR 121 000. In particular, if I look in the light, it seems to me that it would be more prudent to devote this amount still to remedy backlogs in the resolution of complaints concerning UPJS at the second stage, which, according to the latest data, are increasing again. Anyway, I'm curious: How much money did you spend on these backlogs in 2016 and 2017? To see what the priority is, not least the Ministry. I believe that you need some reorganisation of social work centres, and on the other hand, we have citizens who cannot and cannot, because of the delays in the ministry, come to some right or fair pay and, of course, to new decisions. Finally, I am still very much speaking under the impression of reduced funds also for the VDC, which also belong to your ministry, and about the housing units that people with disabilities need. It seems to me that this amount of VDC in Slovenia would be very happy.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u163	Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u164	In particular, the reorganisation needs all citizens and citizens, and we have therefore taken a responsible approach to one of the most difficult projects in recent times at the Ministry of Labour. The fact is that the information decision is one of the key simplifications and will also reduce backlogs. Otherwise, unfortunately, it is not possible; if I could use this 121 000 to remedy the backlogs, I would, but unfortunately I cannot, because we are in line with the human resources plan, which is a common human resources plan. And if you look at it, the Ministry of Labour has repeatedly submitted a request to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to increase the staffing plan so that things can be resolved. You know so well that money for one thing — unfortunately, with this money, I cannot provide additional employment because I am limited to the human resources plan. The fact is that the number of employees in the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs decreased by 38 in 2012. To make such a reduction of the ministry – there was no comparison with any other ministry, they even cut salaries at the Ministry of Labour because this ministry was led by the need to save money, which we are still paying today, because I cannot achieve that then suddenly more jobs, and we are still strong under the 2008 issue. These are unfortunately facts and with money that doesn't. Otherwise, I would absolutely. [[…]] Solving complaints is problematic. We're doing our best, but seven public servants are doing it. But the fact is, we can't do that outsourcing, so it's not a service that anyone else could do outside to solve a second-degree decision, which you probably know. With regard to the VDC, I must say that in this mandate, as far as the solution was concerned, it has not been in the last six, seven years. Also building I think I am – VDC Nova Gorica So also a few funds was for this purpose, so please, 121 000 is a large amount that we will not. [[…]] But for the help we have received, and if we can bring this project together so that we have the support of all stakeholders, which means that everyone feels involved, I believe it was worth spending. The greatest result will be if all citizens and citizens are finally satisfied with this reorganisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u165	Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar will ask the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Dr Anji Kopač Dark. Here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u166	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. All present, distinguished Madam Minister! From 1999 onwards, a pension system is being created, which is becoming increasingly unfair, as the material and social situation of the pensioners is rapidly deteriorating. Many pensions are no longer enough for a decent life. More than 46% of pensioners have a retirement pension of less than 600 euros. In 2015, the poverty risk line was €617 and nearly 63% of pensioners had a lower retirement pension than €700. According to data from the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance in 1999, the average age pension amounted to EUR 345 and EUR 612.64 in 2016, an increase of 77.6 per cent. During this period inflation increased by 95.3 per cent, meaning that the average age pension was lagged behind by inflation by 17.7 per cent, which means a real reduction in the value of the average age pension. Despite the extension of the working time of the pensioners during this period, the retirement age has also risen. The average net salary increased by 125.9 per cent between 1999 and the end of 2016, which is 5.2 percentage points lower than the gross social product grew at that time – I am talking about current prices. This means that the average age pension in this period has been left behind by net wages of 48.3 percentage points and by 53.5 percentage points for GDP. The average net old-age pension, which amounted to 75 per cent of the average net salary in 1999, is only 59.5 per cent of the average net salary in 2016. I can only call this a systemic deprivation of pensioners for a worthy age. Thus, since 1999, pensioners have not participated at all in economic growth, even though they have created the property that has generated this economic growth, which has taken advantage of others since independence. That's why I want to know: Will and what will the ministry do to bring about a more just pension system and decent pensions? After the independence of Slovenia, an extremely unfair pension system was created with which the system of the elderly are systematically poor. They are no longer able to work, nor are they able to resist poverty. Since retired generations have created a huge social asset that flows into private pockets, it is a systematic robbery of older generations. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u167	Minister Anja Kopač Dark has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u168	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Member, Mrs Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, thank you for the question. The fact is that the deterioration of the pension situation was affected by the pension reform of 2000, which brought a lower rate of pensions, and it was precisely the abolition of this pension decline that was the main objective of the 2010 pension reform, which was later rejected at the referendum. I am pleased, however, that the 2012 reform has also followed this objective and has halted the fall in pensions. It provides a more favourable method of dosage of pensions established by PIZ-2 from 2012, on the other hand, and also stops the fall in pensions, which in previous legislation was due to the way in which so-called valorisation coefficients and lower dose percentages are determined. With regard to the allegations that the material situation of Slovenian pensioners is deteriorating, I would like to explain that the data of the PPIZ for 2016 shows that the real value of pensions has increased over the last two years, by a small 0.1 per cent in 2015 and in 2016 to 0.4 per cent, but does not decrease, does not fall. I also explain that last year a special section prepared the White Paper on pensions, which led to an intensive discussion with the social partners in the past and early this year on possible future changes in pension insurance. This one document will also be accepted in the information of the Government and the Economic and Social Council will also be considered as one of the important aspects of the provision to agree on an appropriate level of pensions with a minimum replacement rate of 70 per cent after the end of all transitional periods. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has responded to the initiative of the Association of Retired Persons of Slovenia, and this year has also successfully proposed a change to pension legislation – a minimum pension of EUR 500. The last reform prevented retirement under the conditions of 20 years of retirement and 61 years of age for women and 63 years of age for men, as it was found that the length of the contribution period was strongly affected by the underage or lower pension. If we look at it, Slovenia – the average gross retirement pension for 40 years is €813.37, which is 18% more than the average of all retirements aged 688.77. You may also have mentioned the value you stated for disabled people and others, widows and families. In age, the data on PIZ is the same as I'm saying. The fact is that the poor material situation of pensioners in recent years has also been strongly affected by the restriction on the coordination of pensions, which means that with ZUJF limited coordination has its consequences. That's what the government's already done. Pensions have already been adjusted by 1.1 per cent over the previous year instead of 0.4 per cent, which would amount to real harmonisation after the ZPIZ, but also this year's harmonisation was 1.15 per cent if after the ZPIZ-2 they were aligned, i.e. normal harmonisation, regular harmonisation, this alignment would be 1.1 per cent. So no system of pensions is actually at the end of the labour market. [[...]] You've given us a good description of what was going on with the wages. Of course, on average, there are many things that make it possible, but within this there are many differences. The fact is that the system will be in place in the future after 2025, because reform will have to take care of a long enough working time and at the same time a replacement relationship that will provide a more decent pension than it is today. Of course, it also stems from the amount of income that employees have during their active period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u169	Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, you have the floor to request an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u170	Thank you very much. While slight efforts exist, they are not sufficient. According to the data provided by ZPIZ, the average net old-age pension continues to fall to an average net salary. At the end of 2016, as I said, this ratio was 59.5%. Today, because of the unfair pension system and social security systems, 78 000 people are living below the poverty threshold and many are living around this threshold. Your ministry has not made provision for the establishment of a system of long-term care for the elderly during this period, but for a more just pension and social system. Unfortunately, during this period, public money was allowed to pay profits to private companies operating in the social and health sectors. Instead of urgent corrections to criminal legislation, the Ministry has drawn up proposals from the White Paper that would further aggravate the material situation of pensioners if implemented. We can also be concerned about how deep down the baby-boom generation will fall, which will retire in the next decade. That's why, Madam Secretary, I'm asking you: How much further should Slovenia move away from the OECD recommendations over the coming years, after which the average pension is expected to be 70 per cent of the average wage? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Dr. Anya Kopač Dark, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u172	Thank you for your word. I may reiterate that the White Paper prepared by the Ministry is an expert document, which, as it were, has been given to public debate. I have already said that more than a year and a half have been debated to draw conclusions, and one of these conclusions is to ensure a 70% replacement ratio in the future; that is, what you have highlighted – the OECD. Since you're saying there's no White Paper, I'm telling you that the White Paper contains this. As far as the pension system is concerned, you made it very clear at the beginning of your question that the situation today is due to changes in 1999, particularly the then established reforms of 2000. Of course, we can take the changes forward in a responsible way. Everything that's been going on is difficult to change. As far as long-term care is concerned, it would be absolutely necessary, but this year, at the request of the President of the Government, as you know, this has been transferred to the Ministry of Health, so that I am probably not the most suited for this issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert will ask the Minister of Finance mags a question. Matei Vraničnik Erman and Minister of Justice Mag. Goran Klemenčich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u174	Thank you very much, Chairman. Yes, I am referring to both ministers. It's a problem that's been going on for years. It's about so-called borrowers who have been borrowing loans in so-called Swiss francs there 12 years ago. This is a problem that is not only known in the Slovenian space, of course, but is also known more widely, in the European and also in the Balkans. The fact is that among all these countries Slovenia is the only one who has not done practically nothing here. The fact is that the so-called borrowers received data on credit contracts so that the currency could fluctuate up to 2 and 3 percent. Here before me is even a flyer talking about this – “Resist on a solid currency” – and underlines how reliable the credit is in the so-called Swiss francs. It is about citizens and citizens taking loans from the banks after the so-called Black Friday, which was somewhere on 15 January 2015, which has become literally murderous. Today, people not only lose property, break up families, people take lives because they don't really know how to get out of the situation. Just to make a comparison, the fact is that so the capital and then interest somehow jumped to 64%, and someone who took credit 12 years ago, I don't know, worth EUR 209,000, paid up to EUR 110 000 in that period, today owes 264,000 euros. That means more than he hired the loan himself. People then asked for things to change and adapt to the euro, but the banks said there was no need and that the currency would remain stable. After this event, everything is quiet, the banks have washed their hands because our country allows it, while other countries do not allow it, and they resolve matters both on the legal side for the benefit of the borrowers and for the benefit of the legal salary. That is true, it also shows that banks have literally started selling these claims to individual companies, and we can call them suspicious circumstances, given that they sell them by 20 percent of their value. It means that the banks obviously settled everything, paid off, and now they're selling it for 20 percent, while there was no hearing for the borrowers. I'm not interested in what you said to Soltes and so on, but: What will the state do? But I'm asking both ministers because it's also the Bond Code. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mag. Matthew Vranick Erman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u176	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr Vice-President, and thank you for the question. In solving this problem, which we are aware of in every way, Slovenia is the only country that has the euro for its national currency among the countries mentioned or mentioned as Balkan countries or countries in the area of the former Yugoslavia. This means that the Republic of Slovenia does not have leverage to influence the exchange ratio between the euro and the Swiss franc. Thus, not at a time when the Swiss franc was considered a solid currency, nor at a later time when the effects of monetary measures and open market transactions carried out by the Swiss Central Bank resulted in a change in value. Finally, it should also be noted that the actions of some other countries which are bound by European rules, in particular the rules of the free movement contract and the uniform recommendations, are reviewed and assessed by the European Commission, which rightly assesses that the measures taken are neither proportionate nor burden-sharing because they place the burden on banks. Finally, it should also be mentioned that there is a legal relationship between the debtors and the bank. Nevertheless, the state did not do everything or do nothing. At the beginning of 2015, we discussed the matter together with several stakeholders, both with civil initiatives and with Banka Slovenije, the Association of Banks, and prepared a written statement on the possibilities and rights of the holders of loans in Swiss francs, and referred them to solve the problems arising from growth directly with regard to banks. Why? Because it's about civil relations between the individual borrower and the bank. The current legislation already lays down in detail the rules which must be respected at the time of the conclusion of the credit agreement and which are incorporated into the Consumer Credit Act, the Consumer Protection Act and the provisions of the Bond Code. In our view, the laws in force constitute an appropriate legal framework and we do not plan any additional legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mag. Goran Klemenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u178	Dear Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Member, other Members and Members of Parliament, my colleague! All I would add is that the actual situation from country to country is different. In France, for example, this was also carried out through criminal proceedings, but it was a specific situation where a direct conflict or criminal association was established between the largest real estate agency in France and one of the banks. Otherwise, as the colleague said, 2016, December 2016, a new Consumer Credit Act was adopted, which regulates this area better. In the area of alleged mass damage, however, we confirmed the text of the Collective Actions Act last week in the Government, which also addresses such issues. When we met at the Ministry last year, I think that at the beginning of last year with representatives of the Frank Civil Initiative, we were further urged to speed up the establishment of a legal basis that would also facilitate the so-called collective action or collective enforcement of compensation actions in the Republic of Slovenia. The purpose of the collective action, which, as it is said, has passed into the government procedure and will be before you Members in the autumn, is also to improve access to judicial protection and to ensure the exercise of the rights of individuals violated in cases of mass injury and the deterrence of potential violators from unlawful conduct. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Are you asking me to complete the answer? Mrs. Anya Bah Gibert? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Minister, I said that the so-called countries of the former Yugoslavia were among them. Now listen, we have Austria – a ban on lending in foreign currency, a currency clause zero if the borrower has not been informed of the risks in a qualitative and evidential way. I told you they weren't. Hungary – the banks had to return all the undue revenue generated by the exchange rate difference within 90 days. Greece – Borrowers must pay after the exchange on the day of the loan. With us, they have to pay 64 percent of the principal, respected. Poland – mass judgments in favour of borrowers. Italy — zero currency clauses. France – the minister has already said something, but the fact is that all foreign currency loans are also null and void. This is in France and this is also evident from the documents. Now, Minister, I ask you: You're saying you won't do anything for citizens and citizens? Now on the other side of it, both of you. Minister, your associate is also Dr. Boštjan M. Zupančič. He has now drawn up a legal opinion and the matter goes to the Constitutional Court. We've got individual lawsuits coming down. They will also come before the Supreme Court, before the Constitution, and now the case will come before the European Court of Justice. Now you two are answering me together essentially that now all citizens and citizens will be paying because you are unable to regulate matters legally, and the banks that did this deliberately knew what was going on, the Bank of Slovenia warned them, and these loans were still being offered, you say you will not do anything. Look, the co-workers at the Ministry are writing legal opinions saying that the case will fall before the European Court of Justice. But here we move around and say, we're not gonna do anything. Please. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Mag. Matthew Vranick Erman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u182	The legal framework within which the procedure can be pursued shall be designed and shall be in force. Most of the measures referred to by you are actions carried out in judicial proceedings in specific disputes led by individual borrowers to creditors or banks. Such procedures and such disputes are also ongoing with us. And if it is possible for each bank to prove that it actually failed to determine the credit conditions, then this will be determined not from the point of view of the Ministry, but in a particular court case. As a regulated company, we have established certain rules that we just have to respect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mag. Goran Klemenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u184	Just for a little while. As it is said, individual procedures are under way, do not assume that we will not do anything. As it is said, last week the government approved the collective action law, which is intended for this type of mass injury, not for prejudicing who was right and who was wrong, but for speeding up and deciding the whole group more quickly. Now the question, of course, such a law will continue, is that we have only so far not had it, for the first time we have remembered that it would also, by the way, for environmental damage. [[…]] That's it. That legal opinion, no matter how much I respect Prof. Boštjan M. Zupančič, is his opinion or the opinion of the Institute in law school, but not the opinion of the Ministry of Justice, which cannot be expressed in concrete court proceedings, which I believe you understand.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, do you request a debate in the National Assembly? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u186	Of course, absolutely, because it's the transfer of the Minister of Finance first. See, here I have another flyer like this, see what it says on this flyer: “A permanent loan with a currency clause in Swiss francs is the ideal solution to ensure that the amount of monthly immunity will not increase significantly.” It is the direct deception of citizens and citizens. Simple citizens and citizens and you say the court will settle! Despite such leaflets, the court says that everything was fine, and if we are a regulated state, at least as far as the courts are concerned, look, we are all quiet together. In our case, lawsuits in the European Court of Justice are falling like a running lane. This is, of course, Dr. Boštjana M. Zupančič and it is also Dr. Cyril Ribičič, you all know him better than I do. The fact is that one of them was a constitutional judge and the other was in the European Court of Justice and they both made it clear that the matter for Slovenia would fall. But the difference between you and us is obvious that this case will take time to come before the European Court and then be paid by all citizens and citizens. Because, of course, as you said, this law you're preparing will work forward, and I'm interested in: What are we going to do for these people to squeeze the banks that did this? And the other countries have solved it! Also for your sakes, Your Honor, because they didn't work forward, because I told you in my yearbooks! So only Slovenia is here to a unique person who is unable to solve this. And we will be paying again because it is obviously not worth 16 000 citizens and citizens and their families – that is, 50,000 people, respected, framework – who are suffering today because we are not capable of solving things, obviously in the image of other countries of the European Union. I ask and call for us to have a public debate and here I call on the understanding of the other Members and Members to seek a solution in the example of other countries and to help these people. None of them, Your Honor, want to get anything for free. They're willing to pay interest, which, of course, is normal. Today, we know that we even have a marriage to which these things can jump. He wasn't there at the time. Things need to be corrected in general. Back to square one. And it's not true you can't! It is necessary to have the will to do so, and I therefore hope that the debate in the National Assembly will contribute to this. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u187	Thank you very much. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u188	Let's settle things legally. [[…]] That's what I'm calling here once again, helping fellow citizens and citizens, not wanting anything for free, not wanting anything to give them, just fair treatment.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u189	Thank you very much, Mrs. Anya Bah Gibert. The National Assembly will decide on your proposal tomorrow, 20. 6. In the context of the votes. Mr Miha Kordiš will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Dr Anji Kopač Dark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u190	Thank you for your word, chairman. My question is simple and it reads: Why is social assistance still 92 euros lower than the official estimate of minimum living costs? Why must 39,000 of our population live from 293 euros a month, while the coalition can reduce income by 10 percent of the best wages in the country? In 2009, the last official assessment of the cost of living was produced. Author Nada Spodnik clearly stated in her report that the minimum income for temporary social assistance should be increased to EUR 385. Since then, 8 years have passed, the cost of living has gone up and temporary social assistance amounts to €293. So today we are still at least €92 below the cost of living. You, Minister Anja Kopač Mrak, have been in the Ministry for six years as secretary or minister for the past eight years. You promised in the Social Agreement that in 2016 you would make a new calculation of the minimum cost of living and that you would align them – the amount of social assistance with the minimum cost. You didn't keep that promise. Moreover, you have already received a new calculation in February, and by the end of April you have also received an already completed calculation. So, in your previous session, you lied to me smoothly when you said that the calculations were still in preparation and that when they did, of course, the analysis would follow. It's already an analysis, and you're stalling at the Ministry. And that's not all, after all. Your ministry replied to the diary, and I will quote: “The current priority is the reorganisation of social work centres, so it is only in autumn that we should propose new levels of social transfers.” Dear citizens, dear citizens! The Ministry tells us that they prefer to deal with their own administrative apparatus and themselves rather than our socially disadvantaged people! And that's why I'm asking: Why in God's name are you not proposing a new amount of social assistance, and you are proposing this right now? We've been too late with this for years anyway. Why did you not ensure harmonisation in 2016, as you promised in the Social Agreement? How much should the minimum income for temporary recipients, according to a new estimate, be? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Minister Anja Kopač Dark, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u192	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. Dear Member, thank you for asking. The Ministry invited the submission of an offer to carry out a survey on the minimum cost of living sent 1. Seven. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Institute of Economic Research, the IER with which the contract was signed, was selected. The calculation of the minimum cost of living is based on two basic databases. The first are data on food, quantity and costs for which there is a general acceptance of the standards or Slovenian basket of food, which are composed and evaluated at the National Institute for Public Health. The second basis is research into the use in households, KPG, carried out by the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia. In the past, this household survey was carried out every five years and has now been periodically changed every six years. This was also the reason why a new calculation of the minimum cost of living was foreseen for 2016. Otherwise, we should use a few years old data, but the data of the Statistical Office were only available by the end of 2016, so the IER researcher could not submit the report to us until this year at the beginning of this year. They did it like you said. The Ministry reviewed and made some substantive comments and requested clarifications or additions. These supplements are still being implemented or are still being coordinated. But the thing is not as simple as you paint it. In fact, the minimum income or cost calculation, the minimum cost of living, is indeed the basis for monetary social assistance and a security allowance, but individuals and families do not only receive monetary social assistance, but the weightings are fixed for all family members. And the fact is that despite economic growth, the number of beneficiaries, not recipients, is rising sharply. Therefore, in this study, which will certainly lead to an increase in minimum income, it is necessary to review what this will mean for the family, and also to compare it with the minimum average wage in the Republic of Slovenia. For irresponsibly – and please do not deceive and turn around, saying that I object to raising the minimum income. Certainly, for a single person who lives on only this, €292 is absolutely insufficient. However, when the family fully receives such child allowances, subsidies and the whole package, today the difference between someone who is on financial welfare and those who receive minimum wage is so low that there is a questionable incentive to work. This cannot, however, be a message from the social state, and the Ministry is also carrying out such calculations. And with responsibility we will approach and raise the minimum income, as calculated for single persons, and find responsible solutions, which are not so simple, although it probably seems and is easy to believe that we can. It is unfortunate that when we look at the children's allowance, the subsidies for kindergarten, when we look at the subsidies for lunch and lunch, the situation is the same as it is. And, of course, it is responsible to approach this, that they will not always be more frequent – because they are asking me how they do not get that no one wants to work, and they need to find the right relationship here. However, a rise in minimum income is necessary for single persons who depend solely on this income.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Mr. Miha Kordish, are you asking for an answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u194	Thank you for your word, chairman. Madam Minister, I never argue that you are rhetorically opposed to raising the price of minimum living costs and social assistance, but I simply argue that you are in practice sabotaging this in every way. And I can substantiate this on a pretty good basis, even with a timeline of how it all develops, and not least with such claims, if we know them correctly, with which you have just served. Among them, we must make sure that people are poor enough to be forced to accept any kind of work. Because we both know where the poverty risk threshold is; we both know where the minimum wage is; we both know what the cost is. The only way, the only reason why we don't raise the level of financial social assistance and use the argument that we shouldn't give people too much, because then they won't be interested in work is because they're being held in poverty on purpose. As far as your performances are concerned, more specifically, on today's subject. Okay, let's just say you only got that information in October or later, but since it was already known in advance that this data would only be available at that time. So we should make such a contract so that the research is made as soon as these data are available. After all, this is not about inventing hot water, they only had to enter numbers there in the IER. After all, since the end of April at the Ministry, you have been studying the analysis of Hope Stropnik. This is absolutely enough time to make a proposal. After all, the ministry has a few hundred employees of bureaucrats and it is simply a matter of political will to direct this proposal to raise monetary social assistance.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Dr. Anya Digger Dark, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u196	The system of social transfers in our country is extremely complex. Minimum income is the basis for calculating monetary social assistance, which is a temporary remuneration for those who are temporarily unable to provide themselves with a decent survival and also a basis for calculating the security allowance. At the same time, the recent decline in the share of single families in the number of recipients of financial social assistance and the share of families is increasing, and families need to know that this family has a child allowance and other transfers in addition to financial social assistance and that, when weighted, sustainability is not ensured, in view of the fact that we want people to be poor or to be artificially supported, that they work for less, that they are willing to work. However, it is absurd to expect that, with social transfers, someone can have a difference of 50 euros — according to someone on a minimum wage — and I think there is about 100 euros for someone on average salary. Unfortunately, this is not sustainable and it is necessary to ensure that this does not happen through all calculations. Once again, this does not mean that single persons depend solely on financial social assistance and do not have the right to other family-related social transfers. It is interesting, however, that, in the event of a substantial reduction, which will soon be known, the risk of poverty that is declining, we are increasing the proportion of beneficiaries, not recipients, beneficiaries of monetary social assistance, and here we need some attention and analysis, and this is a responsible policy. If, of course, you think these calculations are so simple, you will be able to put together a government in one day or two or three with bureaucrats who work the way they do. However, I warn you that the bureaucrats you refer to are also workers and workers who probably deserve respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Mr. Miha Kordish, will you thank the procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u198	Of course, I will demand a general debate. I could have asked her about the Minister's arrogance, but I'd rather have her on the content itself. To begin with, we cannot just raise social assistance because the difference to minimum wage is then reduced. You did have a proposal on the table to raise the minimum wage, and what else you have that we've prepared in the United Left. Do you support him? I don't. However, once money social assistance needs to be raised, which is strong below the threshold of poverty risk and leaves people in an extremely poor and poor situation, then the excuse is too small a minimum wage. I mean, Madam Minister, with such an argument, you're splintering the branch you're sitting on. In particular, I demand a general debate because I think that the National Assembly should react when ministers are knowingly lying or knowingly misleading. And not only Members, but especially citizens. This is what the Minister has been doing in connection with this response to this meeting, which she has already done at the previous meeting and I think we should discuss such manipulations. However, the Rules of Procedure stipulate that the Minister must answer questions from Members and Members, so they must not be misled. If he doesn't know if he doesn't know the answer, it can be quiet, he can send a written answer, but he can't make false statements. Here I think the problem is particularly pressing because the most vulnerable strategy of the Slovenian population is at the impact, and those who need social assistance and here at the Ministry are deliberately misleading the political leadership of this ministry not to say "stress". Some informal information can be obtained that, inter alia, because the calculation of the cost of living, the minimum, has shown a little too high, but now they are watching and muttering and moaning about how they will reduce it as much as possible, so that they do not have to raise this financial social assistance or do it at a minimum level. But look, this is unofficial information, so I didn't bother the secretary with it either. But all this, of course, is bob against the wall. What citizens need to know is this: The government deliberately keeps socially disadvantaged people in poverty in order to be forced to accept every job. Government social policy maintains a spare army of labour, which is then forced to enter various Marof trades, IPSs in Luka Koper and other exploiters for its survival. After all, it does not claim that there is no money for higher social assistance. Because raising social assistance to €385 would require between €60 million and €90 million, which does not need to be taxed, there is no need to hire new loans. It is very easy to return the income scale to 2015, where we are currently losing [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordish, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, Tuesday, in the framework of the votes. Mr Franz Breznik will ask the Minister of Finance of Magi. Matei Vraničnik Erman and Minister of Justice Mag. Goran Klemenčich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u200	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Minister, Minister! The next question I have to admit is a little sad, but it concerns one sad situation. Let me say that about three weeks ago, I expressed my sincere condolences to my former war comrade, who died tragically to his son, on May 23rd, on his 20th birthday, he died tragically in the vicinity of Velenje. The boy had been employed for one year and was calculated for 2016 to receive, I think, €190 of income paid back. As you know, income comes for some a little early, for some a little later, this income tax came to the family after the death of this son, so on May 30, he died on May 23. At the exhibition in Velenj, in Durs, it was said that even in the province, the family did not have the right to receive this income from their son. Let me say that the son was single, it's the second line of succession, so it's the parents who inherit who are supposed to inherit. We know, I've looked so far at the law on succession, the principles of the law on succession, the principle of the law on tax procedure. As you know, respected colleagues, if the prisoner also has any debts to the Financial Administration, to the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, these debts also come to the legacy, of course to the height of the estate of the prodigal, for all owners, and now, of course, this rule is unclear. My family doesn't want that money, but it's kind of a sad story. Perhaps for this money, if you were in the legacy, you could light some extra candles on your son’s early grave. But I still feel that there is one sad image of one of our countries, including the parents who lost their son. I therefore ask both of you, both the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Finance: Can this matter be resolved in any way? The explanation of Velenje’s exhibition was that these rights were not exercised by their deceased son. If the deceased son had obtained this decision in that first round, as they say in Styria, he would have received this money, and now his family, even in the context of having received the decision one week after his death, have no right, not in the legacy process either. Thank you for your answer, and thank you, of course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Mag. Matthew Vrančnik Erman, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u202	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! The income is a personal tax and therefore the obligation to pay as well as the right to refund the income paid, the contributions paid in respect of the income shall cease to be a death. The tax procedure law contains in Article 48 more detailed rules as to how the measure is taken and, if the information calculation is already made, the right to recovery, as well as any obligation to pay or to pay the remaining liabilities, is transferred to legal successors, but if the income calculation is not yet issued to and paid to the debtor, then it has not in fact paid or reimbursed any other income. What was paid in the course of the year or before the death of the income is considered a definitive tax. In short, taking into account the legal provisions and taking into account the circumstances that have been explained in your question, I regret to see no other solution than the one indicated by the competent tax office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Mag. Goran Klemenčič, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u204	Thank you very much, Vice President! Your Honor, I didn't quite know what your question would be. Now that I've heard it, there's not much to add to what the Minister of Finance said. This cannot be resolved through the Succession Act or the Bond Code, that is to be understood. A personal tax, either on the burden or on the benefit of an inheritance, arises by issuing, as has been said, an act of informational calculation of the income in this case. No, it is not pleasant to stand like this at a time like this, but I do not see this possibility under existing legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Breznik, please, you are requesting a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u206	Look, I brought the Tax Procedure Act. Of course, the minister correctly stated, it was a personal tax, but she also said in this explanation. The day the decision was issued, so if this boy had died a few days later, he and his parents would have been entitled to these 190 euros. Last but not least, it is not a wealthy family, but, of course, you are talking about the fact that if you were to die after you received this income, and, for example, you would owe a few hundred euros, and parents would also have to give it back in the legacy process. Therefore, this personal tax is not such a personal tax that it ceases to be the life of the prodigal when the prodigal ceases to be a legal person in the Slovenian legal space. But it seems to me in terms of the justice of this country, it goes in the sense of this justice, that if this Matrix, as his name was, this young boy had this happiness – so he had a great misfortune – but if it had been lucky to write differently and would have been in that first phase when the decisions were made, that money would have been received or he would have had it in person during his lifetime. However, since the Tax Administration issues via apparatus in some, it can be said that this decision has come under way, and this matter is extremely unfair. I believe that such injustice as the legislative branch of power can be eliminated. Whatever this novel will be called, perhaps even after this boy Matica, who died on his 20th birthday and where his parents received or did not take this decision exactly one week after his death, which states that he is no longer entitled to it. I think it's a sad story in the direction of the fairness of this society, in the direction of some possibility, towards the fact that Durs too has to pour his ashes, because at one stage he could have made all the decisions right at the beginning of the year, because it was a decision for the previous year, that is, the previous case. As an economist, not least as a lawyer, as an engineer, does not seem fair to me that such laws or regulations would apply. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Mag. Matthew Vranick Erman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u208	With all due respect for this tragic fate, however, it is necessary to take into account the general circumstances when writing legal rules. No matter where the limit would be set, when the obligation or the right to return the income paid still arises and when it does not, there would always be a borderline case, such as this particular case, where we could not, in fact, follow what we would like as people. For this reason, I assess that any promise towards a change of law could result in injustice or injustice in any other case, but in any case there is a limit on which these issues can be broken in essence, and the legal act must lay down a general rule that applies equally in all border cases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u209	Thank you very much. You want a debate in the National Assembly? Mr. Breznik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u210	Madam Minister, of course I understand. There are always borderline cases, there is always something where the law bypasses most people, and some of them always fall out, but if, for example, the Tax Administration or the Ministry of Finance acted on a one-day basis, for example, to issue decisions for all citizens, but not to issue a few decisions after decades – let's say, I don't know if it goes through the alphabet, because this gentleman wrote Strigl – but then we would understand this border issue that someone always turns out to be; but if he did, we would get that money. So we are looking for solutions in order for the Ministry of Finance to issue income decisions for the previous year, i.e. within one month for all citizens. That's where I see the solution. Then we can justify not being caught. At this point, there are cases such as the case of this family, this unfortunate event; of course, rules are rules, but there is also, you know, some justice. If citizens on the same day, for example, were given an income tax on the same day, then there would be no problems. In this direction, in the direction of some fairness, in the direction of a better operation, not least our bureaucracy, our administration, state administration and all the systems and subsystems of this country, on this basis, of course, I want, and also on the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to hold a general debate on this subject on my question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Breznik, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the votes. Mr Zvonko will be able to ask the Minister for the Environment and the Space of Mrs Irena Majcen. The Minister is absent, so I ask you to define yourself to the way you answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u212	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm afraid the Minister isn't. I'd like to ask you to answer orally at the next meeting. But I'm going to ask you a question. Given that we now have such important building legislation and spatial legislation in the process, and from the ground, Members are increasingly asking the various investors that they have administrative or bureaucratic obstacles to the implementation of certain investments, I ask the Minister for Environment and Space: Why should environmental consensus be obtained for the smallest interventions or investments or additionally, in accordance with the Regulation or Regulation on the limit values of environmental noise indicators, even a specific study of noise emissions produced by means of a model calculation, even though these works are carried out in the field in nature? One such model calculation costs almost EUR 5,000. It is the implementation of a irrigation system running 25 metres from the scattered settlement facilities. It's about 100 meters per day, which is supposed to be built or caused by noise for about 4 hours per day for 2 days. And it takes almost 5,000 euros to make a model study of measures or noise. These are construction machines that are quieter than some older tractors — because we can expect that the farmer will need to obtain a variety of permits when he enters the field of plowing. But that's not the only thing. It is also, for example, a case of how we have damaged a European regulation when it is necessary to obtain the opinion of the Ars to connect to a sewer that is longer than 15 kilometres – it is 100 metres of canal – because bureaucrats have misspelled the regulation, that it is also connected to this channel, and in fact an environmental permit must be obtained if the canal is built more than 15 kilometres. And do you know how much red tape it is for officials to answer to all the investors? Therefore, at a time when we are adopting this legislation, it is imperative that such things be resolved.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u213	Thank you very much. You will receive an answer at the next meeting. Mag. Dusan Verbic will ask the Minister for the Environment and Space of Mrs Irena Majcen. I also ask you to define yourself to the way you answer, because the Minister is absent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u214	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Minister, Members and Members of Parliament, a very nice greeting! I'm asking a question and asking for a written answer. The development axis with code 3A, which runs from the municipality of Ljubljana to the municipality of Kostel, all the way to the neighbouring country of Croatia, is very important because of the investment in this transport infrastructure. As a result, this also means the economic development of all the municipalities that lie at this axis. Unfortunately, it has been complicated at the beginning of this axis, namely the Skofljica bond, which is the weakest member of this much-needed transport infrastructure, as has been undisputedly identified for many years. In doing so, I cannot help but realize that one of the key legal powers of the Ministry of the Environment and Space is precisely the coordination of interests in the space. The issue of the 3A development axis has been resolved for too long, and this represents 14 years of ineffective operation of the country on this segment, which I find unacceptable. With regard to the conduct of the procedure of the State Spatial Plan for Škofljica, the Ministry again received a letter dated 2 months ago from the authorised coordinator of the municipalities on this 3A axis, the signed mayor of the Municipality of Škofljica. In view of the alarming fact presented, I ask and ask for the answer: Has the department done anything on this segment? Has the coordinator received an answer to his letter? In anticipation of a written reply and moving on a specific matter, I welcome the Minister in absentia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u215	Thank you very much. You will, of course, receive a written answer. Mrs Jelka Godec will ask the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petr Gasperšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u216	Thank you for your word. Hello, Minister! My question, of course, relates to the reconstruction of the road Dole-Ponikva-Loca, I have asked this question in both writing and oral terms several times. I would now like answers to what has already been answered to me in essence in 2015, at the end of 2015 my written question was answered with regard to the reconstruction of this road as follows: "The Terminal Plan for the realisation of the investment is entirely dependent on the provision of the financial resources to be provided for this purpose in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. It is expected that in 2016 it will begin to produce project documentation and to regulate land-law matters, as well as construction works in 2017.« Then I also got, I will say in person, because I also asked the Minister for an answer or on my question of how far this matter is now, and this was about the end or June – or, I apologize, in 2016, October 2016 it was said: "In the draft budget for 2016-2017, funding of EUR 260 000 is foreseen for the investment project. The project documentation at the level of PZI for the section of the 4 km road up to 4 plus 76 and 5 kilometers up to 8 plus 500 is already in production and will be foreseen at the end of the year. The reconstruction of the road and the construction of resilient and support walls and bus stations is envisaged. In 2017, it is envisaged that the necessary land will be obtained and, to the extent possible, also the start of construction works. Since the beginning is linked to the successful acquisition of the necessary land and the execution of the procurement procedure, it is not possible to provide a more precise timetable.” I'm interested, Mr. Secretary: How far is it now with the acquisition of these lands? How far has it actually been on these sections of business? When can the natives or citizens expect the reconstruction of this road according to the written record? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Dr. Peter Gaspersich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u218	Thank you, President, for your word. Thank you, too, for asking the question. With regard to the section of this road Down-Ponikva-Loca, we have really talked several times in this national assembly. There were also some written questions. Your Honour, Mrs Jelka Godec, you have given exact chronology and state of play on this project. I can tell you that in relation to the promised planning, i.e. the production of the project documentation for implementation, that this activity has been successfully completed, that the projects are now being forwarded to the review by the Directorate. As soon as this is completed, there will also be a plot on the ground and the acquisition of these lands. This will continue in the course of this year. As soon as the land is also acquired, work is expected to begin. This is about these investment measures. However, I can say that in the context of regular maintenance it is envisaged that certain patchwork will be carried out on this road at the most critical sections. And this is expected to be done in the course of this month. It is no longer right to say this, but, as we say, these activities that have been announced are ongoing and are also planned for their realization. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Mrs. Jelka, are you asking Godec to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u220	Thank you for that part of the answer. I'd like to ask if you could say a little bit more specifically: When will this final review occur, when will there be a plot on the ground, and when do you anticipate land acquisition? Given that you replied to me that work should also be envisaged in 2017. Look, the government, as well as your ministry, is constantly bragging about how much money it spends on infrastructure. I worry that now, obviously, all the money will go to the second level and that we'll stay in the countryside with roads like these. I have to tell you, even maintenance is no longer possible. If you're driving now – you've been driving, I think, in 2015 along this road – I don't think you could have driven down the middle of the road. In fact, now that they've maintained roads, banks are more banks than asphalt in some parts. And I don't know what you're going to maintain, given that on some parts, even the concrete is affecting the road, not the asphalt. And that now, when it's time for lunch, that we have opaque turns because one metre is high grass that falls even on the road and I must say that not even two passenger cars on certain sections can meet normally. [[…]] Risking every day a car accident is so good that there is no greater material damage than that we do not have children’s sidewalks through you, not only endangering the safety of drivers but also the population. Mr Minister, I suggest you take this road again and look at this is a state road; the state road that I take every day, not because I am driving, other citizens are driving, is a compulsory road for the highway and once again; concrete flows; more is a bankin than asphalt. [[…]] [[...]] I would really like you to finally tell me about this road once: Will it or won't it? When exactly will the plot be in this field? This constant delay – I think people are already suffering because it is no longer a road. That's August now.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Minister Peter Gaspersich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u222	I think that more or less everything that has been foretold has also been realized. There may be some delays in these activities. As it is said, the review is under way, usually these activities do not take very long, so I am counting on this to be done in a month, two and immediately thereafter the directorate will approach the site and the land purchase. I don't have any information on how much time is planned for these activities. I can serve it back to you with an additional written answer. However, since you have just mentioned the second track, you would also use your part of the answer to replicate in a way that, if the law that we have proposed remains in force, there is no fear that money will run out for such investment projects. Otherwise, the second track could actually become too much of a budget burden and the situation could change significantly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Mr Danilo Anton Ranc will ask the Minister for the Environment and the Space of Mrs Irena Majcen. The Minister is absent, so I ask you to define yourself to the way you answer. Here you go, Mr. Rance.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u224	Dear President, a nice greeting to all present! Since the Minister is not here today, I would like him to answer orally at the next meeting of the National Assembly. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has adopted a number of strategic documents: Smart specialisation, circular economy strategy, Vision of Slovenia and action plan Les is beautiful, in which it has committed itself to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by processing wood, reducing energy consumption and creating green jobs and reviving the wood industry. In 2016 we cut about 6 million cubic metres of wood, but unfortunately we only processed a million and a half cubic meters in Slovenia; we exported 4.5 million without value added. Over the past 20 years, we have lost about 40,000 jobs in the wood industry, causing direct and indirect economic damage to around €8.8 billion, a one-year state budget. By relaunching the wood industry, however, it could increase annual economic growth by up to 0.4%. We have also adopted in Parliament, in cooperation with the Ministry of Environment and Space, a law on the management of state forests, which implements the measures and objectives we have set ourselves at the time of the adoption of the above-mentioned strategic documents. As ministers responsible for the environment, for the introduction of environmentally friendly technologies and green jobs, the law on the management of state forests allowed you to monitor the implementation of the law on the management of state forests and government decisions as a member of the SIDG Assembly. The Law on the Management of State Forests provides that SiDG will establish wood processing in the wood collection and processing centres, which reduces negative environmental impacts. With regard to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, establishing green jobs and introducing environmentally friendly products, I ask you to answer the following questions: How will you, as Minister and as a member of the SIDG Assembly, ensure that the Supervisory Board and the Management Board of SIDG implement the adopted baselines for the government to develop the SDG strategic plan and in this regard ensure the creation of forest and forest chains as carriers of sustainable development and the creation of green jobs? How will you ensure that the State guarantees of the State Forests Management Act of 20 million euros will be allocated to establish timber collection and processing centres to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and heat energy consumption through production and installation? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u225	Mr Uroš Prikl has the floor, which will ask the Minister of Public Administration Mr Boris Koprivnik. Here you go, Mr. Prickl.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u226	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, we probably all agree that the Internet has recently become one of the key tools for providing and accessing information and consequently services. More than ever before, it is important that any access to websites and mobile applications can be understood and used appropriately. This applies to disabled persons and older users in particular. Various forms of online accessibility regulation have emerged in Slovenia, but they are not comprehensive and do not, in my opinion, satisfy the full range of needs that people with disabilities or older people have. At the end of last October, the European Parliament approved the Directive on the accessibility of public sector bodies’ websites and mobile applications, which enables users to access information, forms and services electronically. The websites and applications of administrative authorities, hospitals, courts and other public sector institutions should become easily accessible to all, I stress, all users. The Directive is intended to facilitate access to content, forms and payments on websites, in particular as I have already stressed, to disabled and elderly users. And of course everyone else. I firmly believe that online accessibility should be possible for all, so the exclusion of a certain segment of citizens in my firm belief must not be taken into account. Now, here are the specific questions: Do we know the benefits of accessible websites and connect them with other areas of work for the need for multiplier effects – lower costs, workload in other areas, sectors and so on? Do we have an assessment of the availability of Slovenian online authorities in public administration? Do we already have a methodology and techniques for adapting websites from an accessibility point of view? Do we have a timely action plan in view of the expected deadlines for the European Union Directive I spoke about earlier? And in the end, not at all important: Do we have a sufficiently high level of understanding of the needs of people with disabilities and older people working with computers and the Internet?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u227	Mr Boris Koprivnikar has the floor of the Minister of Public Administration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u228	Thank you, Chairman. Thank you, Ambassador Prikl, for the question. Let me try to answer briefly at this time. Of course we recognize these advantages. The directive itself is not the beginning of a reflection on the need for all user groups to have access to websites; it is the directive which clearly sets out the conditions and requires that this be brought to the legal order, so we are also stressing it ourselves. We have already done an analysis of websites in autumn 2016 in the framework of the government project P11, which combines over 350 websites into a single website called gov.si, which will be much more transparent for citizens. And in this review, we have also determined for all these websites whether they are meeting these standards, how they are actually adapted, so that we have prepared an overview of existing web sites that are merging. All material prepared in relation to the law will also include an accompanying analysis of the situation as well as a request for finality. In particular, we at the Ministry of Public Administration have seen this need before, because we also expect this directive to be adopted, and because we also want the widest possible range of users of services to use our online services. Therefore, we have already taken into account this WCAG transfer standard, which provides for the adaptation of the web site to different needs, in the revision of the eGovernment portal. At the same time, it is very important that we have worked very closely with the various organisations that help us in this, especially with the Association of Blind and Deaf Associations and the Union of Deaf and Deaf Slovenia; for we have worked with them constantly during the development of the portal. And in relation to the blind, let's say this is the moment they're preparing an analysis of our websites and proposals for improvements. In fact, adaptation is, as you know, that you can choose typology, the size of letters, color combinations, background and what is important for the blind, that you also have an audio presentation of individual services; and for the deaf, the fact that also in the Slovenian Sign Language is presented the subject that relates to a particular content. Within the framework of the renovation of websites, we also have a uniform editorial policy, a specific structure of editors. And all these editors in charge of content have already started and will also go through training in the future, where they will also be particularly alerted to how the website must be prepared and adapted to be used by people with special needs, or by all of us who have their own needs, to be as accessible and as clear as possible. I am pleased to say some specific cases where these adjustments have already been made. For example, on the eGovernment portal, it is possible to see as much as 145 information, service in Slovenian sign language or in a recorded speech for blind and visually impaired people. Over 30 services are so equipped on the Financial Administration portal. On the website of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, this field legislation is also presented in sign language and audio format. With regard to the methodology and adaptation of these websites, we like this whole reconstruction of state websites with the P11 project mentioned above, which will lead to web sites organised by the life system; for after the project, there will be only about 30 websites left of the current over 300. And these 30 will also fully comply with this Directive of AA compliance and will be adapted to blind, visually impaired, people with dyslexia, reading problems and so on. The standards are set out in the directive, we already know them. A representative of the Ministry of Public Administration also participated in the most recent working group preparing this directive, so that we monitored which standards we will have to implement and we actively participated in their construction. It is important to know, however, that coordination has also been very difficult for this Directive, as it entails additional costs. This is why many countries have strongly opposed this implementation of the directive; but now it is here and we will bring it into the legal order and thus increase the accessibility of websites. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u229	Mr. Uroš Prikl, you have the floor to request a complete reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u230	First of all, thank you very much for your answer. To my very specific questions you have practically answered me that there is obedience here, there is a awareness of this need. Of course, I am glad that it is not the European Union directive that pushes Slovenia forward in these and other areas. But the awareness within the country is very commendable. Personally, I am not in favour of the excessive use of these sophisticated, modern, newer modern tools. Many times this is the way to communicate. The enforcement of needs, the exercise of the rights of individual groups of citizens, also contributes to making the matter much faster, more efficient and beneficial. I have not heard from you here how much this matter will cost the country, how much the financial effects of such activities will be. And I would like that timeline when the project will be implemented by the end, when we can talk about the completion of this project and the final implementation of everything you have already told me in response what you are doing. And one more thing, I am very glad that in these solutions that you have in your own and also in other ministries, this is not only the story of one ministry, although you are in some way the horizontal ministry here; but also to take into account the interests of individual target groups. I talked about the elderly and the disabled, you went here more in detail – deaf, deaf, blind, visually impaired and so on. On the committee that I preside over in the National Assembly, we always say - nothing without the disabled. I think that's a very important conclusion. If they are satisfied with these solutions, they have actually stumbled upon fertile soils. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u231	Minister Koprivnik, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u232	I'm sorry I wasn't precise enough. With regard to the timetable, only so much can be done, the deadline for implementing the Directive is 22 September 2018. Until then, we will also transpose the directive into our legal order. By the end of this year, however, we are looking forward to a draft legislative proposal, purely concrete. With regard to recent comments on modern tools, to understand ourselves, although I am responsible for the field of digitisation, we are also looking at the use of digital services perhaps less radically than some other countries, not according to the principle of only digital, if you allow me; but according to the principle of also digital, this means that it is always offered as an additional option, but not in a way that the classic possibilities that already exist are forcibly eliminated. I am a great advocate of the fact that users themselves must have a choice of service. These services also provide a great opportunity for all those who, because of their disability or perhaps even because of their age or other reasons, have difficulty in moving; therefore, we strive to make more and more services available from home, from the home environment, at any time. This increases transparency, democracy and the use of public services. But as far as horizontality is concerned, our absolute ministry cannot be what is the contractor of the renovation of websites. Our ministry is the one that only cares about coordination; the content must be contributed by all the authorities, and these are a few hundred. This is why we have built the structure of the so-called editorial policy, where we are discussing with all the editors how the content will be displayed, what content, and this needs to be addressed by the editors in specific areas. But if we act uniformly, according to uniform standards, then the appearance of the country will also be regulated, accessible and transparent to users, whether they are citizens or entrepreneurs. This is also the basic concept of this project for the renovation of all state websites. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u233	Mr Primož Hainz will ask the question to the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Peter Gasperšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u234	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to both ministers, especially Dr. Peter Gasperšič! At the end of May, the European Commissioner for Transport, Mrs Violeta Bulc, presented a comprehensive package of measures to modernise road transport, which also includes a proposal to end vignettes and introduce uniform electronic tolls. I therefore ask the Minister: How does our Minister feel about these measures by the Commissioner at home? It's about the next one. Firstly, the introduction of electronic tolling is a major financial asset. But what's important is that I think mostly about people who are forced to drive daily to work with cars. In the event of a daily payment by miles, people would be driven off the highway through the thefts, along so-called old roads. However, I agree that electronic tolling is essential for freight traffic, because trucks are actually stopping there, while passenger cars with ABC systems are no longer stopping. I just want to know: What is your attitude toward the same problem? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u235	Minister Peter Gasperšič, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u236	Thank you, President, for your word. Thank you, too, Mr Primož Hainz, for the question raised. Indeed, the mobility package presented by the European Commission brings a whole range of innovations, is very extensive and I would like to say from the outset that it is still in the proposal stage. The European Commission aims to encourage a debate on this further development of a European sustainable transport system. Since these proposed changes are complex, this proposal by the European Commission must first be thoroughly examined, and then, in cooperation with all stakeholders, which are also actively affected, be further coordinated and fixed in the final form. In principle, the Ministry of Infrastructure welcomes the solutions made possible by the interoperability of electronic toll systems throughout the European Union, while also taking into account the existing toll systems of individual countries. In the context of the discussions held so far, it was also ensured by the European Commission that, should these amendments be adopted, appropriate transitional periods will be provided to allow Member States or toll concessionaires to adjust their existing toll systems in a cost-effective manner. At the same time, we cannot and must not ignore the fact that the accessibility of the motorway network has been greatly increased in Slovenia, with the introduction of the vignette toll system, and thus the mobility of the population itself. Transport security has also improved, and from a social point of view, the effects of the introduction of the wine system are very important. The establishment of a single European toll system or the interoperability of existing electronic systems would allow the user to pay one electronic toll throughout the territory of the European Union, and for that service would have only one contract, and only one invoice would have been received for the services provided, which would therefore be similar to the charging of mobile telephony services. This service would make the toll procedure for users much easier. Moreover, the establishment of a new electronic toll system would allow to pay tolls across all Member States according to the actual distance transported, in principle – the user pays and the polluter pays; this is in line with the principles of sustainable transport policy. It should also be stressed here that the establishment of a single toll system does not automatically mean that the price level throughout the European Union is uniform. Member States will still be able to decide on their own tolls and determine their pricing policy independently and in this way also introduce appropriate measures that will determine the transport policy itself at the level of the countries. So far, we can say so much about this mobility package. This is therefore the first proposal to be further coordinated in the next stages. We will, as it is said, defend as long as possible transitional periods in Slovenia if it is decided that vignette systems are no longer the type of tolling that would still be acceptable. However, it should also be said that it has already been pointed out by the European Commission that users using motorways will also be able to apply certain discounts. All systems will be subject to further coordination. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u237	Mr. Primoz Hainz, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u238	Thank you very much for your answer. Nevertheless, I must say that there will be no study or study on the subject. The fact is that the European Commissioner is already operating on the yearbooks, so with some programme, when it would have been done, when it would not have been done. And I specifically distinguish trucks that actually stop at every highway toll station individually, so that they pay already because they have to be taken off the road by trains, in a different way of transit traffic. And, of course, I separate cars. Because today people are driving to places outside their homes, and the Slovenian settlement is an exception to dispersion and it is absolutely impossible to organise public transport; even if they were best organised, we are not always. Even if we were, we have problems here because every Slovenian wants to have his own house; and as soon as he has his own house, of course, not everyone can live in the same location. Therefore, these transports are extremely large. If we're going to pay for miles, that means it's going to be very expensive. People drive 100 miles every day in one direction. Even if the Ljubljanaians go to Maribor, they are punished, although it is mostly the other way around. It is a matter of very vital importance for us and it surprises me little by little that this is what our Commissioner is in haste with these measures. I fear that when people drive on old roads, it will not be safe and environmentally acceptable. Thank you very much for the complementary answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u239	Dr. Peter Gaspersich, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u240	Thank you very much. As it is said, the vignette systems we have in us and in other European countries bring a variety of benefits; in particular, the highway system is very accessible in this way and is conveniently accessible to frequent users. We all probably remember the times when we had a toll payment system after more or less a mile; it was an open system and it was not always achieved. We all know that at the time, more frequent users could pay thousands and more euros a year to use motorways, while others we paid less, and some we paid absolutely nothing if we say they drove only in the area of the bypass. Then the vinite system arranged it differently. Most of the users were in better shape. Those who used motorways less frequently were relatively poor. These findings still occur in the transit of our motorways during summer holidays. The European Commission clearly wants to end these systems. He wants to be paid by the system – the user pays, the polluter pays. It also foresees a longer period of deployment for these systems. And there will be negotiations between the Commission and the Member States on how these systems will be introduced. I would leave to these negotiations the fate of what will eventually be actually established. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u241	We are moving on to the second round of questions from Members and Members of Parliament. Mr Jan Škoberne will ask Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc's question to the Minister of Health. Mr. Scoberne, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u242	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Minister, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! Allow me first, Madam Secretary, to say that I am truly sorry to have to ask you this question in this way and here; but you are not leaving us anything else; you are not answering my mail, not you, not the secretary of state, not the chief of staff. At the invitation of the mayors to the meetings of the municipal council, you answer on a general basis that you are engaged because you have a pre-announced other obligation. Civil initiatives don't respond. Like Kranj, the same model is used in Topolšica. Notify the decision to merge with another hospital without first informing us, at least those living in the local community, of how and with what effect you intend to do so. In the event of merger and rescue of the Topolšica Hospital, we came from the fact that three months ago, apparently, it was produced by the former director of the Golnik Hospital Golnik laboratory of the Golnik and Topolšica Association; perhaps even in order to achieve the transfer of the work of the Terrician from Golnik to the Clinical Center. And then, I don't know how, it was decided that Topolšica Hospital should now be associated with Celje Hospital, with which it has only two. That she's not well-manned and that she's in financial trouble. I have listened carefully to your first answer today and I am pleased to see in this gathering many positive things. For example, I want something that we've all been predicting together for a long time, which is a centralized order. Since you have presented the model for the first time today, or at least the indicators by which you can measure the success of this connection, please kindly tell us in the numbers, in particular: What will be improved, what will be the savings, and what will be the financial net effect of optimising the business at all the points you have already listed in your reply today? So for investments from a liquidity point, what will be the savings from shared services; and to draw under the line what kind of money we are talking about. This is mainly because the environment has experienced from the past that Topolšica Hospital has been generally accepted as a charter, that people prefer to stay at home and at least die at home, not go there. And once the hospital that lives on the services provided receives such a reputation, it will certainly not be saved. And the fact that you're going to take her lead or attach her to Cel, I imagine there's nothing that's going to save her. Please, there's probably a model, there's probably a calculation, I'm asking you open heads, I'm sorry at the assembly meeting, because I don't have another chance. Once again, even though you seem reluctant to respond to e - mail, it may be good for you to respond out of courtesy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Minister Marija Milojka Kolar Celarc will answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u244	Thank you, Mr Vice President; honourable Members and Members! Mr Jan Škoberne, honourable Member, thank you for this question. Perhaps I will have to repeat some things after all, as I have already replied to Mr Jurša. I can't judge. I can't tell you what happened in the past. If there have been some bad experiences of the surrounding population where they are now gravitating to Topolščica Hospital, I cannot assess and define this; but this is certainly not the aim of the Ministry of Health if it is. And that's why this fear is completely unjustifiable. I wouldn't talk about what past leadership has caused. The fact is that this hospital has been blocked for the second month, that there was no money for the wages of workers, not for the regression now, and that drug suppliers were threatened with non-delivery of medicines. As a result, the Ministry of Health, through the government, provided some less than €2 million to ensure that the work could have been smooth and that they had also received medicines. I'll tell you where I've been, but first of all, let me stress that the project of this integration is not even finished. I can't answer this question today, but all the actors, including you, can be invited to explain to everyone when they are finished. First of all, there is a financial scrutiny because it is necessary to determine how much funding or how big a hole there is in Hospital Topolščica in order to be able to recover it financially. Secondly, the professional management is now identifying which programmes Topolščica would take over, what she will do in the future, in order to receive more funding from the Health Insurance Institute. If we only look at their programme, in the long run, this hospital cannot survive financially with this programme alone, with these employees and with all its support functions. And I will not repeat where these connections and calculated effects, as I said, will be common procurement, reduced costs of material, increased revenues from additional programmes. Then the possibility of their service activities, which they have to provide elsewhere, or eventually also on the market. We have produced a detailed timeline when the financial review is complete, I suppose by the end of June at the latest a comprehensive step-by-step view will be taken. This can't happen overnight, it'll be a trial. Every leader needs to know what activities he has to take. I have had meetings with the mayors of all three municipalities – Šostjanj, Šmartno ob Paki and Velenje that our participant was at a meeting of civil initiative; however, we were not able to attend. Unfortunately, there is a lack of such personnel that when we have activities in Parliament, government committees, I practically do not have a person at a higher level and send them to this meeting. I give my word and tell you that when the project is completed, when it is very well known, we will first get to know the leadership, the employees, the civil initiative and all the actors. By the way, let me mention what is being said in public on several occasions that we will be putting an end to this activity. Believe me, as the responsible minister, I would not sign and provide money for the purchase of three new X-ray machines worth half a million euros that this hospital needs for its services. However, at least the project will be built and adopted somehow after this time period; the gradual activities will be carried out by the end of the year, so that there will be enough time for everyone to get to know exactly the concrete steps and proposals.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Škoberne will request a further reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u246	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. First of all, there's no "Topolščica", no "No" in the name. It's a topolska. At least that, but okay. Secondly, I asked you very fiscally because today you told us what areas will be the savings and positive effect; how much. Or am I the only one who understands that you have decided to say that the positive effect will be reliable and that we are going together without doing the basic calculation. And without this being done, you have decided, despite the fact that in every local community, it means a lot of excitement. You say so little to us on the periphery: Because in "Topolščica" they will understand, and in six months they will gradually learn what will come from Ljubljana and how it will come from Ljubljana. I hope you understand our anger. Or at least mine, because mine is still pretty much controlled over what people do when someone across their thumb tells them that somehow they're going to do something about it in six months, and it's existential for them. You know, there's health in people, I think, almost everything. And once again, ladies and gentlemen, in response to your earlier colleague Jurša, you have said that savings from business optimisation will be made, that there will be more liquidity resources, that there will be more investment funds; tell us how much. I'll drive myself back, I'll go to the Civil Initiative, to all three mayors and tell them: the Minister told me on a familiar work with known numbers, that's better for us. I'll be the first to defend this merger. But in the answer you gave me, I can't do that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Mr. Jan Škoberne, one brief apology from the Minister. 40 years ago, it was Topolščica, and then you renamed it, and then some people talk a little bit of memory. Here you are, Minister Mary Milojka Kolar Celarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u248	Thanks for the heads-up. It's Topolšica, I'm sorry. It would be very irresponsible of me to think of operating on any numbers. Like I said, there's a careful financial review going on. Once this one is known, it will only be clear how big a hole there is, forgive the expression, in the operations of this hospital, back to back. And also a projection, at least how many funds or programmes it needs to have in order to be able to operate on a business basis. And when this careful review is actually done, when it is known, because this money will have to be made somewhere to ensure that the business is stabilised, that the falling liabilities are settled and, thirdly, when it can be determined how many programmes there will be in Topolšica, what in Celje; and with regard to the Health Insurance Office, that it will then also be financed. Of course, this is part of the project you will be familiar with. But if there are joint purchasing services, you know that joint procurement can save. It is already recognised that there are different purchase prices. Then it will certainly be possible to manage and manage more effectively. And even a number of such things will be shown by the project in very detail to argue and get additional financial resources. Then it will be time to sit very carefully with all these groups that you mentioned to make this hospital's long-term stability.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Ms Anja Bah Žibert will ask the Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u250	Thank you very much, Chairman. I hope you don't interrupt me this time. It's a very simple question. We well know that individual institutions belong to the jurisdiction of the local community, and individual institutions belong to the jurisdiction of the state, as far as the designation of their councils is concerned. I am very interested in this, and I also ask you: Under what criteria does the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport propose to the Government to appoint individual members to the councils of institutions whose founder is the Republic of Slovenia and who are members of educational institutions? Of course there are other institutions, but here I am interested: What are the criteria, these criteria published? Where, then, how do you make the selection of these representatives? Is it solely political motivation or divisiveness among political parties in the coalition? So many introductory notes, then further forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u251	Thank you very much. Minister Maja Makovec Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Thank you for asking, too. Greetings to all present! Representatives of the founder, these are on average two or three in the world of institutions, since there are other representatives of other stakeholders in a particular area, is appointed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. One is usually the seat itself, i.e. the municipal community or the place which is in charge and also in the jurisdiction of cooperation with the educational institution. One of the representatives appointed by the founder and thus by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is also a representative of employers in the field of the activity in which the institution operates; it is selected in a broader aspect of the social partners or specifically from employers themselves. Depending on, say, secondary school work or visa, we also have different structures regarding the area of operation of an individual institution. If employers or social partners do not propose their representative within 30 days of receiving a written call, the Director shall normally inform the Ministry that there has been no response; and this shall also make a call for the appointment of both representatives, i.e. a direct employer and also a so-called government representative. When the Council finds out that the term of office is terminated, the Director shall also immediately inform the Secretariat or the so-called competent electoral body. Then the procedure shall be re-examined. Even if the mandate of an individual member, such as a member appointed by a partner of the institution, is terminated, then a written appeal is made again. Within 30 days, it should be re-called to also fill the relevant places due to the operational work and also to the implementation plan, the operation of the individual board of the institution. They usually propose these candidates to public, public educational institutions. However, when there is no one, not even at the invitation, the Ministry specifically proposes this call for candidates to respond as soon as possible. In recent times, such as during the ministry of Dr Lukšič, these were even public calls, but unfortunately they were extremely unsuccessful. There was no response and this instrument was therefore withdrawn in this way. At the same time, I must say that the criteria themselves relate to knowledge, experience, expertise and everything that candidates want and point out in their CVs. This is part of the process, and it is necessary to know that it is an area of education and education, an area of education where, wherever possible and always impossible, it is possible to obtain individuals with such experience, especially knowledge of specific areas. I must point out that many times it is not possible to obtain candidates, although these calls are also encouraged through the Ministry or, in particular, within the community that appoints these members. At times, certain representatives do not want to be exposed either, we have different situations; the fact is that we must and are obliged to complete the entire composition of the worlds of institutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u253	Thank you very much. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, do you request a supplement to your answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u254	Thank you very much. Minister, you've really explained everything about how these things are going. Now let's look at the practice. You have said that it is proposed to the saints of the institutions of a person who is supposed to have some field knowledge, experience — and because we are really talking about education and education — certainly also important examples. I cannot personally tell you the ethical and moral government because you were not even there at the beginning of this government. However, the Prime Minister was in the beginning, but now he is in the word of ethics and had to forget a bit because they have actually failed. Gymnasium Vič, Commissioner, is the Ministry of Education and Education; you have proposed Mr Domn Savič to the Council of the Institute. I was warned about this by citizens and citizens. I also apologize to everyone in this Chamber and to citizens and citizens because I will read his views. This is what he writes on Twitter: “Once again, bitches of clerotaliban...” Those are his words. Second: “... And then she stands on her way to the doctor, screaming at her and waving with the cross." These are the records of the person who was appointed to the World of High School. Now it will be difficult for you to tell me that these records show knowledge, experience, and above all what an individual should have for education and education. And these examples, that's a long way from being an example. Minister, I call on you to be more careful about such matters, as citizens and citizens point out. And, sir, even when he's named, he writes it like this. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Minister Maja Makovec Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u256	Thank you so much for saying that and for that warning. I find it difficult to comment on the individual and the manner of expression of the gentleman who has been chosen. However, I would like to point out that, in fact, many times there is no possibility of verifying all types of facts and not the reactions that may come from them. We will certainly try to get everything we need for the CV and the proper implementation of the procedure, as well as for the broader conduct and, as it stands out, for the way we communicate, which then gives a certain note to the individual. But we are all very, very, very, and especially accountable to ourselves and, of course, to what we assume as responsibilities; in this case, we also have functions or membership in such institutions. Of course, we must bear them ourselves, not only with authority, but primarily with responsibility. So thank you for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u257	Thank you very much. Mrs Violeta Tomic will ask the Minister of Public Administration, Mr Boris Koprivnikar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u258	Thank you for your word. More than 8 years have passed since we found that there are many anomalies in J's payroll group. Since 2009, it has been every year that every government has committed itself to the elimination of these injustices that took place at the time of the introduction of the new payment system. Yet, to this day these injustices have not been brought to an end. During this time, negotiations are now under way between the government and the public sector unions. In doing so, the government sees the solution quite differently from the union side. If, at the time of the adoption of the agreement in the past year, the first speech on the removal of the anomalies for those worst-paid seemed to be different today. I agree that anomalies and injustices must be eliminated for all. In Levica, we have always pointed out that the government should eliminate exactly all the anomalies in the pay system and also find certain funds to do so. But the government is proposing a different solution. Instead of first looking for and registering all the anomalies and then exploring how much funding is needed to eliminate them; first, it has set the level of funds, and now, under these inappropriate means, it is also looking for an inappropriate and inadequate solution. Since the government and you insist that the way out will be sought within the available €70 million, in our view, the only acceptable solution would be to make these funds a priority for eliminating the anomalies of the worst-paid. In short, the solution you're proposing is two. First, that all the anomalies due to lack of funds will only be partially eliminated and, secondly, that at least of this solution will have those who live the hardest and who are the worst paid. That's why I'm asking you: Will the government negotiating party support the union proposal to make the available €70 million available for the removal of the worst-paid anomalies, i.e. for wage classes up to and including the 26th grade? Do you intend to propose to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as the competent minister, to take a comprehensive solution to eliminate all irregularities in the pay system and to provide adequate financial resources for this purpose? When can we expect the country to actually become a good example to other employers and make sure that the lowest payment grade in the public sector starts at a minimum wage – and not at the disgraceful 440 euros, which is the 1st payment grade? Thanks for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u259	Thank you very much. Minister Boris Koprivnikar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u260	Thank you, President, and thank you Members for this question. You're right to point out, yes, that for eight years, anomalies have been being removed. All governments have promised this so far, and our government has assured and reached agreement with the unions; an additional 70 million for this purpose alone. Salary anomalies were already identified in 2008 and 2009 and were then assessed, together with trade unions, at around EUR 50 million. In order to eliminate the anomalies, which would mean that no one would be worse, we agreed last year with the unions to provide an additional 70 million, which would allow the found anomalies that have been dragging for many years to be actually set aside in a way that would make the distribution of wage classes more fair and that no one would therefore have a smaller salary. For removing anomalies would mean that some go up, some go down. In this case, everyone goes up now. I'm a little surprised how you feel about the government proposal being directed at higher wage groups. I am just coming from negotiations with trade unions, where we find that from the total amount to eliminate the anomalies to the 26th wage class from a total of 70 million euros we are earmarking over 62 million. This is said to be diametrically opposite to what the trade union side may claim. And one more thing. The trade union counter-proposals that we receive in the negotiating process are significantly greater in total because they exceed EUR 100 million, even though we have agreed together and signed that we will have in the 70s. But the distribution of funds, which are intended to be based on the height of individual payroll groups, is exactly the same, deviates by a percentage or two. But I am proving to you that, as of today, the basic government proposal has devoted a vast majority of the resources we have available to all those up to the 26th pay grade. The solution proposed by the Government and proposed by it already in February this year is comprehensive because it proposes the removal of anomalies in the entire pay system; and it has been comprehensive from the very beginning and has devoted the main resources to those who have been paid the lowest. I find it difficult to answer the question of why the government is doing so, but if we do so completely differently. In fact, we also prove this with concrete data. The full solution proposed was already on the table in February, it was very difficult and in a long-term process coordinated between the departments and it is still only a proposal. Therefore, we expect from the union side a possible counterproposal that we have not yet received a single proposal. However, we also agree on a possible solution in the sense that we will first agree only on workers up to the 26th pay grade. That is why, because we have given such an emphasis to this, we have agreed that they will go first to pay, with the July salary they will receive in August. That is why I am very dissatisfied because we are not successful in the negotiating process; however, we have promised the people together, the unions and the government, that the August pay will give them the promotions that the anomalies actually do. In this case, I can say that the government has indeed done and is still doing everything in its power to maintain dialogue, to keep the commitments entered into with the unions agreed and signed, and to stress in eliminating the anomaly precisely to those paying groups that we believe must have priority after time and priority over the amount of funds allocated to these paying groups to eliminate the anomalies. And the insights that you are expressing today in the parliamentary question, and I often also hear them in public, very simply, with a simple review of the government proposal, actually become irrelevant. I propose that we really look at the content of the proposal and actively participate in the negotiating process; not operate on flat-rate assessments that are not consistent with the reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u261	Thank you very much. Mrs. Violeta Tomić, do you request a supplement to the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u262	Here I have the STA report and there is no way the Confederation of Public Sector Trade Unions is obviously satisfied, so tomorrow we will have a demonstration before the government. If, as you say, everything was wonderful, then the worst-paid would not have risen again and we had to send our voice back to regulate these anomalies. This is a very important issue. Sorry, these things need to be clarified, because the wage system in the public sector, which sets as many as 16 classes below the minimum wage, and the salary system, which is full of anomalies, is totally unacceptable. And the answer to my question, when will the state become a good example for all the other employers, I have not received this time. You insist, and the whole government insists on saving, despite having, we are always talking about record economic growth, which is about 4%; but this is not known to the poorest. But very quickly 80 million were found for gifts and tax breaks to those 10% of the wealthy Slovenians; but, as you can see, the worst paid ones must go to the streets to ensure their rights. And I'd say it's a lack of priority, because that's one super-hikov logic to take to the poor and give to the rich. Against it today is my voice, and so tomorrow I will also be where they will demonstrate, because it is necessary to be solidarity with these people. Apparently these things aren't arranged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u263	Thank you very much. Minister Boris Koprivnikar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u264	Thanks again. Of course, we have the right to demonstrate whenever we want; but I suggest we look at the data. At the time of this government, the total value of the measures implemented amounted to EUR 324 million per year. So much money has been paid back; I think we have an open yet, somewhere here I have information as much as to completely eliminate the austerity measures. [[…]] So much for the government's strategy. As for the demonstration before the government, I've asked myself, I've told you many times why. Because I just told you that out of the available €70 million, 62 million is spent on staff under the 26th pay grade; and they are demonstrating to you before the government. I do not know whether they are properly aware of what the government proposal is and what these demonstrations serve, because the result of the halting of the negotiating process and certainly the demonstration during the negotiation process is not a constructive act; I say this decisively and publicly. The halting of this negotiating process will simply mean that the lowest paid public officials will not be able to obtain these funds unless agreement and agreement with the trade unions is reached. It's totally unacceptable to me. I would even hope to say that many of those who might demonstrate tomorrow do not understand well what their best interest is. As far as the state is concerned, it will be a good example; of course, we also have a minimum wage threshold in our country and also in the whole pay system. And with this elimination of the anomalies, we raise these minimum wage classes to 10; even for three pay graders, so very rarely those who remain with the need to pay a minimum wage. This practically normalizes the whole system so that wages continue normally throughout the whole scale. As far as saving is concerned, I've already given you an answer. As for the poorest public officials, I reiterate that we are talking about some 100 million who have been paid back to public servants by austerity measures and that we are talking about an additional 70 million, which goes to the vast majority of those who have been paid the worst. This is a government strategy, we are also implementing it, we are defending it, but in dialogue with trade unions. Because of our legal order, even if the government wants to pay off these funds tomorrow, it cannot do so until we reach an agreement with the unions. In the interests of the workers, I hope that we will reach it as soon as possible, as we have committed ourselves together and signed it together in last year's agreement; in agreement with the unions.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u265	Thank you very much. Mrs. Violeta Tomic, do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u266	Dear Minister, you said that, as in all countries, we also have a minimum wage threshold. As you know, in the United Left, we have proposed that the minimum wage should be raised to a decent level and that, above all, all the supplements should be exempted, then perhaps people could live easier. The payment class is now starting with the disgraceful 440 euros in the 1st grade, which is actually unacceptable. If this minimum wage were to start, which would have been raised correctly and would have been excluded from the allowances, then we could have a different conversation. What you have said is a promise, not to say that it is not; but I have not received an answer when these anomalys will be completely eliminated and when we will definitively delete the first 16 payment classes, which are indeed a shame. When will the 1st grade begin with a minimum wage, and not with these horrendous, shameful 440 euros, with which no one can really survive. No matter what you say, there will be demonstrations tomorrow and we can still discuss these things at the next meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u267	Thank you very much. Mrs Violeta Tomić, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 20 June, in the framework of the votes. Mr Marko Ferluga will ask the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Peter Gasperšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u268	Thank you very much. Greetings to the ministers and the rest of the last Mohicans we fight here! At previous meetings of the Committee on Foreign Policy and the Committee on European Union Affairs, as set out in the work plan, we will also consider the proposal for a law on ratification of the Protocol on the Treatment of Application to the Sava Basin Framework Agreement and the proposal for a law on ratification of the Protocol on the Prevention of Pollution from Water by Navigation. These are two proposals for a protocol to the Framework Agreement in the Sava swimming pool. Besides, we confirm them among the last ones, but that's not the point. In the light of this consideration of these two protocols, I am interested in: Does the Ministry have a vision or strategy for inland waterways or inland waterways? That's one question. I just don't understand how this is even possible, given the large number of hydropower plants we have. It was interesting, however, that the ILO representative at the meetings of the Committee on Foreign Policy and the Committee on European Union Affairs said that, with regard to the Sava and these two protocols, Slovenia was mentioned as a good practice in the regulation of the Sava and that we have here one major untapped economic potential for Slovenia. It was also mentioned that it is planned to have a river port in Brežice. Of all the above, I am interested, Mr. Minister: Do we have real opportunities for this and what impact will these two ratifications have on Slovenia's development potential in this area? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u269	Thank you very much. Minister Peter Gaspersich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u270	Thank you, President, for your word. Thank you, Mr Mark Ferruga, for today's second question. With regard to this Framework Agreement on the Sava Basin, I can say that it was adopted on 3 December 2002 and that the Republic of Slovenia was actually a depositary of this Agreement and later adopted protocols under this Framework Agreement. It is also a fact that the further development of international inland navigation in the Republic of Slovenia depends on or is directly linked to the conclusion of an appropriate agreement with the Republic of Croatia on the establishment of the airworthiness of the Sava River between Obrežje and Sisak in the relevant international shipping category. The vision or strategy for the development of inland waterway navigation, which you are also asking for, is detailed in the three key strategic documents. The first is the Strategy for Spatial Development of Slovenia, a 2007 document. Then the two newer ones adopted in this mandate are the Transport Development Strategy in the Republic of Slovenia, adopted by the Government in July 2015. And on the basis of this strategy then adopted Resolution on the National Transport Development Programme in the Republic of Slovenia, which was also adopted in this National Assembly in 2016. In Slovenia, inland waterways have not been given much emphasis, although there are several possibilities on Slovenian rivers and lakes. Nevertheless, river traffic in Slovenia is taking place and is under the jurisdiction of the municipalities. There are also certain problems that require this area to be regulated at national level, in particular with regard to the categorisation of navigation by rivers and lakes, and with regard to the conditions for such navigation and its safety. And that's what we plan to do. In the framework of its membership in the European Union and its operation in the International Sava Pool Commission, Slovenia also aims to link the Slovenian inland waterway between the Brežice and the Coast with the existing Sava waterway at Sisko in the long term. We still need a piece going from the Croatian border to Sisko. The construction of a hydropower chain of transverse power plants allows this navigation to be established on individual accumulation lakes and, in order to connect these navigational areas, appropriate waterways or so-called rafts must be built in hydroelectric power plants, in the case of barriers. At Brežice hydroelectric power plant, an ideal design for such a 120-metre raft was already developed at the time of the planning of this power plant. The construction of the hydropower chain on Sava between Krški and Obrež in Slovenia, as well as the continuation of the Croatian part of Sava between Obrež and Sisak, will create a new inland waterway that will be able to meet the conditions of at least the fourth international shipping category, which would also allow Slovenia to participate in the international inland waterway and the Danube basin's transport routes, so-called TEN-T corridor. Thus, this strategic decision to extend the waterway from Sisak to Brežice would have several beneficial effects. Thus, the existing multimodal railway corridor, 10th corridor, would be complemented by an international inland waterway on an important and rather long stretch of Sava, which would bring this attractiveness to the combination of road, rail and waterway transport. The categorisation will also provide for uniform navigation regimes, which will facilitate management. However, I can also say that in accordance with Article 1 of the Regulations on navigation in the Sava basin, the navigation area has already been established between the Coast and the Brežica. At the Ministry of Infrastructure, as we say, we are preparing amendments to the Law on Inland Water Navigation; in the context of these changes, we will also prescribe the application of the rules of the Sava Commission for navigation in other areas of navigation in the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u271	Miha Kordišk, you have the floor to ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology of Mr Zdravek Počvalšk.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u272	Thank you for your word, chairman. The government is making every effort to increase fuel prices for Slovenian citizens and citizens. She took her first step in early April last year, deregulation of 100-octane gasoline and fuel oil. This was followed by a second step in November last year, when the price of fuels at the motorway cross was deregulation; despite the Committee on the Economy's call for an assessment by the end of the year, Mr Minister, of the consequences of deregulation of oil derivatives prices. This meeting was convened by the socialists, but it was a coalition decision that was adopted. If it were our way, we'd stop the deregulation anyway. My first question is because we are in the middle of 2017 and the end of the month is the end of the current regulation: Have you taken into account the Committee on the Economy's decision and prepared an assessment of the consequences of deregulation of oil derivatives prices? If I continue, your own analyses, which were made before deregulation, prove that this deregulation can only have negative consequences for citizens, the state budget and, even so, the remaining sectors of the economy. However, after you have prepared an analysis of the consequences of deregulation along the highway crossing, which has identified the risk of falling millions of euros out of the state budget, let anyone else understand this logic, but deregulation of these prices. Why did you do that?Oh, my God! Since at the beginning of the deregulation you yourself predicted that the ultimate goal was complete deregulation, the oil traders at the highway cross clearly kept the prices at the same level as elsewhere. If prices were raised, it would mean that we would torpedo our own project of total elimination of price regulation. There would have been a public revolution, and the entire political profit project would have failed. My opinion here is that there is a need for reverse logic because of the price. This is because distributors have not raised prices, margins, although they could, the deregulation measure is pointless. And its only effect is that traders can freely determine the margin. And if they haven't decided to do so and they're just cheating, this measure just isn't necessary. That's why I'm asking you: Do you intend to take the last step at the end of the month, when the current regulation expires, to stick your last nail in a petrol coffin and to completely deregulation the prices of oil derivatives on the market, which is really a duopol?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u273	Minister for Economic Development and Technology Mr Zdravko Restoršek, you have the floor to reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u274	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Member, Members and Members of Parliament! Thank you so much for asking. First of all, I must say that I will answer as much as I can answer what you have given me in writing, because your question differs from what you have submitted. Nevertheless, I will try my best to answer that question. I intend to propose to the government the full liberalisation of oil derivatives prices. In addition to being a major advocate for the free functioning of the market, I am not a neoliberal at all, but my decision is based mainly on two analyses, based on an analysis by the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Competition and Analysis of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development. The analysis of the deregulated prices of petroleum derivatives showed that the price of unleaded petrol of higher octane values only slightly increased during the period analysed, on average by 1.3 % of the market price if it continued to be regulated. However, the actual retail price of extra light combustion oil on average was 0,3 % lower than the maximum retail price if the price was still established by the State. I will also make a proposal for full liberalisation on the basis of the conclusion of the AVK that there is a potential in the fuel market for the development of a discounted supply of fuel. This gives an opportunity to lower fuel prices in the parking lot of malls. This proposal will also give on the basis of what was happening after partial liberalisation, namely liberalisation on the motorway cross, when we first came to see that prices were different. Nobody's talking about it. Not much lower in the west, but a little higher in the east. Also because we believe that it is not just two suppliers, but because there is a supply of fuel within the individual types, demand by larger bidders but only by two. After all, we have, as we have had so far, a fuse that any possible deviation in the direction you are predicting so vehemently from the first step forward can be eliminated by reintroducing the old system, which means regulation; which I do not believe will be necessary. After all, the first and second steps proved that we were going in the right direction. Of course, I would like a lot more discussion to devote to other parts that affect the price of fuel. I strongly reject the claims that this is a drastic impact on the state budget. However, I would like them to be critical of tax excise work, with which a smaller share could lead to greater sales on our highway cross and on the exact same result in terms of budgetary impact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u275	First of all, you said "procedural." No, it's okay; I didn't think I had to. Miha Kordish, you have the floor to request a complete response.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u276	Thank you very much. This is what I wanted to say after an uncontested procedural proposal. The Minister here has been responding to parliamentary questions every month for three years and should already know how these parliamentary questions work. The forecast of our question is entirely in line with the content of this issue, because these are all very intimate points of deregulation of the prices of petroleum derivatives. However, you have at least answered the question that I have asked you about whether you intend to propose a complete deregulation. Yeah, obviously you're suggesting a complete deregulation. You did not respond directly, but your response showed that you did not make an assessment at the government or at your ministry of the consequences of deregulation of the prices of petroleum derivatives. You have only collected a few statistics on the fact that prices have not really risen and all of this has been spiced up by the ideology of competition in the free market. But even within the regulated regime, oil traders can compete in whoever drops the price down. Only endlessly in heights can't tighten it, so this claim, this postulate is wrong. Given how many times we've exposed this, I'm going to say it's a simple deception, if not a lie. And it is clear here from the beginning of the deregulation process that you do not have a single valid professional argument for such a policy. When I asked you last year about price deregulation, you said this was necessary because the distributors were fleeing. And now I want to know: How many new distributors have come to Slovenia since you deregulated the prices? How many new petrol pumps have opened? More? The data on how many pumps closed in the years prior to deregulation as a result of the limitation of margin levels would also be interesting. What were the losses of Petrol and OMV in the last year because they had a limited margin? You have sworn, Minister, that you will work with all your might for the well-being of Slovenia. The only effects of your deregulation policy are the well-being of Petrol and OMW.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u277	Minister of Economic Development and Technology Mr Zdravko Restoršek, you have the floor to complete the response.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u278	Thank you. What happens if and when there's full regulation, we'll see. Companies operating in this market produce their results not only with oil derivatives, but on them to present them; I am not their lawyer. With regard to the impact on prices, I repeat, the impact of excise policy and several regulations, which we have also adopted in order to protect the environment with regard to biofuel interference, will have a bearing on prices from 1 July; whether these will be deregulation or not, will be regulated in the old way, but will have an impact from another title. And I hope that then we can discuss this completely openly. In 2016, when we decided to gradually liberalise the regulated prices of petroleum derivatives, we have, as I have already said, come to the conclusion that the first step alone in 98-octane and fuel oil has not changed. After she's nine. 11. deregulation of the margins on the highway cross, and there were differences down and up. Not the big ones, but there's been a difference. I think in no way to the detriment of consumers, because consumers can immediately punish inappropriate policies by leaving the highway and refueling elsewhere. The market for fuel fuels in Slovenia is considered to be a market for homogeneous products subject to stable and non-elastic demand controlled by two major vertically connected companies. The retail fuel market in Slovenia consists of 519 petrol services, with 9 suppliers present on this market, most of which are controlled by two vertically integrated suppliers. In Slovenia, there are also two so-called discount providers on the retail market of motor fuels, namely M-Energy and FE-Trading. The first one has 21 automated petrol services without personnel. He started operating in 2007 and built the last petrol service in 2011. And the second one has 6 automated petrol services located in the Hofer shopping chain parking lots. In this area, in our view, we also do not have any supply growth due to the system we have. Therefore, I expect that we will continue to be critical of what we are doing; but in any case, we have in the Government a guardian to defend any deviation in the direction you have mentioned by turning to the old system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u279	Miha Kordiš, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to discuss the response to the next meeting of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u280	Thank you, Chairman. We are concerned about the creation of Minister Restoration in connection with the deregulation of the prices of oil derivatives. And so far, we have convened two urgent meetings, we have asked questions from Members, we have tabled initiatives from Members, and since all of this has not been enough, we have also tabled our own law on pricing of oil derivatives, with which we have reintroduced price regulation for all oil derivatives. The deregulation of prices on the dual market, such as in Slovenia, is harmful. This is agreed upon by all serious economists; even more so, it is evident from all government studies, which this government and its neoliberal minister, Restoration, have smoothed and overlooked when the deregulation of oil derivatives prices was finally decided. This is a measure that will undermine all fuels and at the same time create an even bigger gap in the state budget. And this will go to the detriment of the final consumer, i.e. citizens and citizens, it will go to the expense of public finances and it will go to the detriment of the remaining sectors of the economy, because the energy will be undermined. And since the law on the pricing of petroleum derivatives was rejected at the hearing of the parent committee, it did not come to a regular meeting of the National Assembly so that, with greater public attention, they could discuss the harmful policies of Minister Pozvalska. This is a serious topic, which is probably the best reflection of how the government operates after a private capital dictatorship to the detriment of all citizens. In this particular case, it does not even work in the interests of capital as a whole, but deregulation is a typical measure of interest, which will only work to a small fraction that has misused its way into the Ministry of the Economy and has gone to the detriment of everyone else. I therefore request a general debate. By the way, I was running out of time before, Mr. Minister, when prices of 100-octane gasoline and fuel oil were deregulation, promised a system of tracking prices at individual pumps, as they know abroad, a website where they could monitor it. This measure was supported even by the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, which is actually an oil lobbyist. Where is this system today, why is it still gone, when will it be available? We don't know. And we also talked about it on the committee, and we warned about it, and the executive branch did not take that into account. And it would also be good to have a word in this national assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u281	Miha Kordiš, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 20 June 2017, in the framework of the votes. Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, you have the floor to ask the Minister for the Environment and Space of Mrs Irena Majcen, who is excusedly absent, and the Minister without a portfolio responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion, Mrs Alenka Smerkolj.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u282	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. All present, distinguished Madam Minister Alenka Smercolj! Since Mrs Irena Majcen, Minister of Environment and Space, is absent today, I can only ask the question of a Member of the Commission to you who are responsible for development and European cohesion policy. I would like to thank Minister Iren Majcen, at the same time, for sending me a message on Friday because of her absence, that the problem that was the reason for asking the oral question, which we have been solving for a good time, should have been resolved within a week. Let me explain. These are problems of small municipalities, as an example of which I have cited the Municipality of Command, which have been working for a long time at the Ministry of Environment and Space, as well as with the competent authorities of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for development and European cohesion policy, to recover the eligible part of their funds invested in municipal cohesion projects. The promises of the near recovery of the eligible parts of the required European funds for municipal cohesion projects have not yet been fulfilled, according to information provided by the Commanding Community. The failure to pay funds to municipalities is expected to be caused by problems in the functioning of the information system in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia’s Development and Cohesion Policy Service; however, according to other information, payments are not expected to be made because the Ministry of Environment and Space is not yet in charge of everything that this Ministry is responsible for. In small municipalities, the absence of expected inflows of funds may cause serious liquidity problems, which is why municipalities urgently need these funds. That's why I asked both ministers the following question: When will the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Service for Development and Cohesion Policy to municipalities or municipalities be able to reimburse eligible parts of the funds paid for municipal cohesion projects? However, if it is true that the problems will be resolved within one week, I thank both ministers for the efforts they have made to solve this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u283	Minister without a department responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion, Mrs Alenka Smerkolj, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u284	Dear Member, Mrs Bizjak Mlakar, dear Juliana, thank you for this question. The fact is that the issue is really important. It is not only important for small congregations, as you have pointed out, and for the context in which you have raised this question. In fact, the issue is important for all participants in the system of implementation of European cohesion policy, whether small or large municipalities, intermediate, executive bodies, beneficiaries, supervisory authorities, anyone. It is important that the system works, that it is operational and that, after all, together with the two information systems of the Ministry of Finance, these are MFERAC and eCA, it also provides the Republic of Slovenia with inflows from the European budget. It is essential that beneficiaries who carry out projects and may have to advance their own resources for this purpose also receive all of this in accordance with the co-financing contracts. And this is also part of the Municipality Command. Yes, we are also aware of this at the SVRK, and that is why all the changes have been made with the utmost care. We do not want the full implementation of cohesion policy to stop us due to the technical problems of any information systems. And let me explain the plural that I'm using in this context. The whole system is powered by three systems, two at the Ministry of Finance, one at the SVRK; and in order for the whole system to work, all three must understand each other. This integration of data and the exchange of information between these three systems unfortunately lasted longer than I wanted; therefore we had to cut in between after a temporary solution. This is why we have arranged payments in the interim period in the ISARR2 information system. Since June 1st, we have embarked on the production of a new information system, so a number of things have to be done. So in mid-May, we had to stop this temporary system, migrate the data. And what do we have right now? Since 1 June, the whole system has actually been in operation, but those contracts, which, for example, in the Municipality of Command, lived in the old information system, had to be migrated into the new information system and had to be further paired with MFERAC and eCA. This story with MFERAC requires the entry of additional legal bases, additional parent data that the old system did not provide. Once the stories are migrated, then the Ministry of Environment and Space must add some of its own, and the beneficiary must add additional information. Also because of this emergency, work at the Ministry of the Environment and Space could be made even faster, as the Minister personally took part in this. Me on our side, her on mine. And the fact is, a few things have already been done this weekend. The information I have on my part, every day I receive a report in the evening, is that the Municipality Command has actually written something now that once the story is complete, then this request for payment by the Ministry of Environment and Space just confirms. Then the story can go back to us and we can send it back to certification. And that's the day the congregation gets the money. As far as the Municipality of Command is concerned, I think there are two or three other roles, which are also at the Ministry of Environment and Space, which are actually very far away now. So far, so much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u285	Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, you have the floor to request an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u286	The solution to the problem is important for all actors in this matter. Of course, I have specifically highlighted these small entities because liquidity problems may occur there sooner than with large entities. If you want to add anything else, with this intervention, using these two minutes, I'm giving you a chance to say something else. Otherwise, I would really like to thank the two ministers who personally engaged in resolving this problem quickly, even on behalf of all those who are waiting for the money in the back and will now receive it faster than ever. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u287	We have concluded with this issue, and none of the opposition is here, because otherwise we would now say something. Mr Uroš Prikl, you have the floor to ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Zdravek Počvalšk.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u288	Thank you very much, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, those who persist, and, of course, distinguished Mr. Minister, dear Zdravko! On the subject of deregulation or liberalisation, which is better for someone, petroleum derivatives have been said in the past. In a lot of words, last time we heard the virtually identical question of colleague Kordiš, but, dear Minister, a little bit by MGRT, especially when we are talking about the effects of the last, second, deregulation or liberalisation adopted by the Government last November. Literally, a recent analysis by the competition guard, which is all the more than a trivial institution, has been heard. In the last reply to the question you have already answered, you have answered me that the effects of the first deregulation have shown that there has been a minimal increase in prices. Perhaps for someone with a minimum, perhaps for someone with an undetectable price rise, but a few tenths of the price rise, for a few percent, resulting in taxpayers, natural people, citizens and citizens of this country and legal entities having to go to their wallets. The retail price depends, we all know, on a number of duties, which are also the responsibility of other ministries. Let me touch only excise duties and tax policies. On this occasion, I ask you: Are similar changes planned in these areas? Since we are constantly reminding us of the need for constant monitoring of the effects – and these effects have been promised in the form of an analysis – of partial regulation and of the near-existence of the existing government regulation, I ask you: Are you really going to go to the third final, wild liberalisation, the final liberalisation of the prices of petroleum derivatives, or is there still a few possibilities and opportunities for you to listen to the analysis of us, Members and Members, as promised, to get to know this and to finally reach the decision that will be the best? At this point, I do not claim that regulation is complete – to return to the starting point – the best solution, but by no means without analysis of course I cannot say that full liberalisation is the best effect in favour of citizens and citizens of this country. I am interested in the arguments for which I ask you to explain them as precisely and clearly as possible: On what grounds will you decide and go into one of the three options that you have at the conclusion of this Regulation? Above all, we want a thorough analysis and we want a decision that will lead to positive effects, but not that we will fall into some decisions and then we will count damage, financial, such and otherwise, when it is too late for all of this. I thank you for the answer, but if I am to assess that it is necessary to complete my question, of course I will take this opportunity.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u289	Minister for Economic Development and Technology Mr Zdravko Restoršek, you have the floor to reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u290	Mr President, honourable Members, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! Thank you for asking. I'll do my best to answer your questions as accurately as possible. As you have already found, the retail price of oil derivatives also depends on other duties under the responsibility of other ministries. The Ministry of Economic Development and Technology is therefore not affected by all these duties. I don't know if my fellow ministers are planning any changes in this area, but I, as Minister of the Economy, would of course immediately support a lower tax and excise burden on oil derivatives prices, so that through increased sales of derivatives on our highway cross – as I replied before – we would have achieved the same budgetary effect, but we would have made a little more room to liberalise the prices of oil derivatives. Since I strongly believe in the market economy and am a proponent of the free operation of businesses on the market without State interference, I will continue to stress the need to discuss the implementation of market mechanisms. As the implementation of market mechanisms gives businesses the opportunity and the opportunity to compete on the market, I will also propose the full liberalisation of the prices of all oil derivatives. I'm talking about me proposing this, but the government's decision will be what it will be. My decision for this proposal is based both on a survey of the market for motor fuels by the competition guardian, namely AVK, and on an analysis of the price trends of petroleum derivatives that we have prepared together with Umar and the Ministry of Finance. Here I would ask all of us to really look at this analysis and not just evaluate it by sensationalist addresses in individual media. The AVK survey has shown that there are still high levels of barriers to the fuel market, but these obstacles are due to regulated margins and long-term procedures for obtaining all necessary permits. In its study, the Agency also found that there is a potential for developing a discount supply on the fuel market. Therefore, as economic minister, I will try to remove the first obstacle, a regulated margin being called. And I hope that my fellow ministers will take care to remove the remaining entry barriers, so that we will finally have a competitive market with oil derivatives in Slovenia. I will also submit a proposal for full liberalisation on the basis of an analysis that showed that the price of unleaded petrol of higher octane values increased slightly during the period under review, which was 1.3% higher over the period – as you said – than it would have been if it continued to be regulated. Therefore, the actual retail price of extra light combustion oil was 0.3 % lower. As I said before, even in the case of the liberalisation of the highway cross, we record an increase at one end, on the other end of the decrease, on average about the same situation. I am confident that price deregulation will have a positive impact on competitiveness development and, as a result, greater price competition will take place between bidders, which will ultimately benefit consumers, since prices will be the same or lower than they have been before. Once again, I must point out that the price of fuel is not only a margin, but, as you yourself have said, a excise and tax policy, and I think that it is also necessary to take a step forward in this area and enable our oil traders to be more competitive, especially in the area of large transit, which we have on the highway. Because you know that Slovenia can be transported long and fast without refueling, and here I feel that we are losing enormous potential. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u291	Mr. Uroš Prikl, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u292	Of course, I'm going to take this opportunity, because with an answer, of course, I'm not satisfied. I would like to talk to you — as promised — on the basis of this analysis, which is obviously what you are prepared to do and on which basis your decisions are based. And I'm not sure that these are good enough arguments to convince us that we are a little skeptical in this area. I do not wish to be offensive, but I also hope that I am not too gesticulative and that my tone of voice is not too high as you mentioned last time, but I will try to explain in one terminology that is much closer to you. I feel like we're jumping into a pool here, but we don't know if there's enough fluid in there, and if it's deep enough, we're jumping into this pool. That is why I think it is very appropriate that we take a preliminary look at this analysis and find out which way it is to go. I say everything for the benefit of citizens and citizens and, in particular, economic operators, which you must defend as an economic minister. I'm not just talking about the Chamber of Commerce, I'm talking about the whole segment of the economy. With deregulation, you use the right term, liberalisation – I would add an adjective to it, and I will not add it because it would not be appropriate – fuel prices will break the duopol Petrol and OMV and increase competitiveness among oil traders, you predict, Minister. And that didn't happen, and I'm sure it won't happen either. A fresh analysis – I will return to the Ombudsman's analysis – shows that the entry of new bidders has not been and will not be in the short term. It does not matter to be blinded that the Slovenian market is so interesting to foreign suppliers of petroleum derivatives that there will now be some real competition from duopol, because that is not the case. However, I am afraid that with reckless decisions – and here I allow myself a valuable judgment – which you are predicting here, we will briefly draw citizens, citizens and economic operators. Think about it while it's time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u293	Minister of Economic Development and Technology Mr Zdravko Restoršek, you have the floor to complete the response.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u294	Your Honor! I said that I would propose to the Government the full liberalisation of the margins in the field of fuel. I believe we're not jumping into the unknown. I believe that these analyses will be a good basis for such a decision, but in any case I expect us to be aware that this is one of the last, besides school textbooks, the only regulated issue on the market with us. That even in the neighborhood they have completely liberalized fuel prices and that, as they do, we still have an instrument, a protector with whom they can deflect, which would happen if what you say happens, is eliminated in a moment. However, it should be borne in mind that we have a regulated market for petroleum derivatives, I think, since 2003, and that we can extend this matter once or twice under that law. In short, we need to find a solution that will go from the old system to something new. We're sensitive to the warnings you've given us. We will also try to get you all together with these analyses that we have, and I believe that we will come up with an appropriate decision on the government, which will then have to decide on such a system or another system. In any case, I would like to point out once again that we are coming to a time when, because, on the one hand, we have a tax and excise policy that fills the entire space, we need to find a solution for greater marketability in other areas, not only in the margin area. And with July 1st, we will have another issue that will have a direct impact on the price, namely the adoption of regulations in the National Assembly requiring growth, an increase in the share of biofuels that will have a cost-effective impact on prices, not a marginal and deregulation policy. It is said that the prices of the impact will be independent of whether or not we will implement this regulation. In any event, I take note of your warnings and we intend to re-examine all matters before we come up with this final proposal that I have put forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u295	Mr Uroš Prikl, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to discuss the response to the next meeting of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u296	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, it is clear to me that you will propose to the Government, and in the end, the Government will be the one to decide. But it seems to me that I have to say this at this point that it is better to take a week or a month more for thought and not have to extend the regulation in force and then come with a uniformly clear picture of the government, not to have a vote there. You know, when I hear the word "deregulation" or "liberalisation," I'm going to take a risk, "wild liberalisation" and somehow I can't do anything to avoid thinking that we have to hold on to our wallets, because that doesn't bring, in my firm opinion, anything good. At the conclusion, however, I believe that the arguments will also prevail on the part of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. And at the conclusion. Given that he had a practically identical question with his colleague Kordish of the United Left and had already requested a procedural debate to be held in the National Assembly, it seems to me that it is irrelevant to vote twice on the same matter, so I will not request a public debate in the National Assembly. The President, your smile has been quite eloquent. Thank you very much. But if I get a reminder, I'll take it for granted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u297	No, we're not giving reminders today, but we're missing the opposition, probably for half a day, so it doesn't even force us into anything like that. There is therefore no discussion about this. The debate will be on the government. Okay. I hereby end this agenda item, which we will continue tomorrow, 20 June 2017, when the National Assembly, in the framework of the votes, decides on the proposed decisions. I am also adjourning the 31st session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m.
