ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 28th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members of Mrs Irena Grošelj Kosnik, Dr Milan Brglez from 2.30 p.m. to 3.30 p.m., Mr Danilo Anton Ranc to 3 p.m., Mr Tomaž Lisec from 3 p.m. to 3 p.m. Franc Trček by 3 p.m. and Mr Marko Ferluga from 3 p.m. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government to the first item of the agenda, the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia and Dr Matei Access, Dr Rajko Knez, ddr. Klemna Jaklič and Dr. Marjan Pavčnik to the 18b agenda item, representative of the State Prosecutor's Council to the 18th agenda and representatives of the Government to all agenda items. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the agenda for the 28th meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 10 March 2017, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of an item from the agenda or proposals for an extension of the agenda. I propose to the National Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you received by reference. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 83 votes in favour and one against. [[The vote was 83.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 28th meeting of the assembly is set. We're moving on to one. At the time of the day, this is for questions from the Members of Parliament and the Members of Parliament. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 51 questions from the Member States in writing within the time limit. The order of business shall be laid down in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition, as well as the Member of the ruling coalition's question, will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Each Member or Member shall have 3 minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government, Ministers, Ministers and Secretary-General of the Government shall respond to questions within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have 5 minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please be very careful about this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The Member who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister, the Minister and the Secretary-General of the Government. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister or the Secretary-General of the Government shall provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the matter at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. On this point, the Magi apologized for today. Dejan Židan, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr. Peter Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure from 15:00 on, mag. Matthew Vraničnik Erman, Minister of Finance, Mag. Ms Vesna Györkös Žnidar, Minister of the Interior, and Mag. Lilliana Kozlovich, Secretary General of the Government, from 3 p.m. on. An e-club published an overview of the questions sent, which were not answered within the deadline. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. Procedurally, Mr. Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u2	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. I'm essentially referring my procedural proposal to you. Days 12. 1. you, as President of the National Assembly, have sent the Government a written question concerning the digitisation of infrastructure. The deadline for reply by the Government was 12 February 2017. I haven't received that answer today. Through the National Assembly, I wanted to ask the Government's representatives about serious concrete issues relating to the digitisation of infrastructure. It's one of the most important questions. Even if there is a new election, even if there is a newly established government, the digitalisation industry 4.0 will not be able to wait. Therefore, specific matters, specific procedures relating to the digitisation of infrastructure must run today, clearly and loudly and at the moment. On this issue, I have addressed key topics that are most important or vital to the Slovenian economy. This is mainly an information highway, which is important for the economy, it is about standards, digital integration and business operations. It's about introducing a single window and so on. This is a key issue of digital infrastructure. I have not received the reply that should have been given to me personally as a Member on 12 February. Therefore, as President of the National Assembly, I ask you once again to address to the Government this question to get this answer as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u3	As you have already said, the government is present, I think it has heard, but I will certainly fulfill my duty as it should, and I will demand it once again in writing. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first four questions will be answered by the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Miro Cerar. Mr. Jernej Vrtovec, you have the floor to ask the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u4	Dear Mr. President of the Government! There are increasing public concerns about professional and personal fitness and the integrity of certain candidates for the most important positions in state-owned enterprises. At the same time, it often seems that their ability is more important than their political or party affiliation. Therefore, the recruitment of state-owned companies under your government takes place in a totally wrong way, when the reference to appointment is not knowledge, experience and expertise, but only loyalty. They are loyal to people in your office or to influential individuals in the background. Above all, important positions in state-owned enterprises under the patronage of your government are also referred to as people who are supposed to have already damaged state property in the past. According to state-owned companies, respected Prime Minister of the Government, without adequate professional competences and references, the same people are collapsing, and see if you are setting candidates according to the criteria of party loyalty, but not according to the criteria of expertise, then you cannot expect them to work professionally and responsibly. The evidence that everything else is based on expertise, but loyalty, is also the result of the operations of these companies. Let me put in a fresh and hot case of appointment for SDH supervisors. Two of your candidates for supervisors due to alleged past stains are not even supported by the entire coalition. The President, even in your own client, is divided and the statements of your most influential officials change from hour to hour from day to day. You, Mr President of the Government, have always stressed ethics, which should go beyond the legality of conduct and read your Minister of Justice's opinion on one of the candidates that your Government, including you, has confirmed. Citing, Minister Klemenčič said: "When the government decided on the candidates, I was gone. If I had, I would have voted absolutely against it. Three years ago, you can't sign a criminal complaint and a panel opinion that was final and then vote for the candidate." I just want to know how, with all the responsibilities you have in the recruitment of state-owned companies, you can actually sleep peacefully and not act. So I'm wondering: What are the professional criteria for government human resources decisions? All of this is believed by many and by me personally far from the elections of singing ethics and morality. After all these human resources evils, I and the public are interested in: Is it still true? [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u5	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u6	Thank you very much for the question, honourable Member Jernej Vrtovec. First, let me make two things very clear. Staffing in state-owned companies is not within the power of the Government, as you well know, and I assure you that what we have established is that politics does not interfere with this recruitment directly, and we are holding on. That is why I have no problem sleeping in this regard. The government is still functioning as we have committed ourselves to the electorate. You are well aware that we have left business management to the corporate governance system, which means the Government is proposing to the National Assembly of Supervisors of the Slovenian State Holding – a little later – you set them up, choose them, and then they call it the SDH. This administration then further determines who will be sitting in the supervisory boards of state-owned enterprises and then appoints the administrations again. In this way, we have separated politics from the state according to the standards applicable to modern corporate governance. This fact is very important, so politics cannot and must not interfere with these processes, as you said. You're saying that some of the people in my office in this way are recruiting, they're interfering. Look, here we are, unfortunately, faced with a number of untruths, which are also summarized by the media, unverified claims, so you don't give names and evidence either, because you don't have them. The last such case was when it was written about the Post of Slovenia. None of this happened, which was what was written there, which the Post Control Board itself rejected, and also the results of the decisions, were completely different than the media had predicted. There was no political influence. But when someone says when someone writes: politics is unethical, stealing, lying and so on, people quickly believe it because they have been used to it. That's not what this government's doing. Speaking of damaged state companies, I'm asking you, if you're speaking to the public, to bring evidence. You're saying, "some crimes were allegedly committed." These assumptions are huge in our society. I'm expecting evidence. If there is evidence, if there are facts, I am sure that the competent authorities of this government will act immediately on these ministries led by the government. And also the two supervisors who have been proposed to the National Assembly, which are now in the process, let me say that they have been chosen by the Financial Ministry on the basis of a legitimate procedure. This was decided by a completely independent expert commission with highly respected experts, known by the entire Slovenian public, on which the candidates were proposed as the best of the few more than fifteen when they selected the four best candidates. The government relied on the assessment of this commission, on the Ministry's assessment that the proposed candidates were the best candidates. We've chosen two, we've proposed them to the National Assembly. A number of accusations arose immediately, which is very characteristic of Slovenian space. But whether they're real or not, we're just gonna have to find out. Both candidates also came to the National Assembly to reject them, stating some other facts. But now it is up to you Members to judge what arguments they hold. However, I would like to point out that it is with our government that this separation of economy, corporate governance according to the standards of professionalism, responsibility, governance of state-owned enterprises is still being enforced from government policy. Of course, the government has, and I have expectations, and I also publicly say that it is necessary to manage state property responsibly, so that it brings as much of it as possible to have some of it, in the end, citizens and all of us. However, I do not allow politics to interfere directly with this. It is, of course, so that these links are usually established by rumor, media and so on. First, it led to expertise, competence. But what are the views of individual candidates, and then it's their business. That is why I assure you that we are trying to insist on this system. But I can't answer every day all the untruths that appear in public. That is why I expect you Members, that all of us, ministers, will be so right that if there are any suspicions, the accusations that we will check things out. Not that we publicly lynch an individual, an individual, before they even have the opportunity to disprove it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u7	Mr. Jernej Vrtovec, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u8	Thank you very much. That politics doesn't fit, and that's good-night fairy tales. Any policy where the property is owned by the State shall be staffed. And that's how it is. The government is the assembly of SDH and DUTB. That is why the first one is responsible for the bad and for the good that SDH and DUTB do. It's about past manning. Let us remember the year before the New Ljubljana Bank, where the supervisors were replaced, part of the administration changed. Almost everything was done, and then the supervisors gave up. Remember the appointment of UKC Ljubljana and the results of this 25 million euro loss in UKC Ljubljana. Let us remember the appointments and the personnel in energy. I would like to point out that the government is the owner, and that's why she's responsible. Saying that the government does not qualify for coalition parties not to recruit, these are really naive fairy tales, because also an unanimity coalition, at every appointment in this country is a cry and shout by coalition partners, everyone on the trenches and everyone before the government comment on a certain appointment in every state company. This is also evidence that the government is still in charge and that, of course, party interests are, of course, entirely present at these events. But the key thing is, not that the government is recruiting, but that the government will not be recruiting when we get rid of the state's assets in these companies. That will be the end of government and political recruitment. The problem is, who's in charge? Humans who fit only the client key or the key to certain personalities that they want to have there are being recruited, not the professional competences. That's the key problem. I'd still be looking for you in addition to the new SDH monitors. So, what is your opinion, do you personally support these two candidates? Here is this Parliament, which will decide this in the morning, and it is right for Members and Members to know what is the last position of the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u9	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u10	Thank you very much. I didn't say the government wasn't responsible. The government is responsible for any staffing it carries out. And for every proposal and for every act it proposes. I said, however, that the Government is not responsible for the appointment of Heads of Administration or Administrations of State-owned Enterprises because the supervisory councils of these companies are doing this. The supervisory boards of these companies are appointed by the board of the Slovenian State Holding and the Board of Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding. The government here is only the first factor to propose to the National Assembly to appoint these first supervisors of the Slovenian State Holding. You're saying it's logical, that politics is humanizing. That may be your logic, not my logic. It is logical, however, that healthy policies want to be quality. But here I completely agree. Not political, quality. If there are political, no harm if they are of quality and work for the good of Slovenia. And then you manipulate the statements, yes, UKC 25 million losses because we were mismanned. This loss has accumulated for years, years of mismanagement. We too probably bear part of the responsibility, certainly, with the personnel we have carried out in this mandate. But you need to be very clear here. I repeat, only by respecting the corporate governance system, which we have all committed to by law, will we be able to move forward, but not by constantly keeping our eyes open, to anyone who does not carry out certain matters that are not at all competent. And I repeat with respect to the two supervisors who are in the process. They were chosen by the expert commission. The government has to trust the profession. The government has given the profession confidence and sent both candidates to the National Assembly. But I would say something about what is ours and also the big problem in Slovenia. At the time of such treatment, disrespectful, public, as is the case with many candidates who do not deserve it, some may deserve it, many good candidates no longer apply for the procedure. Yeah, who's going to expose themselves to public muck like some yellow media and then unfortunately some other people in or around politics? But who's going to run for office if he's a decent man, if they start writing about him on purpose? And that's our Slovenian problem. But the rest is now under your jurisdiction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u11	Mr Jernej Vrtovec, you have the floor for a procedural request to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u12	Dear Prime Minister, thank you very much for your answers. I would like to discuss this in the National Assembly, because staffing in this country is a problem, a problem we have been facing for 25 years. I really don't believe that SDH says as your boys do, I would say, Mr. Klemenčič, on vampires somewhere in Vic. I am sure that if SDH did not follow your instructions, according to the instructions of the party's secretaries-general, according to the client key, the supervisory board or the SDH administration would be replaced within one month. It's a naked fact. Once again, there's nothing wrong with the fact that politics is recruiting. As long as everything's state-owned, whatever's in state-owned, politics is in charge. The problem is, how do you frame yourself? The problem is how and who she's recruiting with. You said before, professional competences, they were chosen and so on. Again, you've forgotten what you said before the elections, about ethics. What does someone who's expert help you if there's a lump on the other side? Dear National Assembly, I propose that we hold a thorough debate on the recruitment of state-owned enterprises, because this is indeed a problem. People also lose confidence in the National Assembly, the government and the whole country. We must not afford this, however, that we are completely without public confidence.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u13	Mr Jernej Vrtovec, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Friday, 24 March 2017, in the framework of the votes. Dr. Bojan Dobovšek, you have the floor to ask the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u14	Thank you. All those who accompany this meeting are respected! I'm asking the Prime Minister a question about the staffing of the Hit casino company. We can see that the period of this government is characterized by untransparent staffing. This was also the previous point of discussion. It is about starting together in the recruitment of SDH supervisors and consequently the entire chain to state-owned companies. I'm exposing the Hit casino company. The whole procedure was not transparent for the President of the Management Board. Why? What am I talking about? First of all, the candidate has submitted an incomplete role in all opinions and after what the media have reported. Furthermore, the Personnel Agency hired by the Supervisory Board did not include this candidate as its favourite. In addition, there is no reference in the casino, and references are still important. And, of course, what the media says is that the candidate had connections with the Minister of Economy. In view of all the above, I ask you: Are these the new standards and standards, as you say, as you promised before the elections? Do you think it is appropriate for a person who does not have appropriate references to occupy a certain job and, as is often said, to have a vision? How do you think you're going to do a supervisory function in state-owned enterprises and introduce liability mechanisms? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u15	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u16	Thank you very much. This is actually the continuation of the previous issue, the subject matter, with a focus on the selection of members of the Hit administration, i.e. also the President of the Management Board. I'm just gonna have to repeat some things. Let me first say something to show you how we're being discussed. "Obvious links to Minister Restoration" and so on. How do you know that? Minister Resteršek gave me a personal assurance that the statement that the new President of the Management Board of Hit was his personal friend or friend of his friend was not true. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Yeah, he probably knows better who his friend is and who he's not. [[Laughing in the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u17	Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u18	That's why I'm really resisting this debate, and I'm going to have to, unfortunately, continue it, because you simply state a claim that's not true, you're going to take it from a medium that's given a statement that's not true, and then you have to prove constantly someone on the other side that he didn't do anything wrong and that he didn't do it. Why don't you prove your point? Where are the facts? But let's get to the other thing. You say, "The procedure was impregnable, it was given an incomplete role," I don't know, I didn't see these roles, if you saw it, I'm interested in where you got it. But surely, if the role was incomplete, it was very wrong, the Human Resources Agency did not do its job. You say, "there are no references to gambling," as if, I don't know, every director already has references to exactly the area he's going on, but let's leave it to whoever knows the economy who doesn't. I'm sure I won't get involved in this. The fact is, I just explained earlier, the government can't and won't interfere with any deployment in Hit. Yes, we can express our expectation, publicly and always, that I would like such an important state-owned enterprise to be run by a competent person so that the procedures can be transparent, as you say, honourable Member, all of this is true, I agree, but this must be carried out by the competent supervisory board. This isn't the government. And if these irregularities are available, you, the other participants in the procedure, will file legal remedies and this will be determined. But I can't discuss it because it's neither fair nor right, some things that aren't done with anything. He's a friend of mine, and before that, it's said a lot of things that he doesn't hold, I repeat. Therefore, once again, a serious debate always provides an opportunity for others to explain their position, and above all requires some correctness with the facts. Let me conclude that we will certainly continue with this policy, the policy of non-interference of the Government, the political parties in concrete human resources in companies. Yes, there are questions, there are various initiatives, there is this, but we have to put an end to this practice and we are putting an end to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u19	Dr. Bojan Dobovšek, you have the floor to request a reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u20	Thank you. As we have seen, it is again about the specific use of defence mechanisms. It is a matter of talking about political responsibility, not criminal responsibility. The government has political responsibility. The government is obliged to take care of EOCD standards for corporate governance of state property. This means that it creates policies, not visions, as you create them by 2050, because policies can check the objectives of creating transparent, responsible mechanisms and establishing control, and responds to Parliament. Of course, you mentioned last time that Parliament has appointed supervisors and that Parliament is responsible. You are responsible for the entire SDH control process and the indirect entire chain. If you say the government is not involved – then what about the Cimos case? You're involved in Cimos. And as long as it looks good, you bragged, but after it didn't look good, it's all SDH's responsibility. Now I'm curious, given these candidates: Was any of the candidates in contact with you, the Minister of the Economy or your advisor, Mr. Keseljjevic? Were these contacts if you didn't get involved? But the important thing about Chief Hit is he doesn't have any references. It is another important activity that has many social impacts on our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u21	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Let me repeat that the government is not running away and is not evading responsibility. For what we are responsible, we will always be responsible, and that is why we are here today. We are always accountable to Parliament and are also accountable to citizens and citizens. And if you consider that there is some evidence, whatever we have done wrong, you will certainly exercise this responsibility, and today we are in the matter of questions sent. So the government's political responsibility, of course, exists. We are deeply concerned about the way it should be exercised, so we are working hard, working to justify this responsibility. You mentioned Cimos. What happened? It was necessary to make contact with the neighbouring country. SDH and DUTB do not have these international opportunities and powers, so they asked our economic minister to establish this contact for the benefit of our Slovenian workers, especially Cimos, employment and so on. And what would you like? To say, "No, that's not what we're interested in." The minister didn't do anything outside of his work circle. He took care of the economic development of Slovenia by establishing a useful contact with the Croatian government in the direction of some agreement that will help keep Cimos alive and that the jobs are still here and that we will go ahead with the development of Cimos. The Minister has not exceeded his powers here in any way, but he has helped. Finally, SDH and DUTB are still responsible for this process. If you think that the government is responsible for Hit, then you will probably file an intervention against the government or something like that, but I believe you won't be able to do it or you won't do it because it's completely unrelated, because I repeat, the appointment of the President of the Hit Board was in the hands of the Supervisory Board of the Hit, which exercised this authority, appointed the candidate for the President of the Management Board. If there has been any irregularity there, it will be on request, initiatives, however competent authorities must detect it. I just can't figure out if it was an irregularity, because I don't have any data. You didn't submit them either. You're talking to me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u23	Dr. Bojan Dobovšek, you have the floor for a procedural request to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u24	Thank you. Of course, I propose that a debate be held at the next meeting on such an important point. But I still haven't received an answer to the question whether you or your minister or your advisor were in contact with the people who ran for office in Hit. Why is this an important activity of particular social importance? Because of the dependence on gambling, which has wider social consequences. Because of the possibility of money laundering. Due to the possibility of concealing financial flows, which is also noted by history, the activity has always been part of the field of security intelligence. We still have no response from the Commission to prevent corruption, what has happened to the one you have appointed as Head of the Owl. It is said that there is still some important activity for the security of the state at this time, for financial flows and for the direct involvement of the Government in the recruitment. Another important segment is the press when you mentioned that journalists write lies. You said all our facts came from the press reports. So we can't trust the press. We see what's going on in Delo's biggest society. Many journalists lose their jobs, as well as in the News. And now you're saying these journalists are spreading lies. The battle for investigative journalism takes place in front of our eyes. How do we Members get information? Through the press. You have a whole range of state authorities under you, and you can get information, and we depend on investigative journalists. I've always supported investigative journalists, and that's the essence of democracy, the fourth branch of power, you've aligned both branches, the pressure on the court branch, and now the fourth branch, journalism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u25	Dr. Bojan Dobovšek, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Friday, 24 March 2017, in the framework of the votes. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, you have the floor to ask the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Mr President, if it was SDH's fault for the time being, not the press, then we'll have a better job because, say, a thousand 350 condoms for migrants, and it's not SDH, but the government has. That's why we'll be easier with the facts. But let's go in one order. See, the issue of illegal migration is a European issue, including the Slovenian issue. It is true that the European Union does not have uniform asylum legislation, and it is also true that the matter is largely left to the Member States. It depends on Member States how they respond, how they take advantage of this, how they protect their citizens and their borders. You will probably say that the Republic of Slovenia has done everything right on the issue of illegal migration since 2015. You've said that a number of times. Of course I will have to remind you that we warned you in June 2015, set up fences, protect the border. You mocked us, Mr. President. You laughed at us and told us that you wouldn't do it, that you wouldn't do what Orban did. Two months after that, you set up fences or technical barriers, you told them, but it's the same thing. In 2015, from Ljubljana there in Budapest there was quite a mockery of what Hungary was doing. Well, then you met Mr. Orban, and you asked for a wire. At least that's what the media reported. In 2015, I think that the month of June, you accepted a letter from our President Janša on how to solve the problem of illegal migration. One of the points was: consider it at the European level and help Macedonians close the border. You rejected that letter. Well, two months after that, you sold the idea in Brussels as your idea that a border should be closed in Macedonia. In 2015 we told you to change the law on defence. You didn't. You accepted it in 2016. In 2015 we told you that the Penal Code should be amended. No, no, no. Now you're changing it. Practically exactly. What I'm asking you is, in fact, a look ahead. The Turkish President made it very clear days ago that he would open the border for illegal migrants and send them to Europe. The Turkish President also mentions the possibility of religious wars across Europe. Slovenia is part of Europe. That's why I'm asking you: Did we recognize this as a country? Are we, as a country, ready for all of this? Do we have enough police capacity? Do you think we can successfully confront a possible or most likely new wave of migration? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u27	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Miro Cera, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u28	Thank you very much. In the beginning, you raised the debate to an envious level, and I'm going to stay on this one when you're done, and I wouldn't go to that beginning. As you know, we have indeed successfully mastered an extremely large mass migration wave in 2015/2016, when almost half a million migrants passed through Slovenia, as we know. At that time, indeed, a number of public authorities, volunteers, all others, acted in a self - sacrificing way. I thank them again here. We are prepared for a possible new numbered or even mass wave of migrants, if it comes to it, to be good, both materially, humanely and financially, because we also need to count on this possibility, even though we hope that it will not happen. Police at the green border and border crossings with the Republic of Croatia exercise increased control. Illegal migration from the Republic of Slovenia to other countries, including Slovenia to other countries, is virtually non-existent or minimal. Because even if the illegals come to us, we're making a successful return. The police are still assisting members of the Slovenian Armed Forces to a limited extent in protecting the state border, and the police reserve is larger. Temporary technical barriers at individual sections of the southern border serve to control the crossing of the state border, thus directing those who would like to come to Slovenia to the points of entry where it is easier to check whether they are illegal or other migrants. Some reception centers, such as Lendava, in Šentil, remain ready. If necessary, however, centres along the national border with the Republic of Croatia will also be activated. We are prepared to increase the arrival of applicants with international protection, and in a specific contingent plan all measures, competent authorities, systems of possible response to an emergency situation and so on are prepared. The implementation of the plan shall be accompanied by a narrow operational group under the MNZ. The Ministry of Health is responsible for providing emergency medical care to migrants if necessary. We have recently set up a government office for the care and integration of migrants, and our goal remains not only what we have demonstrated so far, but a responsible attitude towards the fact that we are humane on the one hand for those who are actually fleeing serious things, against the wars that run in fear of life, to treat them humanely, while at the same time protecting our citizens and their assets, to ensure that we have these two aspects constantly before our eyes. And most importantly, Slovenia is constantly, every day, I can say, proactive in its preventive and stimulating work. We are helping all those key countries that are at the external borders of the European Union to make it easier for us to carry out appropriate controls at the external borders, and to prevent illegal migration, so that the Schengen area and the internal borders of the European Union may not be a problem, they can still be open. As you know, on our initiative, a number of consultations were also convened at the level of the European Union, where we encouraged this joint action and also actively participated and succeeded, as you yourself have found, in helping really intensively to close this so-called Balkan path. We have also supported the statement in Malta, and we are also working in other areas to help us now tackle the so-called Mediterranean route across Italy, which opens up in some way and presents a new challenge. We are aware that, with the unpredictability of the situation, numerous migrations can occur again, so we are ready, as I have said, and therefore we are acting preventively. Even at the level of the European Council, we are always taking our own initiatives, making our own proposals to draw conclusions, which are also often taken into account. Most of the time, I can say they've been taken into account. We are in constant contact through internal affairs, external matters, also personally with neighbouring countries, to coordinate action on illegal migration, on criminal associations in this area and in particular on security matters, as the security threat is also very severe in Europe, as we know, and especially beyond the borders of Europe. So the activity is very large and we stay awake. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u29	Dr. Vinko Gorenak, you have the floor to request a response.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u30	Thank you very much. At first there was a little awkward situation when I was talking about condoms, and I think Mr President thought I was joking. Look, in a public order issued by the Ministry of the Interior in January this year, you ordered and purchased 1,350 condoms for migrants. Excuse me! Excuse me! But we're going in order. In the Republic of Slovenia, according to the Court of Auditors report, we are spending a thousand 936 euros on one asylum seeker. The minimum wage, as you know, is around €660 or a minimum full-time pension of €440. Of course you'll say there's a wage bill and everything. Of course they're numbered, but if there weren't asylum seekers, there wouldn't be any employees there. Then the cost would be nothing. Thus, the cost is a thousand EUR 963. I am fully aware of what conventions, personal hygiene and so on require. But, Mr President, instead of a luxury jacket, according to your own words or soap, you can also buy common soap. Instead of a luxury shampoo, you can buy a simple shampoo. You can put an old TV in their apartment, not ask them for an LCD TV, 81 diagonals, which does not have three quarters of Slovenians, three quarters of Slovenian citizens who pay for it. I must protest against such a way of functioning of the Government, which does what it does in this area, that there is no money for citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, but money is obviously enough for asylum seekers. You can tell me it's populism, and I don't know what it is. Okay. That's what you're gonna say. But if we finish, there's no reason to buy condoms for asylum seekers. Every citizen who goes here between the government and parliament, walk once, and you will see at least five beggars. They're all Slovenian citizens, and they've all done something for this country, and they've got nothing. It's not right. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u31	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u32	I'm sorry to have to say this in front of the well-respected assembly, but apparently you and your client are dealing with condoms, and we're dealing with serious matters. Let me tell you something, Mr Gorenak, let me tell you something, remember this: that in our country, asylum seekers will not be allowed to do so by my government. You said there should be nothing left to screw up. That's what you said. Look at the record. If you think to make Slovenia a country that will be so insolvent that people who really need help running for their lives will not accept them, refuse to talk about those other things that we have just mentioned as unnecessary, then this is simply not my Slovenia and would never try to do so again. And this deception of yours, we've had twice before, I think it was right with you that I had this discussion here about these costs. It's not true, it's not true, and it's for the public to know that it's not true that we buy luxury items for refugees or anyone. Of course, they should also have the pleasure of washing themselves, of course, that they must have basic needs and some accommodation skills. That is why I do not agree to such a debate, especially because I am making every effort with this government to make this humane attitude very balanced, including with regard to the safety of citizens and citizens. I think that citizens will decide for themselves whether we have successfully taken care of their safety so far. But Slovenia will remain a solidarity member of the European Union, we will not accept as many people as we cannot, because we cannot integrate them because we cannot take care of them, because then we all have a problem. But we will receive people who are in distress until we can only help them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u33	Dr. Vinko Gorenak, you have the floor for a procedural request to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u34	Clearly, this debate is necessary, because the President of the Government claims something that is not true. You buy condoms. We don't deal with condoms. You ordered them, and you paid for them. Don't tell me we're dealing with this right now. We deal with Slovenian citizens, you know, who have 440 euros in pension or 660 euros in salary, so we remind you of what you are doing. But I didn't say that Slovenia shouldn't accept anyone. In 1994, Slovenia accepted, and we know exactly how many, 70,000 people, Mr President, but these were older men, children and women, none of your age, and there were up to 18 years of age among them. And today, look at the numbers, and you'll see who the asylum seekers are. These are not "poor" people from war zones, this is the majority of economic migrants, which your government – which is right – rejects, which is also right. But I can't land and I will never land, I stress, I will never agree to spend – here we are with condoms again, buying these things and spending the thousands of 963 euros paid by people who have 400 euros in pensions. I can't agree to this! I am aware of the need for solidarity in the country of Slovenia, and it is right that it is solidarity, but for those who need help. These are basically children, these are older people, these are women, not young men who should go home, Mr President. Let them take the gun into their hands and make a country! If they did this to me in 1991 and ran to Austria, then we wouldn't be here today. Why? Because this country wouldn't be. That's the thing I'm warning you about. And once again, Mr President, it is not right to do what is done. It is necessary at the interior ministry – now, of course, the interior minister has put this nicely on some office to get a director there. But, look, you can buy some ordinary soap, why it has to be perfume soap. You can buy a common toothpaste, why it has to be that I don't know how nice. Just stop with the condoms. This is about things that are not admissible, and I think there is a need for a debate on this subject. And we need to say something about this subject. But, President, I speak, as you can see, with a rather calm tone. But I don't remember the Prime Minister, anyone who would answer so arrogantly and so rudely. And I was sitting alone in those meatballs when someone who wasn't a Slovenian by nationality thought I was a scum of the nation, and I don't know what. And I'm not crazy. Let yourself be a little bit more normal, and think a little bit about how this site led the European Union, not only Slovenia, but also successfully. It is therefore necessary to discuss this and I propose it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u35	There was no explanation for this. You mentioned it at the outset, and of course we will discuss it, because we have to take a decision on it. So Dr. Vinko Gorenak, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Friday 24 March 2017 in the framework of the votes. At the same time, you just spoke, insulted the President of the Government, spoke directly to him, even though we should base the proposal for a debate, and not by any means give him back whatever he said, what he could say is not the purpose of this last phase in that you have the last word. That's really not the point. So please don't do this again. Mr Jan Škoberne, you have the floor to ask the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar. Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nor did you need such a strong response and training of someone who asked the question, reasoned and by reference to the invitation to tender issued by the Government. Nor is there any need for such a response to the fact that he has argued his proposal for a discussion. I think that this anxiety, which is happening more and more in the National Assembly, is being addressed within the coalition of the National Assembly and the government team. There is no need to use this accounting with the opposition to hide other things. I would recommend to you, Mr President, that in the future you keep abreast of the debates of your Members, that you also closely monitor the performances of your ministers, who come in one way or another to strike into the National Assembly and make scenes, that you also act with those who speak all kinds in this National Assembly in one way or another. But obviously in this coalition, you're the one who's arbitrating, deciding what's right and what's wrong, who's not, who's not to be discredited or reminded, etc. If you refer to the rules of the National Assembly, if you refer to the Rules of Procedure, if you refer to practice, then be consistent in this work. That's all we expect and nothing else. In these arguments, the President of the Government actually took offense and also laughed at this reply, his first colleague, Mr Vinko Gorenak. No basis. The government's execution of a public order is a fact. At least the Prime Minister could know what he ordered for migrants. At least I could know if he's already in charge. Old people, and I don't know who's coming here for international protection or anything, don't need these condoms. But young heroes are needed if I say very domestically. I suggest that in these matters, Mr President, you are calm, consistent and do not provoke the reactions of others themselves in response to your statements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u37	As I said before, he takes the floor to ask the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Jan Škoberne.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear ministerial assembly, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government! Britain continues to repay its war loans 100 years after the end of World War I. This is possible because investors believe that no matter how severe the situation may be, countries will fulfil their obligations. Slovenia was one of these countries, which, irrespective of its sharpness, always respected the agreements it had concluded in the community. So, for example, Zujf and I solved the Maastricht agreement, so we wrote down a fiscal rule in the Constitution, and we sell state property more quickly than we should today because we committed ourselves to it. A few days ago, Uroš Slak in his show revealed that workers, craftsmen and small entrepreneurs who had built and worked for Vegrad had not been paid for bankruptcy and had agreed that they would get apartments in exchange for the input and the work done, which had been valued at a highly inflated, high, almost twice price, to compensate that the state NLB would erase the mortgages and that at least part of the work done would receive a fair payment. Then, instead of handing over the NLB apartments to the craftsmen and paying the workers, this went back to the state DUTB as a claim. And today, I believe, look at the fraction, it happens that the DUB does not have the basic intention of paying these workers and craftsmen, but from these people who have done their part they have not received the payment, it costs another thousand euros. It's a country, not too much to say, owned by NLB and DUTB. That's why I have a rhetorical question, because I believe in this country and this government: Will the government act as a congregation without delay and ensure that the agreement concluded with craftsmen is respected with workers who have been made in the same way as all other arrangements — in good faith that it will be fulfilled? It would be very wrong for people to feel that the country will only fulfil its agreements when it concludes with the European Commission, the International Monetary Fund, but not when it has to guarantee that they will be met by workers, craftsmen, small entrepreneurs. Because I believe in this government and because I believe in this country, I am sure that your answer will be: yes, of course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u39	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u40	Thank you very much, distinguished Member Jan Škoberne. Allow me first to make some introductions so that the public will understand the context in which I give this answer. As you know, DUTB acquired an apartment by means of a measure of transfer of risk items aimed at strengthening the stability of banks. In the course of its implementation in banks in need of State aid, DUTB also took on risk items from banks, mostly poor loans, some of which were also secured by real estate. This is also the case with the Courts of Celov. The main task of the DUTB is to manage the assets it has acquired from banks in such a way as to be able to reimburse, to the maximum extent possible, the taxpayers' funds invested in the rehabilitation of banks. The assets held by DUTB cannot thus be used to achieve other objectives, but the DUTB, and this is important, must manage this asset in accordance with the principle of good economic operator and the principles of international corporate governance standards. The DUTB work shall be supervised by the Ministry of Finance on the basis of legislation. But this does not mean that the ministry could be defined for specific business managed by the DUTB on its own. But the government, as you have stated, is the DUTB Assembly, but it is not the government that is responsible for managing the business, it is absolutely clear, but management, and it is compensation and corporate law. The government, as a congregation, cannot directly decide on the issues of direct business management unless it requires management alone. Now I'm moving on to this problem. This news came to me from the media, and I was worried, just like you. As I said before, sometimes the media – I said differently than it then sums up things as they are, but sometimes, especially in the so-called yellow press, or wherever there are no truths. That is why we are very careful and examine every matter. That is why I have instructed the Ministry of Finance to obtain all information from the DUTB as soon as possible and to also just check what is on this matter. Once it is clear what it holds and what it does, we can see who is responsible for some action. However, I certainly agree that, I will say a little more humanely that it should not be possible for someone to bring around entrepreneurs who have done their job honestly with clear assurances as to how they will acquire real estate. That is why I will take a step further, and therefore I expect the Ministry to brief me as soon as possible on the facts, the situation and then we will see who is responsible for taking the measures if you need them, because we must certainly think in the direction you have been thinking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u41	Mr. Jan Škoberne, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u42	Dear Mr President of the Government, thank you very much for the answer, even with the last part, we can be pleased with the spirit of the last part. But let me do something. When it was the issue of Cimosa, and so it is, the government led by the minister reacted quickly, I think within a week, and provided 7 million. When it came to the question of Magne Steyr, we immediately passed the law. This is about three questions: Are there really mortgages that should be erased when a user permit is obtained? And if they do exist, does the DUTB claim that the additional payment of thousands of euros is still due to someone who, in fact, is owned by this society, the country, however you wish now, is liable to pay for a decent job? If that's true, it needs to be resolved now. We don't need to know who's in charge. If the Government is competent to recapitalise DUTB with 50 million, while we have to adopt the whole law to save J's group of the worst-paid public servants in this National Assembly, then I believe that who – I don't care who – or Minister of Economy or Minister of Finance, if you authorize me, will be happy to pick up the phone, ask, and then the government must act as Assembly. Preferably this Thursday. People have been working, borrowing their money, and it is not worth reading from the list the procedural powers of the Government to the DUTB. They are worth answering — yes, we will act as soon as possible. And in this part, I am grateful to you. But I sincerely ask you, honestly, not just you, the whole government, that this question that I am asking today will not have to be asked in a month's time. That's the only answer I'm asking for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u43	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u44	Yes, very briefly. As I said, the facts are already being studied and I demanded that this be determined immediately to see where we are, what really happened. Once it's known, someone's gonna have to act. Of course, we need to talk about jurisdiction, because we need to know whether the DUB or the ministry or the government must act. Surely, however, this government will not overlook man. You know that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u45	I thank the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the answers provided. In accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we are also moving on to the questions raised at the 27th meeting of the National Assembly. First, Mr Karl Erjavec, Minister for Foreign Affairs, will answer Mr Ninja Mahnič's question regarding the Ministry of Justice's legal proposals regarding relations between the United States and the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u46	Thank you very much. I also welcome everyone, the President of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament. I have read very carefully the question of Mr Jana Mahnič. It refers in particular to relations with the United States of America and also mentions the pro-Russian foreign policy of the Republic of Slovenia. Before giving an answer, I would also like to explain because it was obvious that the Minister for Foreign Affairs was usually not present when the point of the National Assembly was asked questions. I have to say, this is about objective reasons. We always have on Mondays the first or second week of the month of the Council of Foreign Ministers. This is the main reason why I am usually absent when it comes to the item on the agenda relating to parliamentary matters. However, I would also like to say when we have the Foreign Policy Committee, but we always have a point of question and initiative. There I always answer all questions from Members and Members. So that there is no public impression that the Minister for Foreign Affairs does not wish to participate in the meetings of the National Assembly, where the question is referred. As far as the question is concerned, Member Jan Mahnic believes that Slovenian foreign policy is too pro-Russian. I would say that it is not so that we respect, in particular, the recorded starting points adopted by this National Assembly. This is the Declaration on the Foreign Policy of the Republic of Slovenia. When we are talking about relations between Slovenia and the Russian Federation, I must make it very clear that we are in favour of all the views that have also been adopted both within the EU and in the NATO Union. In particular, these views on Ukraine. You know that Slovenia has been stressing all the time, and even when I have talks with Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lovrov, I always say very clearly that Slovenia protects Ukraine's independence and sovereignty. We have the same position when it comes to the situation in Crimea. However, I must say that we have economic relations with Russia through a mixed economic commission where I am co-chaired, and perhaps this is why I feel like I am the main protagonist of the pro-Russian foreign policy in the Republic of Slovenia. However, I am convinced that it is in the Slovenian interest, in the interest of the Slovenian economy, that we are establishing this economic cooperation through a mixed economic commission, because this is the way of action when it comes to countries in particular in the eastern part of Europe, such as Russia, in Central Asia, for example, I travel to Turkmenistan on Sunday, where I am also co-chairing the Mixed Economic Cooperation Commissions. As far as cooperation with the United States of America is concerned, we are a strong member of transatlantic cooperation. Even if we look at our obligations when it comes to peacekeeping and other operations under NATO, we respect all the conclusions that we make there within NATO. See, the last such important decision was the decision to send Slovenian soldiers to Latvia. That's what they say, near the Russian Federation. In this regard, there have also been many questions from the media, what does this mean, how the Russian Federation will react to this. But we are doing our duty. In another way, however, we were told that by sending the Slovenian army to this battalion to lead pro-American politics. I am very pleased with the economic cooperation with the United States of America. Let me say that in 2016 the trade exchange was 823 million euros, which means 3% more than in 2015 and even 6% more exports.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u47	Mr. Jean Mahnič, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Mr. Secretary! As far as this initial observation is concerned, you do not want to answer the Members' questions, I just said that you are mostly absent, which statistics also attach. But then you put yourself in an awkward position when you said you had international obligations always the first or second Monday of the month. However, the questions raised at the meeting of the National Assembly are the third or fourth Monday of the month. It has never happened, as far as I am in Parliament, that the meeting would be the first or second Monday. You said yourself that you are considered the main protagonist of the pro-Russian politics. Mr. Secretary, can you tell me: How many times have you been in Russia since you were Foreign Minister and how many times have you been in the United States? Can you tell me: How many times have representatives of the Russian army visited the First Brigade of the Slovenian Army and how many times have representatives of the United States Army. I'm also interested in: How do you comment on the President of the Republic of Borut Pahor, who, despite having a clear foreign policy strategy, writes that our valuable centre is the European Union and NATO, that he goes to Moscow at the same time as to Kiev? This seems to me mainly like some kind of unlisted policy, we don't want to get angry with Russia, we don't want to get angry about NATO. Above all, I am interested, we know that Slovenia is in principle in favour of economic sanctions against Russia: How do you comment that the President then signs contracts representing a trade of EUR 650 million, in line with these economic sanctions? I'm also interested in your comment: How do you think that the majority of Slovenian public opinion is to see Slovenia defend Russia as the United States of America in the event of an armed conflict? In short, we are considered a pro-Russian country in the United States and the European Union. But most of all, I'm curious. You didn't say: What will you do to improve relations with the United States?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u49	Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Karl Erjavec, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u50	Thank you very much. As for my visits to the United States of America, I must say that I am in the United States at least once or twice a year. Last year, when the conference was against Daesh, it was in July and when the General Assembly of the United Nations was held. This, of course, has nothing to do with relations with the United States of America, because it is the UN. I must tell you that at the time of the General Assembly, the US Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs always organises a dinner where we have the opportunity to discuss international crises, as well as bilateral cooperation. Maybe it's just a coincidence that I'm going back to Washington early tomorrow morning, where we're going to have an international conference on the fight against terrorism. That's how I feel about it. I think in the context of programs and plans, because you need to know, you can't come out uninvited somewhere, but it's usually the result of some kind of invitation that I'm very pleased with. However, I would not like to ignore the many informal bilateral meetings I had with Secretary of State John Kerry, for example, at the edge of the NATO conference, which we have twice a year, and on any other occasion. As regards the visit of the Russian representatives of the First Slovenian Army Brigade, I think it is more responsible for the Minister of Defence to respond. But since I myself have been Minister of Defence for four years, I know that we have very close cooperation with the United States of America, not least we have certain exercises in common. I therefore think that this cooperation is in line with the programmes. It's about the president's path. You mentioned Moscow and Kiev, but I must say, before that, it was in Berlin. This was just a Berlin-Moscow-Kiev tour because it was trying to help resolve these difficult issues facing the European Union. As far as public opinion is concerned, I find that difficult to comment on. I am not an expert in public opinion, but it is very convenient if most Slovenians think that the Russian Federation would better defend our country than the United States. I find it difficult to explain why such an attitude is, but I am sure that you do not judge those who do.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u51	Mr Jan Mahnic, you have the floor for a procedural request to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, President. At least one last sentence, Mr. Minister, but you're 100 percent right. Look, my question wasn't in terms of how many times you've been in the United States as Foreign Minister when you go to multilateral affairs. It makes sense that you're going to Washington tomorrow, where there's a coalition meeting against Daesh, and that you're also attending meetings held by NATO. My question was in terms of how many times have you been invited to an official visit to the United States of America, how many times have you represented Slovenia as an official, as Minister of Foreign Affairs in the United States of America, at the invitation of the American President or his administration, on the one hand. And on the other hand, how many times have you been in the official role of bilateral meetings, not at informal talks in Russia or when Russian representatives came to Slovenia? I am not an expert in public opinion either, but I am simply explaining why Slovenians and Slovenians, citizens and citizens want or see Russia defend us better than the United States. If you have state officials practically every month in Moscow, if the official representatives of the Russian Federation come to Slovenia several times a year, it is logical that you are citizens and citizens. In addition, we know how Putin uses this hybrid warfare, one of the points of this hybrid warfare, which is mainly media propaganda against Slovenia, very successfully. Unfortunately, we have no strategy to confront these hybrid threats, how to resist this media propaganda, except that we have some serious agency or unit for some anti-cybernet defense, although, as I hear, it is now being built. I think, the President, given that I asked when there was no minister, and today, in addition to what these measures are, or how Slovenia thinks to improve relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the United States of America, the Minister gave one EUR 823 million trade in goods, see how the trade between Austria and the United States has grown between Poland and the United States has grown, between the Czech Republic and the United States, I think it is necessary to have a debate in this National Assembly on how we will improve this situation. Regardless of everything, it is our important allies, twice – because you like to stress – the Americans have already saved Europe by ending the two world seas with their intervention and we want good cooperation with them, not least being the strongest military state in the world. All ten other states on the military power scale do not provide as much money for defence and do not have the military of the United States.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u53	Mr Jan Mahnic, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Friday, 24 March 2017, in the framework of the votes. Now the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič, will answer Mr Andrej Couch's question about the situation of young people.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u54	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Members, Members, Ministers, Ministers! The youth area is, of course, an area that does not belong only in the MIZŠ district, but it is one of the issues addressed to the whole Government and which the Government is also trying to deal actively with within the districts. We also cooperate within the Council of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for youth not only with all representatives of the youth sector and with all those who are carriers and operators of youth policies, but also with all representatives of the departments. This is the only way we can fully and truly pursue policies that help to develop and, above all, the situation of young people. Let me say, therefore, that in terms of youth employment, Slovenia is one of those that has also shown the greatest progress within the European Union both in the employment structure of young people and in achieving the development of new jobs for young people, and let me say that we are also very successful in working with the Slovenian Youth Council and the Youth Network of the Mama Youth Centres when we are not only engaged in structured dialogues, but we are also trying to carry out all the activities defined in the National Youth Programme. True, all these activities have not yet been carried out. Even recently, when we have also received the evaluation of the Court of Auditors with all the so-called recommendations, we can say that some of the measures are already under way, that we already have answers to these recommendations, and some of the recommendations will still need more time. Nevertheless, I can also say that the Council of the Republic of Slovenia has met several times for youth on various subjects, and in the past it has not been the case, precisely in order to address this integrity of policies. Let me say some concrete results and starting points that have contributed to young people being able to find a better position. In order to develop the youth sector and enhance the competence of young people, funds from different youth organisations and members of the youth sector in the construction of 11 youth hotels have benefited from the past perspective. The call for support for facilities in the area of civil social cultural competences, which amounted to approximately EUR 4 million, was also exploited, as well as in terms of the development of additional competences needed, of EUR 800 000. We also referred to NGOs in the sector in particular in terms of social civic competences. Probably the most important and also already implemented is the call for the promotion of active citizenship of young people, which amounts to €5 million in 2016-2018, and two projects, which are crucial in particular in terms of obtaining informal competences, are the development of models of informal and formal education and so-called public sensitisation for young people. One of the achievements of this mandate is certainly also the confirmation of the professional qualifications of a youth worker. As you know, it took a number of years for us to be together at the professional level. The Council of Experts of the Republic of Slovenia has also supported this and the activities are already under way. From the point of view of the national youth programme I have already mentioned, there are areas that are more acute and need to be addressed over and over again. For example, it is on the Youth Government Council that we often touch on traineeships, then housing issues, we touch on a number of challenges in specific areas, such as agriculture, the development of young farmers and so on. Therefore, I may also invite you to look at all the records, conclusions and activities that have been done during this period, at least since I have led this world. At the same time, every year, the most important call for youth work, in this period of €200,000, is precisely so that young people can become more active and, in particular, more responsible and participate at different levels, than at local levels. However, as each year's consultation, we have now had two in the past period, but it is important to link local and national levels more effectively. In terms of national level alone, we cannot guarantee as much participation and activation as if we know how to link it well with activities at local level, as we have also seen in the last consultation that the Government carried out in Goriška. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u55	Mr. Andrej Chuš, you have the floor to request an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u56	Thank you so much for saying that. Madam Minister, I quite agree with you when we talk about the situation of young people in society, how important this is. I say that this is not an ideological theme, but it is a key theme for the future of our country, that is, our Slovenia. I myself, in December last year and January this year through social networks, urged young people across Slovenia to write to me themselves about what was bothering them in Slovenia, what they wanted to improve and to listen to their initiatives. In this context, I have met several representatives of youth organisations. I have also received countless letters and initiatives in my e-mail, especially criticism of what is going on in the country. On this basis, I have also drawn up five concrete legislative proposals that I have put into the legislative process, as well as one proposal for a recommendation, especially this recommendation, which we will vote on Friday afternoon to finally include a youth representative in the Economic and Social Council. I would like to recall that at the end of 2014, the representatives of the opposition and the coalition on the parent's working body agreed to include a youth representative in the Economic and Social Council, but unfortunately nothing has been done since then. But with this recommendation I myself wanted to give an incentive to politics, not only to Parliament, but also to the government, to finally do what they did. Young people do not want any privileges with this, but they do, but I think we all agree, they deserve above all equality. But what happened to your mother's working body last week? The SMC, SD and Desus groups sat, sat, quietly and then rejected this proposal. So I'm also wondering if maybe you know why this proposal was rejected in the first place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u57	Minister, Dr. Maja Makovec Brenčič, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u58	Thank you, Chairman. The fact is that it is right that we have the voice of young people everywhere. However, we know that even in the past it has not been possible to activate this voice within the operation of the ESS assembly. It is also true that, of course, young people are also present through other stakeholders in the ESS meeting itself. What I can say on my own as Minister is that we are in fact very active in cooperation at the Council of the Republic of Slovenia and we include all ministries, which I think is also the right thing to do. Since dialogue is the only way, not only of social dialogue in general, but also of professional dialogue, and particularly of focused dialogue with young people in the areas most affected, is one that can also be most effective. That is why I have already said why and how we are doing every policy. I'm talking about sectoral policy in particular. Of course, it is difficult for only one ministry to address the answers. They need to be addressed in full. Many times, though, it is also a matter of intertwining areas. Take, too, the example of the law on public interest in the youth sector, which we have because of procedures and which we are changing, which addresses a number of areas where young people are already present in their vote. However, they are also present where they are still able to activate their voice in particular in terms of the development of new policies. In particular, from the point of view of your question, there are different ways and opportunities for young people. But it is right to hear them especially in the part where we can contribute not only by voice but also by means of activities. This is probably the answer that should also be addressed to the ESS.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u59	Mr Andrej Chuš, you have the floor to request a debate at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u60	Thank you. I agree with you that this is not the exclusive competence of your ministry, of course I agree. On the contrary, I even think that if you had made that decision, you would have supported this decision. Of course, there is a majority in this government of a different opinion that needs to be respected. But I, too, predict that as, unfortunately, an unrelated or independent Member, I will take advantage of all the opportunities I have to accept this recommendation and invest it every month until it is accepted. At the beginning, if I was alone and a few fellow Members, I am sure that there will be maybe 50 young people at the next board meeting, and then you will hear what is going on. Of course, it is a Slovenian policy, we are all for young people at a girls' level, we will all help them, but when action is needed, we are all sitting more, more. Something's gonna have to be changed. On the other hand, the fact that we do not have a youth representative in the Economic and Social Council is in my opinion that the Economic and Social Council is not a representative body today because the Economic and Social Council creates policies for generations 40 plus. There is no member of the Economic and Social Council and an individual who would open up problems and propose solutions to people aged 18 to 40. And because of this, unfortunately, the policy that has been going on for the past few years since nothing is done for young people to be over-indebted leads to an intergenerational conflict. Unfortunately, it will happen sooner or later if it continues. Not only has the Economic and Social Council not listened to young people, it has been banned twice in the past, even in the last year, to representatives of youth organisations, namely the Slovenian Youth Council and the Slovenian Student Organisation, or when the White Paper on Pension Reform has been discussed, which should also be very important to open up problems or to address long-term pension stability for young generations. Both trade unions and employers and government members of this committee have somehow agreed that representatives of youth organisations will be prevented from participating in their opinions and hearing what they hear. I therefore propose that we hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting, not only from the point of view of some criticism of the current situation, but in particular the search for solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u61	Colleagues and colleagues, we are moving on to the first round of questions of Members and Members. The first is Mr Jan Mahnic, who will raise the question of the question to the Minister of Defence, Mrs Andreja Katič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! Last week, the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Borut Pahor, who is also the commander of the defence forces, including the Slovenian Army, said that the Slovenian Army is not capable of fighting that it lacks the capacity to evaluate. In Article 37 of the Defence Act, we have clearly written the tasks of the Slovenian Armed Forces. For me personally, the most important of them is the carrying out of an armed struggle in the event of an armed attack on Slovenia. We have an army that is incapable of doing so, and we have a minister who has been a minister or will soon be in this position for two years, under her leadership, this is the second inadequate assessment of the Slovenian Army, and in these two years she has done nothing. I would not say that Members and Members of the opposition as well as the coalition would not point out this problem, not only monthly, but also weekly, many times in the last two years. And nothing's changed. The Minister ignores all the well-intentioned initiatives that come from the National Assembly, notably by the Slovenian Democratic Party, which has called a meeting of the Defence Committee on many occasions, also through questions sent, agenda items at the plenary session of the National Assembly and, last but not least, through concrete proposals, how to improve the situation. Of course, we have not been heard, the Minister, her Government, especially the Minister of Finance, clearly denies everything that comes from the Slovenian Democratic Party. Last year, we said, if you do not follow some of the recommendations, some of the proposals, if you do nothing, this year or this year's evaluation for last year will again be insufficient. It also happened that last year another year was spent on reforms and some progress that would lead the Slovenian Army among the armed forces, which is of course the primary purpose of the military. Education, including international operations and missions, including natural and other disasters, but the primary task of the military is to defend the constitutional elements of the country. And we don't have that kind of army. Madam Minister, I'm only interested in two things: What will you do this year to make the evaluation better next year? In the event that the next year the evaluation will not be better, although it is likely to come at the time of the elections if they are regular: When do you plan to take personal responsibility, especially political responsibility for today's situation in the Slovenian Army?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u63	Ms Andrej Katič, Minister for Defence, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u64	Dear Vice-President, honourable Member, Members and Members of Parliament, fellow Ministers! Thank you for that question. In view of the fact that last week the Defence Committee has dealt in more detail with the report on the readiness of the Slovenian Armed Forces, I will, however, present specific data once again. The required readiness of the Slovenian Armed Forces in 2016 was at a level that enabled the successful and effective performance of much of the peace-keeping tasks, while the necessary readiness does not allow all statutory tasks in crisis situations, direct war or war. The report was prepared independently by the General Staff of the Slovenian Army. It is worth noting, however, that this is a very difficult methodology introduced in 2012 and since 2012 the report on the readiness of the Slovenian Army is in fact exactly the same. What is the capacity to carry out the tasks of the Slovenian Army, in fact, this table tells us all. We have implemented a number of measures in the past year, both in 2016 and this year. Well, let me just say certain things. Also on the basis of the strategic review of defence, which was carried out very well in a very short time and on the basis of which the Government has also adopted certain conclusions, also by providing the Slovenian Army with an additional 20 to 30 million each year. It's 20 to 30, then it's 60, 120 and so on. The implementation of the Slovenian Armed Forces financial plan was 263 million in 2015, 302 million in 2016 or 39 million more than in the previous year. And when you said that we were ignoring all the comments made by the Social Democratic Party, you personally or what was discussed on the Committee, I recall that, in addition to the National Guard, this was actually the only proposal. So, we've allocated more resources. If we subtract from these funds what was paid due to the migrant crisis, the reality in 2016 was higher by 24.3 million and it is an increase of 8%. From that financial plan, the realisation of investment expenditure and maintenance in 2015 was 22 million, in 2016 28 million. We increased the funds by 34% to maintain weapons, military equipment and other assets. We have also taken a number of measures in the human resources area, where we have seen an increase of 0.3, but we are very dissatisfied with this, but we have already taken several steps more than in recent years. This year, for example, in the field of voluntary service of military service, we will allow for more locations on several dates and also raise the level of remuneration. We also continue to take action in the area of salary raises. In the context of the negotiations for the elimination of salary abnormalities in the public sector, the Regulation amending the Regulation on the establishment of formational cities and, as a consequence, wages and the recast of basic legislation is also being coordinated. I believe you will personally say that this is not enough, but we are aware of the problem and are solving it in our own hands. I would ask then, because the biggest delay in the readiness of the Slovenian Army is the fulfilment of international ties, according to the modernisation of the Slovenian Army, in 2012 the Patria Treaty was terminated, we should get 135 pieces of different configurations, from 2009 to 2011 30 pieces were purchased, saying 105 with significantly greater firepower, but unfortunately we did not get the contract because at the time of your government was broken. About my political responsibility. The facts state that we have stopped the trend of falling financial expenditure for defence expenditure, that we have increased these funds, which is also recognised to us by NATO, that we are also seeking to regulate defence legislation that has not been adopted for many years, and I believe that Parliament will then be shown how much support individual Members have been given. We are aware that it is impossible to make up for all the deficit in a relatively short time. The honourable Member, I am sitting in the government and looking at all areas, so I see that all areas of all ministries are in trouble and I will continue to strive for transparency of procedures, for efficient spending and, above all, for the economic use of all resources. This also makes it impossible to carry out all the procedures in such a short time, but at the same time we are also preparing all the activities that I have presented so that we can launch modernisation in the coming period. Thanks for once.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u65	Mr Jan Mahnic, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u66	Thank you, Vice President. First of all, what you told us was that in 2012 the contract for the supply of patriots was terminated. Do you know why, Madam Minister, she was interrupted? Because of the party of Social Democrats that you belong to. Let me explain. We all know what happened to Patrio. The contract was terminated because of the anti-corruption clause. What happened to corruption in Patrio's case, we all know. This was some fictional story for the 2008 parliamentary elections that your party to the Social Democrats could then defeat the Slovenian Democratic Party and take over the government. Those of you who are responsible for coming to the government at that time are guilty of having to break up the treaty with Patrio that you prevented the Slovenian Democratic Party and sent President Janez Janša to prison with some fictitious mounted process. Then the Constitutional Court, when he was in prison for more than six months, found him innocent. So much for patriots. This affair is responsible for Slovenia’s setback and that the Slovenian army has also returned because of its damage. I'm worried when you said we didn't have a good grade because of the methodology. It is said that nothing will change in the Slovenian Army, you will only change the assessment methodology and adjust it to bring such a situation like this to a good level next year. As for the additional €39 million, we know how it went. And if we let it go as much as it did most of the money, which last year was more than you said about wages and other matters in the migrant crisis, there are personal vehicles in here that do not contribute to the increased fighting power of the Slovenian Army. Here are the international memberships you brought from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the Ministry of Defence. Here is the personal equipment and the uniforms, which is shameful that the Slovenian Army has not received it before. This promotion, this is what I call creative accounting. Just tell me: How are you going to make a two-millimeter battalion battle group with 20 million more euros?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u67	Madam Secretary, please. You have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u68	Thank you, Mr Vice President. Surely our view of Patricia and who has done something, where there has been some corruption, how a body has carried out its task will be completely opposed. We both have the right to do that. But the fact is, since the contract was terminated, the Slovenian Army did not achieve modernisation as it should. Moreover, there has been almost no purchases since 2010, 2011. This government is the first government to stop the decline in funds earmarked for the Slovenian Army. We have also rectified certain cases in the area of wages, which have also been relatively strictly introduced in the Slovenian Army in the past due to the economic crisis. As I said, we've stopped the downward trend, we've earmarked more funds. Even those obligations, even if you listed them like that, they were paid. Yeah, it's a good thing they're paying. They were for international obligations, including those previously in the Ministry of Defence or the Slovenian Army, not only for the part transferred from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. However, it is the obligations of the Republic of Slovenia as such. We have a clear view of how to proceed. At the same time as the strategic review of defence and legislative reform, negotiations are also under way for the objectives of capacity. We managed to negotiate with Nate in such a way that the construction of two middle battalion battle groups in 2022 and 2025 is postponed. Of course, our ambition was greater as far as funding is concerned, but that was the deal in the government. But we are certainly also looking for alternative equipment routes, intergovernmental agreements, rental of older equipment, purchase of older equipment. Of course everything's in line with Nate's standards. This calculation, which was made in public, that the Slovenian Armed Forces needed to build two medium-sized battalion fighting groups of a billion 200 000 in the coming period, provided that we did not take into account anything we already have and that it would obtain top equipment, all the latest that could be obtained on the market. So I believe that when the final value is produced, it will be significantly smaller. In the end, I would add to what I said myself, besides equipment, the personnel are certainly important. It is precisely with the recast of legislation and also with the amendment of the Regulation on the establishment of information cities that we intend to do so, that was the coalition commitment when we negotiated with the police, so that comparable solutions could also be used for comparable professions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u69	Mr Mahnic would like to make a proposal to hold a debate at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u70	Yes, Vice President, I propose exactly what you have already mentioned. I didn't mean to, but now I'm being encouraged by the minister. I think we have a debate to discuss. The secretary here says she has a clear view of how to proceed. Do you know what this clear view is like? One speaks in the National Assembly, and the other speaks in the Controversy of Odessa. She said there would be no improvement in the situation for a few years. This is your clear view forward, on the one hand, and on the other hand, she said, in 2022 will be the first battalion fighting group, in 2025 the second. Give me, Members and Members, we all have so much math to say. The two medium-sized battalion fighting groups cost around €200 billion, while at the same time the government has concluded that it will spend 20 to 30 million more for the Slovenian Army each year. Can we get by 2025 by such an increase to a billion 200? We can't. And the other thing is, proof that the secretary obviously doesn't read what she writes before she goes to Reflections. Here speaks the first battalion fighting group 2022, the second 2025, at the Odessa said that, but now I don't know whether 2030 or 2032, but not until then all the capacities will be in place to the extent they should be. So much for this view forward that you have Social Democrats, who run the Ministry of Defence or if you want the wider government of the Republic of Slovenia. You've done some strategic defence review, and then some kind of execution in some documents, resolutions that we know of, that with such a policy and with such financial resources as we are investing now, they will never be realized, and it wasn't our fault, and it wasn't our fault if we just look at the patriarchs where we actually wanted to have automatic mortars, 30-millimeter cannons, and then there was some brigade who was also in the game for Chief of Staff, decided that enough to have only a 12.7m-millimeter machine gun on the floor. So much for fighting power. 12.7 millimeters will never penetrate you or a marder, let alone any other armored men other armies have. I think that we must continue to have this view of the debate in this National Assembly, so that, President, I propose that we vote on this in the context of the votes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u71	As you said, in the framework of the vote, we will decide on Friday, 24 March. We continue with Mr Miho Kordiš, who will ask the question of the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič. Please, Mr. Kordish, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, chairman. Primary education is compulsory and financed by public funds, so Article 57 of the Slovenian Constitution. However, in December 2014, the Constitutional Court interpreted this provision somewhat in its own way when it stated that 85 % of private school funding was not sufficient to give more money to them and that the decision was taken by a minimum difference, by a minimum vote of 5 to 4, contrary to its previous decisions. And this decision is also socially unacceptable. Three months later, in February 2015, we responded to the United Left, SD and Desus' parliamentary groups, demanding that the Constitution be amended, that public education be separated from private education and that public finances be allocated only to public education. Two years later, the Ministry came to terms with its proposal to finance 100 % of the basic private school programmes, i.e. the Constitutional Court's decision, plus 85% of the funding of the extended programmes. With this, the ministry would do more than the Constitutional Court asks of it, and consequently more money would be spent on private education than it is now. Clearly, more money from a school bag for private schools means that the same school bag makes less money for public schools. This proposal from the Ministry would further increase the absorption of public money for the benefit of the private sector. Therefore, Madam Minister, I would like to ask you: First time. What is your position on financing private primary school programmes, both public and others? Another time. What is your position on the proposal to amend the Constitution that we tabled in the National Assembly? Third time. On what basis did you determine the 85% co-financing share for the implementation of other educational programmes, i.e. for those extensions in private primary schools? Fourth time. How much higher would the cost of co-financing of private primary schools, if hypothetically the proposed model in the ZOFVI novel were used in the school year 2016/2017? Fifth. What percentage of co-financing of other educational programmes should be set out in Article 86 of the novel proposal in order to avoid an increase in private school funding? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u73	Minister Maja Makovec Brenčič has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u74	Thank you, Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Ambassador Miha Kordish! First of all, in terms of constitutional changes, the ministry cannot be defined either because it is not in charge. The Constitutional Commission has been defined and, from the point of view of the initiative of Members, the relevant procedures which have been put in place. However, it is the task of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport not only to examine, but also to include in the legislative process a decision made by the Constitutional Court in 2014 on the financing of public or private schools. In doing so, we are actually bound by the Constitutional Court's decision, because the issues that were raised in this regard are of course not only questions of the moment – today or in 2014, but of the whole period in which private education has already been financed and financed in accordance with the applicable laws and the implementation of private education in Slovenia. In particular, I should like to draw attention to the provisions of 1996 which granted certain rights. And these rights are still being exercised today. The proposal presented at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport not only went in the direction of the financing and enforcement of the constitutional decision, but, above all, the moment we have in society can be said, and the wider life, especially in the global context, has also been seen in terms of resolving both the recognition of public validity, the monitoring of quality and the financing. We have created the novel more complex, as we have already presented in the National Assembly and as we have already presented in the Government. Why is that important? It is important that we know that we are following the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia with a novelty, that we also follow the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and in particular the Convention on the Rights of the Child in the Republic of Slovenia, by which we guarantee accessibility, the quality of public primary education, namely inclusion, universal access to public primary education, which I stress repeatedly that we will understand, however, that the key pillar is the one for which we are all responsible, and in particular this must be of quality. But it is also right in all processes that we allow selectivity, wealth, as we call it, as well as the diversity and programme diversity of school space, which is not an empty space today, but an already active space, because schools already live, which also contain these different approaches to education. In addition, these schools have shown that they carry out this quality and in line with the established standards and objectives. As far as your question is concerned in terms of both the application and understanding of the situation of private schools, I stress that we are therefore not in an empty space, that these schools operate, and that they also have recognised so-called state-of-the-art programmes and that this is also addressed by the novel ZOFVI, which wants to make it even clearer what this means and, above all, what this means in terms of quality assurance for both public and private education. With regard to the issue that you have raised at the end, on what basis did we establish the proposed amendment to the 85 % co-financing rate, I would first like to clarify that the amendment to Article 86 of the ZOFVI provides that the private school implementing the programme of the primary school programme which acquires public validity provides 100 % of the resources for the implementation of the compulsory part of the State, we are talking about compulsory work. This part of 85% comes from the rights already acquired in 1996, when it was in that way, i.e. from the point of view of the bill-maker and also of this Parliament, 85% of the funding already acquired, meaning 100 plus 85 actually rounded solutions also under the 2014 Constitutional Decision. Your question from the point of view of resources: at the annual level, we are talking about primary schools, with some more than €300,000, and more specifically €335 thousand 660.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u75	Mr. Miha Kordish, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, chairman. Look, every euro for private schools is taken from a financial bag for public education, so I'm going to repeat some of my questions, starting with: What is your position on financing private primary school programmes, both public and others? That's my first question. What is your position on the proposal to amend the Constitution that we have tabled in the National Assembly? That's my second question. It is true that this issue is not the full discretion of the Ministry of Education, but it is a legitimate political issue that concerns the basic dilemmas of the organisation of our education. You can easily define yourself as a minister, and this clearly, not legalistically, so politically, your political position on these issues. Furthermore, as regards the 85 % co-financing rate for the implementation of other educational programmes, there is no way that the decision of the Constitutional Court of December 2014 follows, nor does it follow from the previous regulation. The previous arrangement provided for 85 % of the funding of the overall private school programme. Here we are talking about 100% funding of the basic programme plus 85% funding of the extended programme. You said you'd give 335 thousand euros for private schools extra. I'm so curious. What percentage of co-financing under the category of other educational programmes should be set out in Article 86 of the novel proposal in order not to increase the amount of private schools? As I understand it, this figure will increase by EUR 300,000, for which public schools are underprivileged or increased.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u77	Madam Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u78	First of all, let me explain that the new ZOFVI has started and also proposed a solution to the understanding of what it means to become a public authority, what concessions mean and what the actual public programme already in place in public schools means. Why is that necessary? It is also necessary to understand the relationship resolution and at the same time the quality elements required both at the level of public schools or public schools and the acquisition of the public authority of private schools. Why is this area so important? I stress that we all support quality, inclusive and quality objectives of a committed public education. At the same time, however, as a country, we must also allow private schools to be established. In a way, it is the domain of this congregation and the relevant laws by which we can do so. As a ministry, we have therefore not only examined the constitutional decision, but also committed ourselves in particular to responding to the more complex elements that need to be regulated precisely because of the future understanding not only of public-private relations in terms of funding, but also of quality assurance and the establishment of possible new schools in the future. Why am I stressing this? Because this is something that not only the neighbouring countries have faced, but also the wider Europe and the world. That's why it's right for us to address it not only professionally, but, as you said earlier, politicalally. That is why the novels are coming to the government and at the same time to the National Assembly. That is why we have separated the understanding of the constitutional decision, i.e. 100% financing not the basic but mandatory programme. We are talking about a mandatory and extended programme. Both of them have so far been funded at 85%. The mandatory programme under the Constitutional Decision is to be financed 100 %, the difference is, of course, in the extended programme. When I have defined the value of the funds at the annual level, this is also due to the delimitation of mandatory and extended compared to the previous 85 % funding, it does not change significantly because it is the relationship between the work carried out in the core, that is, the first, mandatory package and the extended set. That is why we cannot say that we do not know how we have increased these values, even at the time of the recalculation of the proposed novel, but it is certainly right to separate the compulsory and widespread part. And that's what the novel's all about. This has not been the case so far, as this has not been the case with the constitutional decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u79	Mr Miha Kordish, you have the floor for a procedural request to hold a debate on this subject at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u80	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. We are experiencing changes in legislation on how our primary school education will be financed, how much money will be spent on public schools, on the service of public interest, and how much money will be spent on private schools. Here is the first shot, if we say so, launched by the Constitutional Court with its decision in 2014. The current government and the current Ministry of Education are also stepping up. It foresees not only 100 % of the funding of the basic private school programme, the compulsory primary school programme, but also 85 % of the funding of the extended programme. This means raising public funds to go to private schools. We're opposed to this in the United Left. Given that we, together with the Social Democrats and Desus, tabled a proposal to amend the Slovenian Constitution in February 2015, we are also not alone in this position and see this as the way forward. All right, if the Constitutional Court has already decided that it wishes to wear yellow ties in any way and to defend private interests in education, then we can simply resolve this decision by clearly distinguishing public from private and public money in our Constitution only for public schools, which is only prudent and rational. The Ministry has decided that it will proceed in the opposite direction to give more money to private schools, even though they themselves are negligently claiming that these funds will not be raised, but from the laity of the Member State's calculation, these funds will be raised as percentages are accounted for differently. After all, it would be good to find out how to write, though with an amendment, although as a move to put out fire, Article 86 of the novel proposal, so that the amount of private school funding would not increase. Once again, every euro in private schools is draining from a bag of public money that goes to public schools in the interest of everyone. I therefore propose a discussion on the subject of the Minister's reply, which also covers the subject of changing the Constitution to the benefit of public education and public education financing in its entirety, but of course private education, which should be without public finances. If we have to have a private education in any way, then let it be financed and found alone.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u81	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Friday, 24 March, in the framework of the votes. Mr Igor Zorčič will ask the question to the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petr Gasperšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u82	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Colleagues, colleagues, distinguished minister! Cycling is one of the healthier forms of transport, it is not just transport, it is also some kind of recreation. If I focus only on transport on bicycles as a means of transport, it also belongs to so-called sustainable mobility. It is mobility that does not burden the environment with any emissions. As I mentioned earlier, it is also mobility, which somehow contributes to our health. The trend in all developed countries, as well as in less developed countries, is to encourage cycling at all levels, to ensure the highest possible level of safety of bikers and to ensure that good cycling infrastructure is provided. In practice, cycling is still largely mixed with other modes of transport. In the case of traffic accidents, we are still witnessing serious bodily injuries, and trends in this area are not such that we can put gloves in the drawer in any way, so it is also necessary to work again and again in the field of safety of bikers. In Europe, the concept of cycling is known. It applies mainly to the form of transport, cycling as a form of transport. Western European cities have a very well-designed strategy for promoting cycling as well as countries. Given that we also have a trend in increasing the number of bikers, it is difficult to determine whether there are more who use cycling for recreational purposes or for driving to work, but there is this trend that we need to promote, I am interested in: How does the Ministry approach this? What is the strategy for developing cycling infrastructure in the future? How do existing cycling links become part of a modern, user-friendly cycling network? The Ministry’s website shows that a seminar is scheduled for April on the topic of planning for pedestrians and cyclists, and I am also interested in: What is the purpose of this seminar, or where does the ministry end up in the direction of friendly cycling in the Republic of Slovenia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u83	Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u84	Thank you, Chairman for your word. Thank also Member Igor Zorčič for the question raised and, of course, a nice greeting to all Members and Members! I would start by setting up a transport development strategy in the Republic of Slovenia, adopted by the Government in 2015, measures to develop sustainable mobility together with measures to develop railway infrastructure among the priority transport development measures. This also defines sustainable mobility based on the four pillars of transport development, namely on the development of pedestrian transport, on the development of cycling, on the development of public passenger transport and on the development of transport using alternative ones, that is environmentally friendly energy. Sustainable mobility measures also provide €21 million for urban municipalities in this financial perspective under integrated territorial investment measures and €28 million for actions in the field of infrastructure for pedestrians, cyclists, public transport stations and the "park and drive" system. As a first step, the Ministry of Infrastructure has already launched a call for the co-financing of municipal integrated transport strategies, according to which 62 municipalities produce integrated transport strategies that give an important part of the emphasis to cycling. Integrated transport strategies are an important shift towards regulating cycling infrastructure in settlements where we want to encourage day-to-day cycling, with which we can replace a large part of, above all, short driving by car. According to the survey, which was designed to update the transport model data, in Slovenia, about a quarter of the way through a personal car is done on a relationship that is less than 4 km. The Ministry of Infrastructure takes account of the fact that cyclists are among the most vulnerable actors in transport. The number of bikers using bicycles, either for recreation or, as you yourself have already said, for daily journeys to work, to school and after purchases, is increasing, and the Ministry of Infrastructure as one of the reasons for stagnation in the field of road safety among bikers is also attributable to an increasing number of bikers in traffic. The Ministry is aware of this challenge of increasing the number of bikers on transport infrastructure, and we are paying particular attention to the area, both in terms of the preparation of the legal framework and the provision of resources, to finance the construction of cycling infrastructure. The priority is to improve the situation of cycling mainly in cities and on the main state cycling links. In phase one, this is how we prepare professional starting points for integrated strategies. However, the Ministry of Sustainable Mobility and Transport Policy is preparing guidelines for the planning of cyclists and pedestrian-friendly infrastructure. We will present these guidelines to designers and local communities at the seminar we are planning in April, which you have also seen on our website. Furthermore, the Faculty of Construction and Geodesy with the partner of the IPOP for the Ministry of Economy, Development and Technology implements the so-called "target development project" entitled Making a model of the relationship of the whole of Slovenia to cycling routes, the result of which will also be a comprehensive proposal of state cycling links and their categorisation. As part of the planning of the so-called remote state cycling links, it is envisaged that they will be managed in such a way that bikers will be comfortable, attractive and that we will connect larger places and tourist centres and ensure that the rest of the craft network is connected. The project is expected to be completed in the second half of this year. Given the fact that the rest of what I want to say is running out of time, I suggest that I tell you more about these plans in the event of your request to supplement the issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u85	Igor Zorčič, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. I'm actually interested in some concrete solutions. In the media, it was read about the cycling link between Ratec and Obrež. Mr Minister, please answer the question: What concrete solutions will we also feel on the ground? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u87	Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u88	Thank you very much! That's right. Last year, our activity was quite resounding when last autumn we marked the so-called D2 State Cycling Link from Ratec to Ljubljana. This link connects larger municipal and tourist centres along less roads and thus leads remote bikers on safer routes and beyond tourist attractions. In fact, we have also encouraged quite a number of activities across the municipalities themselves, which were involved in this project, to now plan local cycling links that link to this remote connection. In 2017, we plan to mark, in cooperation with the Infrastructure Directorate and the Infrastructure Development Society, two more routes from Ljubljana to the Obrežje, in cooperation with the Commission established by the Ministry for the establishment of this single system for the labelling of remote and other cycling links. One branch will go down the Sava Valley and the other one will go down the Krka Valley. Furthermore, we intend to continue this project at the Ministry and mark other remote cycling links, which are also foreseen by the previously mentioned model of the connection of the whole of Slovenia, which we intend to establish in Prekmurje and also in the coastal region. In this way, we will also allow the Infrastructure Directorate within these sections to provide the necessary systemic resources, system funding resources for the regulation of individual bicycle sections. I may also point out that, in 2017, we will provide €7.7 million for the regulation of this cycling infrastructure within urban areas within the framework of these integrated transport strategies and 11 municipalities will be additionally eligible for funding for the construction of cycling infrastructure under an integrated territorial investment mechanism of €21 million. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u89	Mag. Andrej Šircelj will ask the question of the Foreign Minister, Mr Karl Erjavac.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister! Europe is in a situation it has not yet been in. The first thing to mention here is that today we have not only countries that want to join the European Union, but also one country has decided to leave this community. We have a completely different process here now. This means that the situation of the other countries also depends on it. In addition, we have an uneven solution to migration problems or migration in Europe; on the other hand, we have Turkey's influence on European migration policy, especially on the latest news, when President Erdogan predicts a new wave of migrants from Turkey. According to some information, there's supposed to be 15,000 a month. This exacerbation of these policies is certainly not good for the European Union. This raises a question, the first question on which the European Union, or their officials, or Juncker, has not answered where we really are, where Europe is. On the other hand, Juncker gave five variants or five scenarios where Europe can go. But here's the basic question, for the first time, where we are and, for the second time, where we can be in a few months. These five scenarios are to be discussed in Europe by June 2019. Until then, such a European Union may no longer be. And then it'll be too late for us to decide which scenario we're supposed to go in. That's why, of course, I'm also interested in this: What is Slovenia's strategy if Europe is no longer in 2017? This is practically out of the question, and on the other hand, we have a tendency, for example in France, to predict a frixit or predict whether France would still be a member of the European Union or not. This, of course, has to do with the elections. On the other hand, we have elections in Germany. This is the strongest country and it is likely that the future of the European Union will depend on it. That's why I want to know: What is Slovenia's strategy, not only in the light of these five Juncker scenarios, but also the strategy, if it simply happens that Europe, such as it is, will no longer be?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u91	Mr Karl Erjavec, Minister for Foreign Affairs, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u92	Thank you so much for asking. Say good-bye to everyone again! I must say that these very days, in five days we will celebrate the 60 years of the Treaty of Rome, on which the European Union is also founded. I am sure that in 2017 we will continue to have the European Union. You are simply setting one of the possible thesis that in 2017 the European Union may gradually begin to disappear, particularly due to the various events that await us in the coming months. I must say, as Dutch Prime Minister Rutte said, the Netherlands has moved forward in the quarterfinals. We know that there has been a struggle in the parliamentary elections between the populist line and the line that advocates closer integration into the European Union. I think that was also an important signal. The next elections, which will be the most important test for the European Union in 2017, are the elections in France. We know that Le Penov is the leader of public opinion polls there, but there is a second round to be expected, and in the second round, her chances of winning are quite small or almost none. She, of course, predicts that if she becomes President of France, she will also initiate all procedures for the implementation of the referendum on France's exit from the European Union. Here I agree with you, if this really happened to France leaving the European Union, then it would be difficult to talk about the European Union being able to remain a connected, strong and important geostrategic player. There will be elections in Germany in the autumn, but we do not expect a radical change to take place in terms of attitude towards the European Union, because there is a major battle for victory between the two biggest parties, which are now quite equal, and it is not expected that any populist party who might even consider a referendum on Germany's exit from the European Union could win there. It is true, however, that the various challenges faced by the European Union are no matter how the elections end in the individual Member States of the European Union, which I am sure will not trigger the collapse of the European Union, but certain dilemmas, certain questions to be answered. You yourself have said that neither Jean-Claude Juncker has offered a comprehensive answer, nor has the European Commission, but it is true that we are all dealing with this issue. You know that the joint reflection of the EU, the 27, started in Bratislava on the informal European Council under the presidency of Slovakia, where they focused their attention in particular on three extremely important sets. One is migration and external borders. We know that due to migration and lack of control at the external borders of the European Union, we are witnessing certain internal problems. Just the fact that some countries are strengthening internal border controls, we have the case of Slovenia-Austria, Austria-Germany, the German-Scandian countries, is a loosening of one of the principles which is the basis for the European Union. This is the principle of free movement of people, services and work. Then there's internal and external security. Obviously, the European Union is not able to provide strong external security here at this time, because if it were, what happened to us would not be happening to us, it is a Western Balkan way. But let us not forget the Mediterranean route that is still in operation. There are thousands of people coming there, depending on the situation at sea, depending on the situation in Libya and so on. And the third issue on the agenda of this debate of EU-27 leaders is economic and social development and youth. If I have time, I'll keep going.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u93	Mag. Andrej Shircelj, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Dear Minister! With regard to the situation, we agree in many ways on the reasons, the reasons, the reasons for such a situation. I want the European Union to exist for a long time, and I want it to be strengthened as well. I, too, think that Slovenia is the only possible and best solution. However, you yourself said, elections in France, if Le Pen wins, migration problems, security policy, uneven action and so on. That is why I ask that Slovenia should work and be in the European Union for centuries to come. However, we must also be prepared to see that such a European Union or even the European Union, because of all these elements that you have cited, which I am referring to, will no longer be. We have to be ready for this. That's why I'm asking you: What is Slovenia's strategy in all areas? Does the Government have a strategy for Slovenia if this happens if the French elections show that the French will go to a referendum on Europe and vote to leave the European Union? Does Slovenia have a strategy in economic, social, legal, military, migration, in short, if that happens? Let us work as if this will not happen for another thousand years, but let us also be prepared for this scenario. That's why I'm interested.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u95	Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u96	Thank you for that additional question. I must say that, at this point, if the European Union, for example, falls apart tomorrow and is gone, there is no such strategy. It can't be. Because we believe in the European Union. We believe that in 2017 and when we celebrate the new year 2018, the European Union will remain. That is why we have prepared different scenarios, assuming that the European Union remains and that it needs to be strengthened. You know that Angela Merkel, a German chancellor, spoke at Malta at an informal meeting of European Council leaders for the first time on Europe at two speeds. In this context, our scenario is quite clear, Slovenia has the euro, Slovenia has the Schengen, Slovenia has a healthy economy at the moment, it respects all the criteria, which is why I feel like you have to join this group of most connected countries. We're already out there, sort of, according to all these criteria. As for the other scenarios in the White Paper offered by Jean-Claude Juncker, I must say that this white book, and also the good sign, was that immediately after the adoption of this white book was here the next day in Slovenia Jean-Claude Juncker, I think this was March 2nd and 3rd, this white book is a good basis for all these discussions, but the white book does not foresee the collapse of the European Union. The EU's closest link is the link between focusing on the internal market. Of course, if we see things going towards the total collapse of the European Union, we will certainly draw up different scenarios, including what other countries will do, what Austria, Germany, Italy, the V4 countries will do. These are questions that will be asked when this actually happens. But to come up with a strategy now, on the basis of, I don't know, some unknowns, but I think, for the first time, that it would be too demanding work and that it is very difficult at this point, which is so unpredictable, to set some precise scenarios. However, if such a situation occurs, Slovenia will have to settle in some place. Here I see in particular this Central Europe, alpine, continental and also part of Mediterranean Europe here, given that we have Luka Koper.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u97	Mag. Andrej Shircelj, you have the floor to request a procedural motion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u98	Thank you very much. See, given the subject itself, even in the light of the debate, even in view of the current moment for Slovenia, I propose that this be discussed in the National Assembly. I think that the debate is necessary, no matter what side it actually comes from. For the first time because we have five Juncker scenarios on the table, and for the second time because we have such an international event, that the debate on Slovenia's strategy and whether Slovenia needs a specific strategy in the event of all these scenarios being met, even if, for example, France happens to be saying that the French and the French will say at the referendum that they want to leave the European Union, and what will then happen to the European Union, this debate really needs to be held. Dear Minister, you would say, look, we have no strategy because we believe in the European Union. Me, too. At the moment, however, this faith is not enough. To believe in something based on the information we have, based on what is actually happening around us, given that the Schengen does not work, given the threats from Turkey, according to the entire international environment – this belief in the European Union is, I will say, on the basis of May. For this reason, I think it will be for the benefit of Slovenia, for the benefit of citizens and citizens, in favour of knowing where to go, in favour of being prepared, in the National Assembly on this and also on these scenarios, the most black ones and also those who are brighter, where there is more sun, that the debate actually takes place.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u99	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Friday, 24. 3. 2017, in the framework of the votes. Mr Zvonko Lah will ask the question of the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Peter Gasperšić. Mr. Lah, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Members, Members of Parliament, Minister of Respect! Because of its geographical location, Slovenia is an important transit area within Europe, as it is crossed by two TEN-T corridors. Transit transport is a guest both on motorways and on railways as well as in Luka Koper. In the last two decades, Slovenia has built developed highway infrastructure and has done little to develop railway infrastructure. In 2015, the government adopted a strategy on the development of transport infrastructure, showing where we have weaknesses, advantages, a so-called SWOT analysis showing advantages, weaknesses, opportunities and threats. Such analysis is a key tool and a basis for the development of a transport infrastructure strategy. On this basis, implementation plans, financing arrangements and so on should probably be made. So the fifth and tenth corridors that cross in Slovenia or railway infrastructure do not meet the requirements of TEN-T, and much remains to be done. We have problems both Koper-Divača, Divača-Ljubljana, Vozlišče-Zalog pri Ljubljana, then Zidani Most-Pragersko regarding carrierability, then we have power supply 3 kilovolts, one-way current, we are the only ones around the neighbouring countries, which is a major problem for us. I am sure that we would spend it to get the railroad to a level like we have motorways, at least 10 billion euros that we don't have. One Divača-Koper project is being prepared, which has been under preparation for 21 years. We are now in a hurry to get European funds and start construction as soon as possible. However, one alternative project appeared significantly cheaper and better. Now I'm out of time.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u101	Minister, Dr. Peter Gaspersich, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u102	Thank you, Chairman for your word! Thank you also Member Zvonk Lah for asking the question! It is true that road infrastructure in the Republic of Slovenia, in particular motorway infrastructure, is significantly better developed than rail. In certain indicators in the field of motorway infrastructure, we are even falling into the very top of the European Union. This is by the number of km the highway per million inhabitants. However, rail infrastructure has not been so intensive in the past, but we must say that, in particular, in the field of nuclear networks within the European TEN-T network, some one billion euro has already been invested in the modernisation of this infrastructure in the past financial perspective 2007-2014. However, in the financial perspective 2014-2020, these intensive investments continue and, together with the second track project, about €2 billion is planned to invest, according to the European Union's own investments in the budget as well as in the European Union's co-investments. The objective of these investments is to ensure that the standards applicable to TEN-T networks are met. These are, in particular, train speed requirements, rail load capacity, train composition lengths, electricity, signalling equipment, ERTMS connections, GSM-R networks and so on. We are working intensively to meet these conditions for European nuclear networks by 2030 and that these lines, which are now in these networks, will in particular be the Mediterranean and so on, the Adriatic-Baltic corridor, this fifth, if we are talking about numbers, will be maintained in this nuclear network. In addition, we are committed to including the link between Jesenic and Obrežje, which is the tenth corridor, among the European networks, and in this way can also provide support through European funds. With regard to the Luk Koper project, or the second track between Kopro and Divac, which you mentioned and these alternatives, which we also discussed at the extraordinary meeting of the Infrastructure Committee, we have already said there that these are interesting technical ideas, ideas that would take a long time to put into practice, and we simply cannot, at this stage of the development of the second track project without some of the consequences that we would in fact entail. This, in particular, if the second track project were not to move forward, would mean inconceivable consequences for the development of both Luka Koper and all logistics. For we know that the existing route to which Luka, as a core European port, is linked to the European nuclear network, is thus on the edge of its capacity. We know that the current transhipment in Luka Koper has already exceeded 20 million tonnes and that, according to the plans we have, it is envisaged that this transhipment will go to 40 million tonnes and more, so we urgently need to increase these capacities. The second indent is provided for in all these strategic documents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u103	Mr. Bell Lah, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u104	See, Minister, in this SWOT analysis, I will only read opportunities: the development of new transport technologies, then the development of modern rail lines on TEN-T corridors through Slovenia. These are the opportunities. On the other hand, we have risks: the spillover of transit traffic flows to the parallel network through Italy, Austria, Hungary or Croatia due to the slow development of rail transport infrastructure, the increasing traffic congestion, the reduction of freight and passenger safety, the accelerated collapse of rail infrastructure due to increased transport burdens, the unclear organisational composition in the management and development of investments, the vague vision and strategy for the development and management of the rail network. This is the SWOT analysis adopted by this government in 2015. I went to look at this strategy and, in view of the conditions required by TEN-T, this project, which we have discussed last time, does not allow fixed trains, because it is necessary to get traffic on the railway from the highway. It would be almost imperative to make it possible here. Then we build a second track, we leave the old railroad as it is, it's not being taken into account. Or are we going to build the third track the same way, and then there's going to be about a billion more at this billion 400? I must say that this project was worth 600 million in 2010 and a billion 400 in 2015. Something similar happened to TER 6. There was a question at this board meeting where these professors, the doctors had been before, they only learned in 2015 that this would be a billion 400. Then they started working on it. If it was 600 million, it would be okay. If the project is 21 years old, is it working on a project – now we're going to go build it? You know how cars were. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Minister Gaszperšič, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u106	Thank you very much. What you mentioned from the SWOT analysis. So one thing is what we get if we do this project, and here are the benefits that are indisputable and not only in the territory of Slovenia, is the benefits that go far beyond the territory of the Republic of Slovenia into the entire icy space that is powered through these railway links and Luke Koper, which we need to take care of and ensure development. And of course, the danger is, if it doesn't happen, what would be the consequences. These are the facts that you correctly stated if we do not realize this project, what follows. The risks of diverting cargo to alternative corridors exist again if we do not update these links, we do not realize them. We're working on it intensely. To speak at this point when we are, in fact, just before we receive such European funds that we are granted a loan by European banks to agree on co-operation with the other countries, that we will now begin by examining some other alternatives that we know should start completely from the beginning, from placing in space, environmental assessments, design, obtaining all the certificates, in short, after some grave assessment, it may take at least 10 years and for so many years to reject all this project, I think that no responsible government can afford this at this stage of development. So I stress this again and I can only guarantee once again, the idea, the idea is also interesting to me as an engineer, but at this point we cannot hold back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u107	Bell Lah, you have the floor to request that the debate be held at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u108	I would take advantage of the business opportunity to hold a debate and I think it would be very useful, because if the resolution says what the situation is, what the conditions are, on the other hand, also the TEN-T network with regard to the underlying pressure, with regard to the inclination, with regard to the speed, the already half layman can see that this project, which has been presented, which is now in a hurry with it, is not enough to meet these conditions. In Slovenia it will be necessary to transfer freight traffic from the highway to the railways, at least a large majority of them, otherwise you are thinking about a six-lane around Ljubljana and elsewhere. How much is that gonna cost? And about time. The profession also says that for such projects with too much inclination, with too little profile, which is uneconomical if the train tunnel is not now available, that is to say trains on which trucks are loaded so that there is no European money for this. We'll see about that. However, an innovative project that meets all these conditions could be obtained. As far as placement is concerned. If we have now placed 15 years of motorways and railways, now to say that we will place 10 years in advance in the space, we will not, in 50 years, arrange these railway infrastructures to accommodate the space and the papers to meet these TEN-T conditions across Slovenia. We don't need money there, we need capable people, free will. Like one of the mayors said on a committee, those who make the decisions have to have the balls. Excuse me! And if he wants to, he can sit down and settle down for six months, and now we're saying we're going to be that second track for 10 years. Please! Half of them have to be driven there, and those who prepare it are able to put it up there in one year. The construction of this project is 3 to 4 years, which is now an alternative and 20 kilometres of tunnels 6 to 7 or 8 years. If we calculate, we save another 800 million dollars in investment. It's a pure calculation, and I think it's imperative to do something, not stubbornly insist on a project that's 20 years old.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u109	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Friday in the framework of the vote. We continue with Mr France Jurša, who will ask the question of the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities for Dr Anji Kopač Mrak. Here you go, Mr. Jursha.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u110	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, of course, and before that, say hello to all colleagues and colleagues in the hall! I quote: "For better intergenerational cooperation, we will also create an Office for Older Persons using the model of the Youth Office, focusing on the content that encourages intergenerational cooperation of generations. The Office will participate in the preparation of measures aimed at creating conditions for the functioning of the elderly, adapting to demographic change and ensuring active and healthy ageing, all in the spirit of mutual cooperation and understanding." Madam Minister, I have no doubt and I believe that you know this quote, which is contained in this government's coalition contract. That's why I want to know: Are you determined to realize in what way and when? At the last festival for the third life period in Ljubljana last September, you said that this would happen by the end of the year, that is, by the end of 2016, the National Council for Intergenerational Cooperation will be established. I am also aware that, in the final stage, there are acts that constitute a concept for a comprehensive strategy for a long-lived society, which the Government is expected to adopt in April of this year. Whether these documents provide for the establishment of such an authority, a world or a similar institution, which, as a stand-alone institution, could contribute to making an older population, which, by the way, is significantly larger than a generation of young people, which such a State authority already has and is adequately represented in society in relation to national policies. According to my assessment of the current demographic situation and future demographic movements, there is an urgent need for such an authority or a world to be established. So, Madam Secretary, I ask you to answer my questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u111	Minister Anja Kopač Dark, you have the floor for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u112	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Mr. Jurša, thank you for asking. Good greetings to all Members and Members of Parliament! Slovenia is one of those Member States of the European Union that have a high proportion of people over 65 years of age. This trend will continue to increase in the future, and in the coming years, according to Eurostat's demographic projections, the number of people over 80 would also increase. At the Ministry, we are aware that the provision of quality, active and healthy ageing in Slovenian society is also linked to the adaptation of existing social security systems, education, employment, space and environment, transport and the different role of older people in society. The well-functioning public systems and the adjustment of the whole society, which are governed by the agreement of all generations and through intergenerational cooperation, are, according to our assessment, crucial to the well-being of the entire population. In order to further highlight the need to effectively adapt the current demographic situation to the coordinated and coordinated functioning of the various sources, the current coalition in the coalition agreement envisaged the possibility of establishing an Office for Older Persons. At the beginning of the current government's mandate, the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities has set up a starting point for the establishment of such an office. It was initially found that there is currently no formal legal basis in any of the applicable rules or strategic documents. In order to establish such a basis, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should supplement the existing Regulation on bodies in the composition of ministries, which currently does not provide for the Office of Older Persons as one of the bodies operating within any of the ministries. Following the expiry of the mandate of the Council for the Solidarity Co-existence of Generations and Quality Ageing of the Population in Slovenia, which was established on the basis of the Strategy for the Protection of Older Persons by 2010, there is a gap in coordination between the work of various sources, local communities, the professional public and non-governmental organisations. The possible content of the work of the new Office was envisaged: cooperation in the preparation of regulations, strategic guidelines and other measures in the field of older persons, monitoring the situation of older people and the effects of action in the field of older people at different levels of political decision-making and organisation, cooperation with competent authorities, other authorities, local communities and other stakeholders in the field of older persons, providing financial support to specific programmes in the field of intergenerational cooperation and the protection of older persons not provided in other departments, monitoring and monitoring the implementation of strategic documents in the field of demography and long-term society, participating in the presentation of the country in the bodies of the European Union and of the Council of Europe and at international level, matters relating to intergenerational cooperation and older persons, cooperation with scientific and research institutions in the field of demography and ageing. In view of the broad range of tasks envisaged, it was envisaged that at the start of the Office at least six professional colleagues would be employed. Formally speaking, and we are probably all parties responsible for the implementation of the coalition arrangements, the Ministry has aligned itself with the DUS proposal, but no realisation has occurred in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and a state secretary has been appointed to the cabinet of the Prime Minister to coordinate and coordinate this area. This was realized in 2015. But it's true, it's 29. 3. or at the end of March, the first public presentation of the long-lived society strategy, which we will present as a country or will be a comprehensive response in this area, is intended to create a world that will coordinate this. However, the world you are referring to is not the same as the office for the elderly, which has a different role. In the coalition you read it to me, there was a proposal to set up an office. This agreement within the coalition has not been realized, but it is not only a matter of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, which covers a large part of the problems of the elderly, but a simplified view of the issue of the elderly only as a policy of the kind that leads us to where we are, then to address only one of the ministers and thinks that if in some way the Office can be ensured there that all the problems that are solved will, of course, be far from the truth. Despite the long-lived society and, above all, the strategy is to connect all the resources and to intertwine the various policies to address this challenge, as these are major demographic and paradigmical changes in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u113	Mr. Franz Jurša, you have the floor to request a complete reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u114	In this part, I would like to thank you for your answer. I must admit that I am not satisfied with the answer, especially because I expected a concrete answer. I am also aware of what you yourself have said that this is a simple and simple issue of the Government, a broader issue and not just for the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. I agree with you, so next time I ask this question again, I will address someone else, not just you, Madam Minister. Given that, in my question at the outset, I also mentioned the importance of setting up such an office, or then I also talked about the world further, I must say that this population is larger than the population, as I mentioned, than young people, and young people have this office. We in our client, who is primarily a senior population, should not, in any case, be satisfied that we have a secretary of state somewhere, but in the final stage I will say, it is just one person and so much and responsible question is probably for a person this little too much. Therefore, in the future, I expect that this part of the coalition agreement, if we have time to do so, will also come true.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u115	Mag. Branko Grims will ask the Minister of the Interior a question. The spring Györkös Žnidar, which today is excused absent. Here you go, Mr Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u116	Thank you for your word. In a number of judgments, the Constitutional Court has made it very clear that it is unacceptable to have a discretion or discretion in the decisions of individual institutions or bodies or officials, which subsequently result in punishment. That's why it's so much more difficult to understand the story, which I followed with a single response from the ministry, which, although in writing, when someone overtook the flag of the country of Kranjska, the police came, demanded that this be removed because it upsets his neighbour. Because he did not do so, he was later punished. Now, as far as I know, under any law or regulation of the positive law of the Republic of Slovenia it is not prohibited to hang the flag of the country of Kranjska. At the same time, I point to something worse, total double criteria, which then come out of such free judgment. In Slovenia, a lot of people are happily carrying around totalitarian symbols, such as even in this national assembly. It is usually a symbol that we know very well in Gorenjska, because it was on planes that threw cluster bombs at Brnik airport, because it was in the form of a red star, you can see what it was all about, on the JLA tank, from which at the time of the truce a journalist and a cameraman of Austrian television were saved in a very clear, marked press vehicle marked. This is said to have been a pure murder, and therefore no one has ever been criminally responsible, because, as you know, none of JLA's aggressors have ever been convicted of their work in Slovenia. That, I'm sorry, gives a very strange impression. Those, by the way, who wear this, often wear Karl Marx, which is very fun, because you need to know that Nazism and socialism are both, communism, if you want, based on the teachings of Karl Marx, who first talked about genocide, that this is the extermination of less valuable nations and so on, the Slavs also mentioned in between, so wearing it around is, say, a reflection of some strange brainwashing by the central media and the school system, but so it is. But when it comes to official organs and punishment, the story is quite different. If a free judgment is permitted here, then what follows? That the government or the ministry and the police divide citizens into citizens of the first order, i.e. citizens who can even wear totalitarian symbols, and citizens of the second order who cannot hang a single flag of a country from the time of Austro-Hungarian, which is totally, forgive, constitutionally unacceptable, obviously constitutionally unacceptable. And you all know that. That's why I'm asking the question: Is the Ministry’s right of discretion constitutionally permissible [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u117	Mag. Grims, let me ask you whether you want in writing or in oral form at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u118	I certainly want an oral answer because this is a question of the constitutional category and equality before the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u119	Okay. It's an oral response. Thank you very much. We're moving on. Dr. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček will ask the Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr. Maja Makovec Brenčič a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u120	Thank you for your word. That's a good-bye to all of you! Madam Minister, my question touches on the topic of the study of biopsychology, which is being carried out at the Faculty of Mathematics, Science and Information Technology at the University of Primorska. This programme is a public programme accredited under the Higher Education Act. It is also an innovative study that combines two fundamental fields of science, science and social science, aimed at exceeding the traditional division of the treatment of personal and social phenomena only from a social or natural point of view. Such knowledge is desirable and desirable in the modern world – in all areas of social life and action, including in the fields of social work, education, health, culture and could also be listed. This is also evidenced by the fact that between young researchers from 175 cities last year, there were two graduates from five who had completed the second stage of Biopsychology. Nevertheless, the graduates of Biopsychology have encountered many obstacles in the labour market, as they are involved in social work, health care, education and the like for so-called regulated professions, whose conditions – who and with what education they can perform – are determined by sectoral legislation, which is not considered to be an appropriate education of the Biopsychology programme. There has been a lot of talk about this issue in the public and in the Member States. Finally, colleague Jan Mahnic received a reply from the Government regarding the regulation of this problem that, in the field of health, if I sum up, there is virtually nothing to be done. However, there have also been complications in the area of education and education. According to my information, the department of the department met with representatives of the students of biopsychology last month in March. That is why I am interested in this, Madam Secretary-General, in: How far away are the procedures by which the Ministry of Justice on the appropriateness and competences of the Biopsychology study programme to eliminate and thus facilitate the way to work in the field of education and education? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u121	Madam Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u122	Dear President, honourable Members, honourable Members! True, Biopsychology is an independent study programme accredited by the former Higher Education Council in 2009. This is the first stage and also the continuation within the University of Primorsk, which proposed this programme as required by law. The University is the one who can independently draw up proposals for programmes, the Council, the former world, and today the NAKVIS is the credible institutions that either review or review these programmes, whether they meet both the quality elements and of course the learning objectives and, of course, the employment area. Both the Council and the NAKVIS require in their audits that individual players be on the market or in society who can enable the employability of graduates coming from different programmes. This programme has also been valued in this way. Of course, this does not mean that it can ensure either the NAKVIS or the former Council or the Ministry, that graduates in a programme are then actually employed. So it checks employment, not employment, because, of course, it's not in our jurisdiction. However, it is true that, in view of the questions raised, these were repeatedly referred not only to the Ministry, but also to the NAKVIS, as well as to the topic already discussed in the Student Affairs Council and, of course, we will also be in advance, but, above all, we have given NAKVIS the initiative to consider an expert review or evaluation in a way that, especially when it comes to combining areas, is as complex an area as it is in this case, tries not only precisely, but also in accordance with the envisaged either regulatory expectations or the expectation of the learning objectives of the basic programme to anticipate also those elements which, at this point, are impossible to reach, given how the programme itself has been accredited. This means that, of course, the one who is proposing an accredited programme or programme in the accreditation process, including those who must then ensure that the elements that the programme fulfils are in fact applied. We are, of course, talking about the six areas of evaluation that the Council must once carry out, today NAKVIS. What is important or what is needed in this regard, we will also set up a working group in other areas where the past appears, and I can say, the shortcomings in the provision of the elements, when the programme itself is proposed, which will also try to examine and verify how we can primarily resolve these issues in the future so that students are not placed in such a precarious situation as they are in the case that we are dealing with. At the same time, according to the request of NAKVIS, we will also try to verify how – the NAKVIS now has this programme in the process of re-crediting or reviewing the programme – this programme can be complemented by, of course, allowing greater employability in the areas that students want. At the same time, of course, I repeat that neither the Ministry nor the NAKVIS nor the former Council can ensure that there is actually a job or final employment. Given that the issue is up-to-date, given that, of course, this issue has now been brought to the level of universities even more or higher education institutions since we have adopted programme accreditation, it means that all higher education actors will need to be more aware of what is proposed in the programme, what is accredited in the programme and what this programme can then provide. You also mentioned the area of health, which has also given its opinion on this current programme. That is why we are trying, through the peer reviews and the work of this working group, to examine how, when it comes to several areas at the same time, we can make it easier not only to prepare programmes but also then to evaluate the standards that programmes need to achieve. And here's the basic path that started in 2009. It is difficult to change anything back, but we certainly need to think about how we can set a clearer picture for the future, as can the actual expectations of the students.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u123	Dr. Miriam Bon Klanjšček, you have the floor to request an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u124	Thank you very much for an extensive explanation of the accreditation process. As we know, the Faculty of Mathematics, Science and Information Technology, at a second stage in addition to Biopsychology in this school year, has started by entering a new programme of Applied Psychology. After completion of the study, students will receive the title of Master of Psychology and will, as far as I know, be employed in the field of health, as the Ministry of Health said. If I am not mistaken, however, last year's university asked the Ministry of the Interior for an opinion in May and, as far as I am concerned, a working group has already been set up to study the employment of these graduates of Applied Psychology in the field of education and education. And now I want to know: How are the procedures for this recruitment check progressing? Given that the program is already under way, it would be appropriate for these students who have already started their studies and those who will be enrolled in the future to know what they're up to. What I'm interested in is: When will colleges and students get an answer? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u125	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u126	Thank you very much. I also mentioned this working group in the previous reply, because it is not only about the current question of biopsychology, but also, of course, more broadly in the field of psychology, not only at the University of Primorska, but also the question of what is the true competence of an individual diplomat in order to ensure employment in those areas that they want within education and education. Not only are the areas mentioned, but many other areas still want to do so and, of course, we would also want to do so for reasons of finding their jobs, so it is very important that we evaluate the standards here and ensure that all those who have the opportunity and the opportunity to do so in accordance with the programmes already implemented are also given equivalence with those who do not, of course, have this in the programme, but must ensure adequate competence. That is what this working group is discussing. The talks are under way, and I think we will try to find a system solution in particular in a way that would not interfere with the educational space in a way where those graduates who carry out their programme would not achieve appropriate standards and thus also have competence. This area is important precisely because of knowledge of didactics, pedagogy and so on and, of course, we cannot evaluate the standards achieved differently, on the contrary, we must seek a single solution for all.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u127	Dr. Miriam Bon Klanjšček, please, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u128	I just want to thank you for your answer. If there is no public matter or solution in due course, I do not require a general debate in the National Assembly on this subject, but I will call on the Education Committee if it is necessary for us to speak there. I sincerely hope you don't have to take care of this as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojana Muršič will ask the question of the question to the Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Zdravek Počvalšk. Mrs. Mursich, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister, respectable colleagues and colleagues! Recently, we have witnessed in Slovenia that the Post Office of Slovenia has decided to close post offices or at some point to transform post offices into mobile post offices, which will now be carried out by postmen. Such interventions occur mainly on the periphery, making access to postal services more difficult for residents and residents. Dear Minister, it follows from the Postal Services Act that the Republic of Slovenia provides in the public interest all users of postal services throughout its territory under the same conditions, on a permanent, regular and smooth basis, the provision of universal services. Despite this definition, municipalities are placed in front of an unloving situation and thus also of people and people, since the Post Office of Slovenia is making a substantive decision to optimize the postal network, so that is to say to close and transform the mail into moving mail. Pursuant to the new proposal, the mailers would carry out the reception and delivery of shipments, receipt of payment of bills, payment of postal bills, payment of amounts from neighbouring accounts to New KBM, sales of stamps, envelopes, postcards, sales of tickets and certain sets of commercial goods. Perhaps, from a quick review, such a way of organising mail management could say that it is a good decision, but it is necessary to look at it from an overall perspective. This way of doing business will not provide or provide quality universal postal services as defined by the Postal Services Act. This measure significantly reduces the quality of life that has already been deprived of many of the benefits of modern - day centres. This change will also increase the burden and safety of mailers, and will also make their way of working worse. In addition, it is not possible to overlook that local communities are obliged to obtain a prior opinion on such a decision in accordance with the General Act on the Quality of the Implementation of Universal Postal Services of Slovenia. Most of the cases show that the congregations opposed it, but the Post office did not follow. So, Mr. Secretary, here I'm asking: Has the Government of the Republic of Slovenia changed its position and strategic direction on equal regional development and thus equal access to postal services for all residents and residents of the Republic of Slovenia, including those who do not live and live in large centres or city centres? What will you do as a minister to ensure that the conditions of the postman do not deteriorate? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u131	Mr Zdravko Restoršek, Minister for Economy and Technology, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u132	Dear President! Dear Member, thank you very much for the question. Dear Members and Members! The postal service of Slovenia provides universal postal services of quality to all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, to the extent required by the Postal Service Act and the General Act on the quality of the provision of universal postal services. The Postal Services Act provides that the Republic of Slovenia shall, in the public interest, provide to all postal users in its entire territory under the same conditions, on a permanent, regular and smooth basis, the provision of universal service, provided that it may be interrupted only by force majeure or in situations dangerous to the supplier. A universal service shall provide all postal service users with at least one reception per week for at least five working days and one delivery per day to the home or to the premises of each natural or legal person. The General Quality Act on the implementation of the Universal Postal Service provides that direct work with postal service users shall be carried out through so-called contact points. This may be organised as a post office, contract post office or special organisational form of the point of contact determined by the universal service provider, such as an exposed window, a letter office or mobile post. The universal postal service provider shall be deemed to meet the requirements if it provides at least one contact point in each municipality in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and if, for 95 % of the inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia, the air distance to the nearest contact point does not exceed 4,5 km. Slovenia’s Post Office notes that in the face of irreversible trends, the decline in classical postal services and payment services provided by users in postal windows, even in the most optimistic scenarios for introducing new services, will not be able to maintain the same density of the postal network. Therefore, Slovenia's post office started a long time ago with the Post Network Optimisation project. It should be noted that before launching the postal network optimization project, the Post Office of Slovenia had an over-average network of contact points. This network has exceeded and is still beyond the criteria set out in the General Act on the Quality of the Universal Postal Service, and is also at the density of the network above the average of the European Union countries. Optimisation of the postal network involves transforming the contact points into more rational forms and thereby reducing the costs of providing the postal network. Optimisation, of course, also includes closing those points of contact that are not mandatory under the General Act. However, even in cases where the Postal Service of Slovenia closes the contact point, universal postal services are provided to residents in these areas, as is the case with the above mentioned regulations. It is true, however, that in such places the way to the nearest point of contact is extended, but in line with the criteria still within the prescribed framework. However, I would like to point out that the Post Office of Slovenia is not part of the public sector, but is an economic company of private law and works as part of an economic public service task as a universal postal service. This means that the Post Office of Slovenia works largely under conditions of market competition and creates all its revenues on the market. Therefore, Posta Slovenije as an economic company is subject to market legality, and the Posta Slovenije fully complies with and respects legal requirements, which also applies to the provision of the scope and quality of universal postal service throughout the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and to all its citizens after this rationalisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u133	Mag. Bojana Muršič, you have the floor to request a complete reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for your answer. I have to say, it only referred to the first part. True, the Slovenian Post Office is an economic public service, it must respect market legality, but it should be stressed that the Slovenian Post Office operated successfully in 2016, concluded with a higher business result than in 2015 for a total of 12.2 million euros. Of course, this is very commendable, despite the decline in income from classical postal services. Nevertheless, I do not think that the way that Post now introduces it is actually rationalising the business of residents and residents is good. We also have here the burden of postmen, which by this way of work is substantially changing. It is said that even now with the automation of procedures that mailmen have to carry out with the user, this is significantly slower and slower for postmen. So once again, because in the first part, you didn't answer this question: How will the mailmen do this work in the future? How will post office security be ensured in their work? How do you see this aspect? I believe that this, as you mentioned, is an economic public service that is subject to market law, but I am interested in your view of the work of postmen, who will face a number of problems in the new way of work, with a greater burden of work, so I want your answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u135	Minister Zdravko Rest, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u136	The optimisation of the postal network is a strategic project of Post Slovenia based on a strategic development programme adopted or implemented from 2007 to 2015 and later on a programme level for the period 2013-2017 and the Postal Services Act and the General Quality Act on the implementation of the universal postal service. This project was implemented by the Slovenian Post Office in 2012 and successfully completed the first phase by 2016. It is currently continuing the second phase of the project, which is expected to be completed by 2022. This project is also based on the good practices of other universal postal service providers in the European Union. However, I must say that, as in all areas of change, a constructive approach is required by all stakeholders, those planning such rationalisation, as well as the operators. I believe that in terms of security, nothing can and cannot be changed for the postman. Of course, a way of working in a variety of areas will be different as it has been so far, as different forms of contact points are introduced that require a different approach from postmen. I believe that the Post Office or Mail Management will do everything within the framework of the legislative basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u137	Mag. Marko Pogačnik will ask the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petar Gasperšič, a minister of infrastructure, who has been excused since 3 p.m. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u138	Mr President, thank you for your floor. In view of the absence of the Minister, I propose that the Minister answer my question in writing. I wanted to ask the Minister a question about the misleading of the results of the exhausts in some cars. We all know that the Volkswagen affair broke out in 2015 in America. Finally, for these findings of the adaptation of the results of the releases, it was then shown that they did the same in the area of Europe. I want to know: Did the Republic of Slovenia initiate any claims against Porsche Slovenia, d.o.o. regarding the car brand Volkswagen, Audi, Seat and Škoda in connection with the fraud of these results? I am particularly interested because we know that on the basis of the results of CO2 emissions, then users of these cars also pay a tax in the budget. In the event that there has been a fraud with results, I am sure that they have also been paying for these derogations. According to some media data, about 35,000 cars are subjected to these irregular results in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u139	Thank you very much. We continue with Dr. Anjet Logar, who will raise the question of the question to Minister of Culture Anton Persak. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u140	Thank you, Chairman. I am asking the Minister about the letter from the directors of the theatre concerning the amendment of the Act of the Slovenian Philharmonic. In fact, directors have written down that they recognize the worst elements of self-government in this step. Dear Minister, by adopting the new Act of the Slovenian Philharmonic you have actively participated in the human resources battles in one of the public institutions. Apparently, you've been personally engaged in the replacement of a successful director of the public agency, which in 2016, I think, raised over €220,000 over expenditure, but at the same time, for example, you're letting go of the attention of some other directors of the public institutions that produce annually, I don't know, 157 thousand euros in losses. According to the Culture Ministry, you said that Mr Damjanovic must leave the Slovenian Philharmonic. My question is therefore very simple: So, according to whose direction did you embark on this human resources crusade in one of the successful public institutions? Now you're looking for all sorts of reasons to replace the director. First you ordered a replacement of the members of the council, then you ordered an audit in your gut, which was wrongly placed, so the court dismissed it. Now you've finally gone to a proper audit of this public institution with one purpose to find out what an irregularity is. You have also publicly lied that the director of this institution has promised you his departure, which of course is not true, and you continue to challenge the authority and autonomy of this institution's management. You have actively sided with trade unions in a dispute in a successful public institution. This is about as if the President of the Government publicly supported the unionist Struklja and went against his Minister Koprivnik in the negotiations on the resolution of a dispute. With the public support of the act or with this amendment of the act and public support to the strikers in the public office, you have essentially opened Pandora's box, which is also pointed out to you by the directors of theatre activities, which is why other unions have already turned to you and demand similar in other public institutions. I want to know: Will you change the acts in this direction of self-government in other public institutions, or will this remain a sui generis change only in the Slovenian Philharmonic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u141	Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u142	Thank you. I'm not going to answer what you're saying in the culinary rumors about the Ministry of Culture, but only what's a fact. First of all, let me say that we have changed the decision on the establishment of the Slovenian Public Institute of Philharmonic into two details, say. One is based on the law. The law allows representatives of employees in public institutions to have a third of the members of the world. In view of the fact that this is an artistic public institution, where two artistic corps, one is an orchestra, the other is a choir, it seems to me, of course, that I come from the field of culture, the desire of employees in this case seems justified and in this case I do not see any elements of self-governance where things were substantially different, to a degree of co-management. The same is true for the first amendment, this is a change that when the director of a public institution, which otherwise declares itself as the artistic leader of this public institution, needs the assistance of the head of the conductor and asks the head of the conductor to ask for the opinion of the orchestra, which I feel once again in view of the artistic nature of this public institution entirely on its own. It's just an opinion, it's not a condition of any kind of veto right or anything like that, it's a simple culture of consultation, which is to be considered in itself for artistic public institutions. As regards other public institutions in the field of art, of course the differences that we want to regulate in the future with the law are very large among public institutions. This fear of directors of drama theatres is unfounded, given that drama theatres have no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Even the closest would possibly be the function of a permanent house director, and this is not yet the nature of the acting head of the conductor in the Slovenian Philharmonic. But the other thing is, guesses or guesses on the basis of the culinary rumours, I wouldn't answer. That's all. The Director of the Public Institute of the Slovenian Philharmonic publicly told seven witnesses that he was ready to resign immediately if we arranged for him to serve properly at the Ministry of Culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u143	Dr. Ange Logar, you have the floor to request a complete response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u144	Thank you. Directors of Slovenian theatres, however, wrote publicly two million years ago with this letter that this step "recognizable the worst elements of self-government". These are not my words, these are the words of those who deal with this and have also written down, "with unilateral, unhappy and long-term harmful measures for the Slovenian Philharmonic, the Ministry of Culture has resorted to the autonomy of this institution." You didn't answer me, you'll do it in other public institutions or then you'll pull back, so it'll just be a sui generis solution for the Slovenian Philharmonic. Because in this case, you are actively involved in this replacement. If you want proof that we're not talking about culinary things, I'm asking you: Are you or aren't you 18. Seven. 2016 get with strikers and then a few more times? Did they not then request Director Damjanović's criminal vocation? Whatever that means, are they or aren't they? Did Mr. – someone else – Branimir Stukelj have an introduction at that meeting? Did you or did you not then advocate that this problem be solved? And you did. As I said with the sui generis solution only for the Slovenian Philharmonic. How many times did they then meet the strikers and end up agreeing with them, and other colleagues in the government convinced them that they had accepted this, as the theatremen say, “one-sided, unhappy and long-term harmful act”? So the question is: Whose orders are you working on? According to the instructions of Branimir Struggle or are you dancing on someone else's notes? In fact, you do not act in the spirit and in the interest of an autonomous, successful, public institution of the Slovenian Philharmonic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u145	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u146	The Slovenian Philharmonic is the only institution of this type in Slovenia, and only with regard to the Slovenian Philharmonic was such a change to the founding act meaningful. Because, as it's said, the head of the conductors, the other public institutions don't. Secondly, yes, I have spoken with the representatives of the Slovenian Philharmonic Union because you are not well-educated enough, even the presidents of the two unions were not only the one you mentioned. I met with representatives of the Slovenian Philharmonic Union and the entire orchestra once, with representatives of the union, I think, twice. Several times more than the union representatives, however, I also spoke with the director of the Slovenian Philharmonic, with the President of the Council of the Slovenian Philharmonic because it is my principle to talk to all those involved in a dispute and then to decide not according to instructions, but according to my own judgment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u147	Ange Logar, you have the floor to request procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u148	Thank you. You may have spoken to the director several times, but apparently to convince him to accept the terms of the strikers. So once again, you point out that you have played a role in this dispute by representing trade unions, not by appointing the Council to act as leader of a cultural institution. And you also lied about the words of the founder, but not the words of the strikers. If you really wanted to calm down or regulate your passions in this area, you would probably have waited until the court's decision. In fact, you are well aware that the management of the institution has also raised a dispute in the court over whether this sentence of the Orcs is legal at all. And probably if you've met the head of this public office so many times, you might know they're 27. The third settlement task of mediation, where they may be harmonised, and therefore, if we were in the interest of maintaining legality and good cooperation, we would wait within the office for the matter to be mediated with the assistance of the court. But no, you rushed, and today you said that you decided to change Sui generis just to change into one of the institutions, which is direct evidence that you decide by name and surname or maybe by customer affiliation, but not by the matter and depth of the problem that is in a particular public institution. I therefore propose, I think, that we should also hold a public debate in this regard at the meeting of the National Assembly. In fact, with such unilateral and unilateral actions by the minister, who is willing to become a minister also to join one of the parties, irreparable damage is being done to the Slovenian cultural scene, to the serenity, which is, last but not least, being warned by the theatremen and the leaders of other organisations who rightly stood up after this unilateral, unilateral move by the Minister for Culture.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u149	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Friday in the framework of the vote. Mag. Branislav Rajić will ask the question of the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Peter Gasperšić, who is rightly absent. Here you go, Mr. Rajic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister is absent because he went to make the drivers in Primorsk happy by declaring the passage through the Markovec tunnel without the vignette system. We in Maribor would like to have a similar ceremony at our end soon when the vinjet system on the fast road through Maribor is abolished. The fast road in Maribor was built between 1976 and 2007 and was designed as a city fast road, unloading transit traffic and a city road network. Therefore, the current investor Republic Road Community of Slovenia decided to build the road in cooperation with the municipality of Maribor. On the basis of the agreement on the construction of a fast road, they agreed that 25% of the funds would be contributed by the city of Maribor and 75% by the Republic. Because of its design, the fast road has taken over a large part of urban transport and is an irreplaceable part of the city road network. Part of this network is connected to low road crossings, which is why the fast road in the Toll Roads and Roads Regulation is not included among the roads for which toll is paid. As a result, the traffic signaling which quickly marks the road as a toll road is inadequate, so I suggest that its operator removes the misdirected traffic signal to mark the toll road because the road does not have an appropriate standard to justify tolling. As a result of the existing tolling system, drivers of passenger cars whose obligation is to purchase a vignette are in an unequal position in this section against toll-station vehicles. In the wider area between the toll stations of Pesnica and Teping, which also includes a fast road, they can drive free of charge and without penalty, while the drivers of passenger vehicles are punished without guilt at the section of the fast road through Maribor. It is paradoxical for those who have contributed to the construction of the road to be charged the use of the road and for those who have not contributed to it free of charge. The roads are built mainly to relieve traffic and improve traffic safety, so to follow the principle of Via Vita travellers, the road is life. I am asking the Minister for a written answer on the possibility of shutting down the vignette system on a fast road through Maribor as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Ms Eva Irgle will ask the Minister of Justice a question. Goran Klemenčich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u152	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary of State! On Thursday, at the Commission's meeting on petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities on my initiative, we discussed an extremely important issue, the very important topic of today's time and space. As a matter of fact, it's a top topic, as my colleague German put it at this meeting. We talked about security on the Internet, about the traps that modern information society brings. We talked about how to protect ourselves from so-called cyber crime. We talked about how to protect the right to privacy on the Internet. Of course, we have also talked about a very important and current case of human rights violations, such as Ornig. Mr Dejan Ornig illegally, according to police instructions, hacked into e-mails, facebook profiles, twitter accounts, into other private communications for more than 300 citizens and citizens. Of course, the rule of law is still being tested here in terms of protecting and respecting human rights. You weren't there, I missed you, I have to say, because I think it's important that the Minister of Justice be present on such important topics, but there was no one else from the Ministry of Justice. That's why I'm here: Do you feel that this darkness is not so important and that no one has responded to our invitation? Because, at this meeting, I have to say, I have invited various security experts in the field of computer science. They said that absolute security on the Internet is not, of course, that some cautious behaviours, but in particular the knowledge of certain rules, can be achieved that we are not so vulnerable and so open to attacks by various forms of cyber crime, which, of course, covers a very wide range of activities up to the point of identity to blackmail by online fraud, fraud, blackmail by legal persons and so on. Mr. Minister, I read you're going to change the new penal code. This is supposed to bring about some changes in the area of online abuse. I welcome this. But here I would like a concrete answer from you: What exactly are you preparing? Do you think that more needs to be done, however, in terms of cybercrime law? How does it cut into the part that will actually begin to chase in these areas? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u153	The word is from the Minister of Justice, mag. Goran Klemenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u154	Vice President, thank you so much for your words! Dear Member, Eva Irgle, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, colleague and colleague of the Minister! I agree, and I apologize, or because we sent you an apology, we were stuck on that day. You must not take this as our underestimation of the problem. Cybercrime – here we can absolutely agree – is one of the important topics that we must address not only from the point of view of criminal law but generally with legal aspects and also from the point of view of prevention. You rightly pointed out in your question that there are two elements here, cybercrime on the one hand, that there is a security risk and, on the other hand, an extremely sensitive area of privacy protection. Between these two it is quite difficult to swim sometimes and the Ministry of Justice here is more possible than any other ministry between the floor and the fork because we also have to take care of that other side. But now a concrete answer for the protection of constitutional rights. I now specifically believe that this government and the Ministry of Justice have shown in the last year that these issues are not foreign to them. If I start with what you asked me directly. Last week, the government adopted a amendment to the Criminal Procedure Act, which regulates the criminal procedure in a slightly different way, more clearly in our opinion, which will be discussed in Parliament, and I believe that the general debate, this area, will also take place. First of all, let's say I go straight. The new 149.b. will ensure effective and constitutional access to stored telecommunications data. We know that the Constitutional Court repealed the provisions of the ZEK, the Law on Electronic Communications years ago, and the European Court of Justice of Luxembourg have done the same. Now the data is automatically not stored and there was a legal void. Article 194 is introduced into this law. With it, Slovenia fully implements, in our opinion, the so-called date of the freeze provisions of the Council of Europe Convention on Cybercrime. The police will thus be able to reach a rapid start of the individual suspect's communication activities from operators and other communication service providers. We are not just talking about phones, of course, but especially about the Internet, which is important. Of course, all I've said before is that these two are bound by a prior court order. The following is the new Article 194 further clarifyes and simplifies the acquisition of customer data on telecommunications users, in particular in the procedures for the anonymity of the identity of users, again on the basis of judicial approval. IMSI-catcher, the IMSI hunter is not that connected, although we work with telecommunications. Then we have completed – which I think is quite modern and necessary – a supplement to Article 156, which will also allow the police to obtain data on holders or traffic with so-called virtual currencies, in particular bitcoin. These are some but not all, some of the solutions in the Criminal Procedure Act, which is already, I think, in the National Assembly because it was adopted last week in the Government. It is also important that the Ministry has taken an intensive approach to the implementation of the Directive on European Investigation. This is a relatively new directive. Many of you are aware of the Directive on a European Arrest Warrant, which is very effective throughout the European Union. A European investigation task is now also being implemented, which will enable the police, in cooperation with the courts, to carry out significantly faster investigations within other Member States. This is often the case with investigative actions that are somehow linked to the virtual world. However, what will be most decisive in the future is that, under the Dutch Presidency one year ago, the European Commission's special working group on so-called electronic evidence has started work, where Europe or the Justice Ministers have decided to have a common front in this area, including in order to be able to work with third countries and to have a better position on important corporations – leading in this area: Google, Facebook, Apple, Microsoft – also in the area of obtaining evidence. Finally, you also know that the Penal Code was last supplemented by the incrimination of a new crime, called hate porn – revenge or the publication of sexual content with the aim of revenge right on the Internet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u155	Mrs. Eva Irgle, you have the floor to request a complete reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u156	Thank you so much for saying that. Surely we will all have to discuss this important issue of privacy on the Internet at one of the plenary sessions together in the National Assembly. In fact, we are all in this and not just Slovenia, but the whole world is dealing with these security issues. Mr. Minister, thank you for explaining to me why there was no one from the Ministry at the meeting, but I just wanted to say that, on the other hand, there was a very strong team from the interior minister, probably because of the Ornig case. But that's all I'm interested in: How many cyber crime cases have actually been tried in courts if possible? Do certain people who have committed some cyber crime actually do the time? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u157	Minister Klemenčič, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u158	Thank you very much again for your word. First of all, Ornig and I have nothing, and that's kind of another story. I don't have statistics because I didn't know you were gonna ask me that. I'll get them and we'll send them to you, just like we always do. I just want to point out something, because I know you understand that. Sometimes we understand the issue of cybercrime in a general way. We have cybercrime, where there are new emerging forms of crime that can only happen online, such as bitcoin abuse, hacking into information systems. Then we have a set of crimes that are classic crimes, such as fraud, fraud, threats where the Internet or the information system is a tool. And then we have that third part, which, of course, is more and more important because of the storage of data in information systems, where classical crimes are involved, corruption can happen, anything where evidence is stored in electronic form. All of this has to be covered. Undoubtedly, many crimes have already been committed in a court where electronic evidence has been used as evidence. I also know about some of the cases that have been concluded in the area of classical cyber crime, but I believe that we can deliver them to you in writing, we will get them from the prosecution or from the courts and we will deliver them to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u159	Dr Matthew T. Vatovec will ask the Minister of Public Administration, Mr Boris Koprivnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u160	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, I have addressed to you a question concerning the handling of the real property of the State and of the local self-government communities. In this area, we have had a number of problems for several years both at state and local level, as confirmed by the various audits carried out by the Court of Auditors. Only rarely are audit reports, where the Court of Auditors would not find untransparent, uneconomic or unnecessary treatment of immovable property. There were also no reports of illegality. In a way, I was encouraged to ask this question today, a recent event in the Municipality of Koper. I believe that this is a specific case that we can probably extend to some other congregations and also to the country if we take these particular reports into account by the Court of Auditors. What's this all about? The mayor in Koper decided that he would buy one property on his own at one auction, some renovated defence tower in the village of Glem, and spend about half a million euros to do so. This purchase of real estate was not foreseen in the adopted annual real estate management plan, there was no provision in the budget for this purchase and also the municipal rules of such voluntary purchase or purchase on their own, as the restriction there is also in line with the law of EUR 20 000. Although in this case the mayor had every possibility that within two months this auction had actually begun or was announced that he would, of course, adopt appropriate amendments to municipal regulations in the municipal council, he would rather have chosen the principle of what they could do to me, which is also the basis for this issue. In all, it is of course most problematic that legislation does not provide the municipal council with any effective tools to prevent or provide it with no effective means of action in such cases. So he has no legal interest in these cases, if I may say so. It also follows from practice that there may not be some effective control of the implementation of such practices at national level. That's why I'm asking you: Do you believe that the current regime in the field of real property management is appropriate both at national and local level? Do you believe that the State provides adequate control over the non-transparent, economically unjustifiable and, in certain cases, illegal treatment of property? Do you believe that the current regulation in the USSDSLS and also in the Public Finance Act is appropriate and provides adequate safeguards and controls in such cases? Does the Ministry have any analysis of how much resources are spent at national and local level to purchase immovable property that is not included in the management plans?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u161	Thank you. Mr Boris Koprivnikar, Minister of Public Administration, will answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u162	Thank you, President, for your words and thanks, honourable Member, for these questions, which I will hardly answer very precisely, because you have announced the question: I will ask you something in connection with real estate. That was the end of the question. Otherwise, I would be happy to offer you this moment with very specific information. What I can now answer is that the Real Estate Act of the State and the Self-Governmental Local Communities and the State and Local Community Property Regulation apply separately to the state and local communities. These are also provisions that stipulate, inter alia, that the local community cannot purchase any property worth more than EUR 20 000 without a public auction or a public tendering, unless specifically specified. At the same time, you need to know that local self-government is autonomous and the government or our ministry has absolutely no authority to interfere with the decisions of each local community. What the congregation does is its autonomous right. At the same time, we well know that the congregation can do so as the state does according to a plan to deal with real property from sales and acquisition, and if this plan deviates radically, this plan must be complemented and adopted by the municipal council. That's the law. If he fails to do so, the congregation shall, of course, have the power to act on this supervisory committee, which shall have the power to derogate in such a case. All the control and action mechanisms are both at state level and at local level, which I have just described to you, of course, available, but the tasks of the competent institution must play out. We are all, of course, subject to the supervision of the Court of Auditors. If there is illegality, then this must be resolved in legal proceedings. But once again, the government has no right to interfere with the decisions of the local community, which has established bodies: the municipal council, the mayor and the supervisory council, which must play their part in this case. However, as far as the appropriateness of the arrangements is concerned, we are currently preparing improvements to legislation in this area. If I were to be familiar with the question, I could tell you more specifically which ones. But we have a very precise analysis of how much property is bought, of how much is unused. We have recently read in the media about large amounts of unused state property per square inch. Let me tell you that on most of these surfaces there are border crossings that we no longer need and that infrastructure that existed at the borders. We continue intensively with the restoration of state property and also with the redemption of the missing, so that as many authorities as possible are actually placed in those facilities whose ownership is the State, thereby reducing the rent costs. I am also pleased to say that already in 2016, as the first year in the middle of the Centralisation of State Property Management Project, we have already created several million savings, which we have immediately dedicated to the restoration of state assets, so that it will actually become a function and that we will reduce the cost of hiring the authorities now in rented premises. Once again, I stress that the local community has a municipal decision-making council, a mayor implementing the decisions, and a supervisory council which, in the event of non-compliance with these decisions, is in fact acting, so all the powers are vested in them. We are also subject to the supervision of the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec, you're requesting a supplement to your response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u164	What you said is true, of course, but the problem is that it's kind of a model of how things work properly. It is said that we have a relatively correct mayor who adheres to the rules, we have a municipal council, which, of course, also with consideration confirms the possible things accepted by the mayor, and probably what is crucial in this story, the supervisory board or the supervisory board, which actually effectively exercises its function, controls the business, particularly materially, of the congregation. In this ideal world on paper, there is that ugly reality in real life and also derogations. I will not criticize every municipality in Slovenia, but there are probably anomalies. I think I can hope to claim that Koper is one of these anomalies. The fact is, the mayor did it on his own. The municipal council has not approved or amended the acts accordingly, but in some way it has carried out some legal process and has also created some legal void by deleting the provision that the mayor may take any decision at all. There is also a question of the Supervisory Board, which is practically entirely within the mayor's composition. We have seen many times in the past the direction in which the decisions of this supervisory council are going, so I am still asking you, but I will also ask you in writing this question so that you can answer more fully. It is true that the local community or local self-government must be autonomous, but I think that we have seen many times in various areas that this autonomy unfortunately results in simply pretending to be laws and certain principles and rules and without consequences. So I'm interested in: Will these reforms, as previously discussed or in the improvement of this legislation, nevertheless develop a more stringent or more effective control mechanism?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr. Koprivnik, Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u166	Thank you once again for your word and this addition to the question. Firstly, let me say that I absolutely cannot agree to the thesis that you initially said that if one mayor does it, that it is very likely that everyone and the country is doing it. That's kind of how you freak out. I think that it is unfair for the majority of those who respect the laws to do so with both municipal and state property, so I cannot accept such a challenge. Once again, if we are talking about non-compliance with laws, then we are wondering what should be done if laws are not respected – whether laws change or require sanctions. Because in the case that it is explained to you, we have everything that is necessary to sanction such things actually available. We have a supervisory committee, we have a municipal council and we have a mayor, and all of them, at least the municipal council and the mayor, were elected to the local elections. It's called democracy. If someone fails to comply with the law, we also have the penalties provided for, and we have, not least, the supervision of the Court of Auditors, which can order corrective action and we are constantly facing it. We also have legal protection. But if someone doesn't respect the legislation, abuse it or miss it, and if the legislation is clear and good, then we probably won't be looking for a solution to change the legislation, but in sanctions for those who do. However, they need to be proved and procedures must be put in place to do so. If you also ask this question in writing, we will be happy to explain to you more concretely, including the proposed amendments to the legislation in this area. However, if you are asking me what the state can do in this case to limit, as you suggest, the arbitrary conduct of individual mayors, then I must reiterate the fundamental constitutional principle we have in this country, which is the autonomy of local authorities. The Government has no right to interfere in the decisions of the local authorities, which have been legitimately elected and acted in accordance with their establishment. Therefore, all the necessary supervisory authorities are established at the local level. If they do not work, there are also mechanisms for reporting, identifying responsibilities and also sanctioning. These mechanisms exist and I propose that they be applied in this case.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mr Daniel Krivec will raise the question to the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Peter Gasperšić. Since the Minister is absent, please also identify yourself until the way in which the answer is made.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u168	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I'd like to ask for the minister's written reply because he's away today. I would like to ask the minister about the issue of the second track. In fact, at the 49th urgent meeting of the Infrastructure Committee, the Minister provided information that the Second Tier Act, which had, of course, been introduced, would be introduced into the procedure. I ask him: How will the financial structure be drawn up, given that the final value of the investment has not yet been confirmed? This is why we have quite a few materials that are contradictory or very lacking. In particular, the Geodate final report, which speaks of the inadequacy of the use of this second track, is said not to be definitively defined whether it will only be a track for freight traffic or whether it will be a track that will also allow mixed traffic. On the basis of this, Geodata concludes that more precise costs could be defined in some more detailed assessment or in some separate expertise. So we don't even have about the final value of this project. More than that, if we look at the website of 2TKK where the individual answers to certain questions are, what will happen to the existing track after the construction of the second track is the question on this website, where the answer is that "in the model of train operation, it is assumed that the existing route will be intended for the journey of freight trains in the direction of Divaca-Koper", it is said, against Koper, "a new route of freight trains in the opposite direction". In these answers, too, the matter is not in line with this study, Geodate, because it speaks only of freight trains. This study discusses mixed traffic all the time. In this study done by Geodata and where it somehow confirms the value of a billion 400, no existing track has been addressed. However, when we read on the 2TKK website, we are still talking about driving on the existing track towards Cyprus, which is still a major fire threat and does not solve this problem. So, there are many really open questions that can substantially change the financial structure, so the rush to put this law without a clear picture of how the financial structure will be composed or how much of this investment will be, in a way, problematic and therefore I want an answer from the minister, how the final value is defined and how the financial structure will be complex. Because if we later read the answers or the questions that arise about finances, there are more than 500 million now, and all else is provided by credit. That's why I'm expecting a written answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u169	Thank you very much. You'll get the answer. Mrs Iva Dimic will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Dr Anji Kopač Dark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u170	Thank you for your word. Madam Minister, in accordance with the Law on Scholarship to a student or student, the recipient of the State grant may be granted an education allowance outside the residence of a student, amounting to EUR 79. In accordance with the law, the Minister responsible for the work shall lay down, by means of a sub-law, more detailed criteria for the determination of this supplement. In accordance with the Regulations of the Scholar, a residence allowance shall be granted if, from the first day of the following month after the application has been made at the place of education, a temporary residence has been prepared in accordance with the law governing the application of residence. The grantor applying the residence allowance shall submit a certified photocopy of the rental contract concluded for the school year or study year for which the allowance applies no later than 5 days following the submission. If the grantor submits evidence within that period, the Centre for Social Work shall invite him to complete the application. The condition of 25 km from the place of residence to the place of education is determined by the distance between the place of residence and the place of education. The distance between the place of residence and the place of education means the shortest distance from the address of the property in which the beneficiary has a registered permanent residence to the address of the property in which the beneficiary is educated, determined by the online remote map.najji.si. If the place of education is different from the seat of the educational institution, the grantor shall provide information on the actual place of education. That's why, Madam Secretary, I'm interested in: Is a student who receives a state scholarship and chooses to stay in a student’s home during the year and not at the beginning of the school year entitled to an allowance for stay? On what legal basis do social work centres decide that a student receiving a state scholarship who is more than 25 km away from his place of residence and who chooses to stay at the place of school during the school year, this allowance does not belong, with an explanation that it is not an annual change, whereas, of course, his allowance is immediately suspended if he leaves the school home during the school year? Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Dr. Anya Kopač Dark, Minister, will answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u172	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President! Dear Member, Mrs Iva Dimic, thank you for the question. Dear Members and Members! The law on scholarship provides that a fellow resident who has a registered temporary residence in the place of education is entitled to an allowance if the place of residence is more than 25 km away from the place of education, if the rent cost is at least 65 euros per month if the grantor is not the owner or co-owner of the property. The residence allowance is €80 per month. The law expressly provides that a grantor who no longer fulfils the conditions for an allowance shall no longer be entitled to this supplement for the current school year as from the first day of the following month of the amendment. Under the law, the grantor is obliged to notify the grantor of any changes that take place during the current school year and could affect the scholarship ratio, including the circumstances in which the grantor no longer fulfils the conditions for the allowance. The grantor shall decide on the amendments as from the first day of the following month following the date of the amendment. In view of the above, the Centre for Social Work is therefore obliged to abolish the allowance for the stay of pupils who no longer resides in the student home at the place of education, as it no longer meets the legal conditions for receiving the supplement. Article 18 of the Act on Scholarships therefore provides a legal basis only for the withdrawal of an allowance for residence in the event that conditions are no longer met for it, but does not give, in the opinion of our legal service, a legal basis for granting it, provided that the conditions are fulfilled only later in the school year after the grant. It follows from the Grant Act that a grant is granted for the educational programme from the allocation to the expiry of the educational programme. Since the State grant is granted on the first day of the school year or on the first day of the following month after the application, the grantor may fulfil all legal conditions on that day, both for the grant of the grant and for the award of the individual allowance. A grantor who does not fulfil one of the conditions for granting a grant on a daily basis shall not be entitled to one. The same applies to additives. The only supplement that can be granted after the start of the school year is after 1. 9. or 1. 10. or after an already authorised right to a state grant for the current year is an allowance for scholarships with special needs. In this case, the law provides that when the personal circumstances of the grantor change, the granter shall, on the basis of a request from the first day of the following month, be entitled to this supplement for the current school year or year of study. Such provisions as regards the supplement to stay do not contain the law and therefore it is not possible to grant an allowance for stays during the year.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mrs. Iva Dimic, you will request a complete reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u174	Thank you very much. It's true, because we both found out exactly how it was, so it was unclear. I think that when changes are reported, even the legal basis, as you said, is immediately taken into account for the removal, but not for the assignment. But you have to understand, someone imagines that he will be able to manage all the stress and commitment during the course of the study. He's already got a scholarship. We're talking about the supplement when he goes to boarding school. And then he decides to do better, or he'll apply for boarding school for a change of schedule. Last but not least, the interns are pretty empty in Slovenia, there's no rush that they wouldn't. Then it seems quite unclear to me, because in fact, as you have determined, there is no basis for marriage not to be granted. So it is incomprehensible that someone who decides in March or in December, however, will be easier or not eventually due to weather conditions in winter time and will go to a student home or a student home, but I think that I also wanted to stress here the student home that this right is not granted to him, because it is not a new right. He already has the right to a scholarship, it is said, is kept in the CSD registry under the Act on Scholarship. It seems to me that this is in some way discriminatory to all those who actually want to exercise some right over the course of the year. However, the deprivation of rights is legally determined. It seems to me that, ladies and gentlemen, it is also an opportunity to consider such an assignment. I am sure that in Slovenia such roles do not know how much to look at and also to approach such changes, even in the light or in view of the fact that we have quite empty student homes in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Dr. Anya Kopač Dark, Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u176	Maybe we didn't get along. The answer that our lawyers have drawn up says that it is not a legal basis. So I wouldn't want it to look like that, I don't know, someone's making a selfish decision just like that at social work centers. The opinion is that there is no legal basis. The law on scholarships is, of course, possible to change, as all laws change, it was adopted in the National Assembly, but we do not separate whether something is not arranged in the way you wanted, or whether someone does not take note of it on his own. Here is the opinion of lawyers at the Ministry that there is no legal basis for allocation during the year. You must be aware, certainly, when we look at an individual and his right, of course, if he changes, as you mentioned, that it could logically be in some way to have this right. On the other hand, we are always very busy with the complexity of decision-making, the rights of public funds, and you need to know that any new situation is a new decision, a new burden. In fact, everything that happens during the year means so many and so many new decisions. And it is also necessary to decide how many of these changes we will take into account if we want to make a system of one-year decisions that will be automated and all of this Here we need to find the right measure between this and the scholarships are where we wait for entry, confirmations, we are tied to another system. [[...]] Additions, for example, can only be applied physically. This means that it is not possible then to fully automate and that it will also need to be inside and we are also discussing how to do in the system in order to be fully automated, which, of course, raises questions about different supplements. So things are complicated. In this regard, however, it would be true that there is no will in this regard, but of course legal change is always possible, as long as it is, unfortunately it is not possible to receive supplements during the year, except for those with special needs.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mrs Jelka Godec will ask the Minister of Health, Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u178	Thank you so much for saying that. Madam Minister, on your proposal or on a proposal from the UKC Ljubljana Institute Council last year, and then on your proposal to the Government, you confirmed the appointment of mags. Andraža Kopač as Director-General of UKC Ljubljana. You have also accompanied this appointment by saying that this is a very good cadre that will bring better business to UKC Ljubljana. Mr Kopač has also committed to helping this largest public institution to act positively by reorganising both staff and all other matters in the UKC Ljubljana, including financial resources. In the 2016 plan, they committed themselves to a positive conclusion, i.e. a financial one, that expenditure will not go beyond revenue. And at the beginning of this year or in the middle of last year, and at the end of the year in September it was clear that UKC Ljubljana would not function positively financially, but was also announced by your secretary at the time with 19 million losses. When we were in the Slovenian Democratic Party this year, which is a month ago, we wanted to deal with, or have addressed, the issue of public debt at the National Assembly, too, it was said that I was scaring people that there would be no 19 million losses. You weren't here, because obviously this topic doesn't seem important to you, but it's going to be smaller. Well, I don't think it's a month ago, and now a few days ago, it's kind of shocking news, even for you, that there's a 25-million-dollar loss in UKC Ljubljana. This means a 4-fold increase in loss at the end of 2015 at the end of 2016. At the end of 2015, the loss was 6 million, today 25 million, with the staff that you stood for when you were appointed, with the staff of Mr Kopač, the Director-General, who is supposed to contribute to making UKC Ljubljana work more positively. And I'm curious now, Madam Secretary: How do you comment on this loss in view of your recommendations that the financial plan for 2016 should be levelled? In view of the fact that you have six members from the 11th government in the world of the institution, once again, you have some influence, such as the proposals made by the Board of the Institute to the Director-General or management of UKC Ljubljana, what should it do? In addition to these 25 million losses, UKC Ljubljana received another 13 million in last year to cover losses, additional money to reduce waiting periods, things, you yourself said they were not as pink about waiting periods, so they failed. Why this four-time debt? Are they in charge of a new E.R., to improve the condition of the E.R., in all these departments where there are problems with doctors that they cannot work because the situation is unsustainable? Why did this debt occur and how do you comment on the 4-fold increase in the UKC Ljubljana debt in one year?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u180	Thank you for your input, Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly. Dear Members and Members! Dear Mrs Jelka Godec, thank you for the question. It has been proposed, I would say, some data or elements, so let me explain about the operation of UKC Ljubljana. In the first half of 2016, UKC Ljubljana did show a negative business outcome of €12.4 million, while at the same time assessing that at the end of the year it would amount to €19.6 million. The UKC has now completed its operations with EUR 25.5 million deficit. Why a greater deficit than the original estimates of €5.9 million? That needs to be explained. The fact is that, in 2016, they amounted to creating adjustments in the value of claims for outstanding claims from 2002 onwards, amounting to EUR 4.7 million, it is said that adjustments to claims or weaknesses for past years, which, of course, could not be calculated in the half-year, thus also this higher negative deficit or the result of the operation. And of course, additional repairs had to be made and write-offs of the underlying assets that were still in use. As a result, this deficit increased from the original estimate of 19.6 million euro to 25.4 million euro. Now allow some more reasons that are very crucial, why the UKC does business negatively. As I have already mentioned, i.e. the correction of claims from previous years, but further it must be said that the UKC carried out a number of interventions in 2016, namely for 3 000 568 patients for whom the health department or the Institute of Health Insurance for acute hospital treatment did not pay them, or if you want otherwise, for our payment system this means 6 000 580 weights. He also continued to perform specialist outpatient services and functional diagnostic services of EUR 10 million. While this is quite a practice in all past years, you will yourself know what happened to the health system when, since 2009, prices of services have been reduced by about 18%, which have been settled by healthcare providers. As a result, when I took over the resort, more than € 130 million of past losses were accumulated in health care providers because savings and services were not paid and health care providers provided these services in accordance with their rights for the needs of our patients. And that's what resulted. If you are now asking about the past year and activity, because such concrete measures are being taken, short-term and long-term at systemic level, one of the systemic measures is certainly a common public procurement, where by the end of this month we will jointly choose a supplier for all patient medicines for the next two years. Also, over the past few years, according to the amount of contributions collected, there has been an appropriate increase in service prices for all operators, and this has also partially improved the situation. However, the 420 million that the health system has lost is, of course, impossible to cover with the collection of money from contributions.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Mrs. Jelka Godec, will you request a further reply? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u182	Yeah, sure. Madam Minister, the excuses for 2002 are drawn from the fifth, because if, in early 2015, 2016 UKC, and before that, he did not know that he had claims for 2002 2.47 million, then I do not know what those governing structures in UKC Ljubljana are doing, so that they do not know. And now you come with such an apology. After making 3 thousand 568 more patients, as you yourself said, this is the same every year, so this is not the reason that the loss has increased four times, so from 6 million to 25 million. Your Government, you are constantly boasting that in health there is increasing money, increasing money, but the losses in public institutions are also increasing. Now I ask you, Madam Minister: What did you do at the Ministry of Health to keep the hospital material from paying off? What did you do, according to the statements made on our nationalist, where they publicly said they were violating public orders to make payments? What instructions did you give to the public authorities because this also brings losses? And a statement by Mr. Digger days ago. If the state financed losses in banks, it should also be in public institutions. But are we going to have directors like that, if we're going to make a loss and the state is going to pay? Already, patients, citizens, taxpayers pay material at higher prices than elsewhere in Europe, and we will now require them to pay for this poor public service business. In addition, your health reform is not at all clear where you will get money for the coming years and you are essentially transferring all these budgetary matters to the next governments. Madam Minister, say in concrete terms: What are your measures to avoid corruption, which also raises funding for material? What instructions did you give UKC Ljubljana to reduce these losses immediately? What will you do as an external factor to UKC Ljubljana? However, the total public procurement has not been successful, since 2015 you have medicines, now we are 2017. The joint procurements in your mandate have not yet made any improvements. I'm asking for an answer to this four-time loss increase. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mrs. Milojka Kolar Celarc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u184	Thanks again. The total public procurement has already brought savings, those that were first implemented and implemented. This other general public procurement that I have been talking about – we should thank all our suppliers who are happy to submit audit procedures and therefore such a delay. This is a picture and an opportunity in Slovenia that anyone who has the opportunity to complain and submit an audit. It seems to be of very great interest. But at the end of March, we hope that the selected suppliers will not complain again about the possibility of signing contracts, where there will be an impact on prices or on the cost of medicines. [[…]] As I have said many times, we have also saved 30% from emergency centres, construction by implementing a common public order and technical standards for standardised equipment. As you know, it was exhibited for the first time in Slovenia, close to EUR 400 million, over 90,000 items for all the materials purchased. Leaderships have been tasked with looking at all the codes, comparing the lowest prices they take as reference and going to negotiate with suppliers. Next thing. The needs of the population for secondary services are, of course, greatly increasing. The population is getting older, and we are becoming more aware of it, and the pressure on the second is increasing. There is also an increase in number or travel. A number of measures have been taken to help reduce and manage all material costs, expenditure on medicines, and a common public procurement for the most expensive equipment for all public health institutions. A register of the exploitation and acquisition of the most expensive equipment was prepared and made. So in these two and a half years, a series of things were done that, unfortunately, were not possible in the past. As I have already said, I have inherited all these accumulated losses, which are now being addressed by these measures, as the UKC has prepared a recovery programme and measures for which the institution will stay and monitor whether they will be carried out.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Mrs. Jelka Godec, you have a procedural request. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u186	My procedural proposal or request is that this be dealt with in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Madam Minister, I am afraid of what losses will be inherited after your term by the following ministers and the next directors of public health institutions, because what you are creating today is on the verge of a health breakdown or is, I can say, almost a breakdown. That's all I want to say. What you saved on public contracts wasn't in your mandate, that was in 2011. You yourself have said this and your praise in the media that it is at the time that you have already achieved what is nothing, because common public orders, as we know, under your leadership of the Ministry have not yet been completed at all, as you have said, due to complaints. Apparently, the invitation was so written that it was worse. As far as the register's concerned. Yeah. You have made a register finally after all the pressure, but this register is only within Slovenia. Have you seen what the European Union is up to? Now you will compare between hospitals, but this does not mean that we pay in Slovenia at the same price as we could if we looked at the European market. Madam Minister, you haven't even responded to the 25 million-dollar loss. You suggested some information that you inherited it, that it was bad, that you did it at the Ministry, and I don't know what measures to help improve the functioning of UKC Ljubljana and other public health institutions so they wouldn't be such a loss, but then you have the staff, and then you have the directors in these public institutions incapacitated, which I have to say is almost certainly true. At UKC Ljubljana, once again, under your watchful eye and, of course, other people, Mr. Kopač received this job, but we expected him, at least according to your words, that UKC will be doing positive business. Now, for the first time in the history of UKC Ljubljana such a loss, 25 million. And you don't have the answer to that. I am interested in who is behind you and Mr Kopač, which lobby, which is constantly in answer to my Members' questions, you answer that there are so many and so many lobbies here and I don't know what they are all about. Everyone's even running for office. So now I have the answer when I asked who these lobbyists are, 3.2 billion of them are in Slovenia, according to your words. And you told me that all of them are running for funds. Madam Minister, are you making fun of the citizens, of the Members, obviously I am, given that you are giving us such answers. And I think we're finally going to clear up in the National Assembly, Minister, who's behind you and who's behind this corruption, who's behind these losses of UKC Ljubljana, to support it, and in fact there's no, if I may say so, Halloway in the media over this 25-million-dollar loss. And your director's statements, I'm just going to say, your director of UKC Ljubljana, that this is to be borne by the state. Madam Minister, I look forward to action on the basis of such statements. Such a statement cannot be afforded by the Director. He's the first one in the ministry next to you that this loss shouldn't be or that it should be fixed immediately. But if the losses are due to the E.R., because of the departments where there are poor working conditions, that's another. But obviously in this case, it wasn't about that. It wasn't about improving the situation of UKC Ljubljana investments and so on, but it is, I'll just say, a little bit [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Mrs Jelka Godec, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Friday 24 March in the framework of the vote. Mr Bojan Podkrodšek will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food of Master Dejan Židan. Since there is no minister, I ask that you also define yourself to the way you answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u188	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, thank you for your word! In view of the absence of the Minister, I would like to define myself as a constitutional parliamentary issue. However, my question to the Minister in the absence concerns the programming perspective for rural development in 2014-2020. Last year I asked the minister a written question about farms, after the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia stopped farming in Slovenia until last year 2 000 300 farms. This means that, on average, two farms in Slovenia stop farming every day. I'm sure it's a disturbing information. We have also recently said that we are importing over a billion food values into Slovenia. I would therefore ask the Minister: How are we doing on this new perspective, on measures, given that it has been a while since 2014? There are growing doubts about this perspective, especially the comments and concerns of the smaller farm. The average farm in Slovenia is 6 to 8 hectares and for these farms, these measures are mostly or are not available in 2014-2020. Of course that's what he's worried about. As I said in the introduction, the average stops farming two farms in Slovenia, with these measures which are very difficult and, of course, smaller farms are not seen, of course this trend is increasing. So once again, I ask the Minister: How successful have we been? And I would also like the minister not to say that this information is classified. I think that because we live in an uncertain Europe, Slovenian farms have this very important information and this perspective is also extremely important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Hanžek will ask the Minister of Finance of Magi. Matei Vranictor Erman. Since the Minister is absent, I also ask you to define yourself to the way you reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u190	Thank you very much, Vice President. Since she's not, I'd like to ask her to answer in writing. Because she's not, I'm not gonna explain everything either. The question is related to the Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Succession, the Public Finance Fund established to implement an agreement on matters of succession and, in this regard, to enforce the rights and obligations of the Republic of Slovenia in the process of dividing property rights and obligations of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. The Fund carries out several different activities, in short: ensuring the exercise of the rights and the settlement of the obligations of the Republic of Slovenia in the procedures for the division of assets, coordination, cooperation of state authorities and other institutions in this area, coordinating the preparation of the negotiating baselines, coordinating the work of the delegation of the Republic of Slovenia in this area, coordinating the work of the working groups and providing appropriate professional support. The agreement on succession issues was signed on 29 June 2001 in Vienna, has several annexes, 2, 4, 6, 7. Here I am interested in questions on two subjects, on the subject of Annex D: Archives and Annex G: Private property and acquired rights. I therefore ask the Minister concerning Annex D: Archives: What is the composition of a working group for archives called the Government? How far are the negotiations on the transfer of archives related to the Republic of Slovenia from Belgrade? According to Annex G: Private property and rights acquired, I ask: What is the composition of the Commission's work on hereditary issues? I would like to know how much in the total amount of claims and liabilities of legal entities from Slovenia to legal entities from the successor countries of the SFRY, structured by country? If the settlement or otherwise concluded mutual claims and obligations between individual legal entities from Slovenia and legal entities from other successor countries are settled, how many such operations have been carried out, which legal entities are involved and to what extent? Thank you very much. I'd like to ask for a written answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u191	Thank you very much. You'll get the answer. Mr Matjaž Germany will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Dr Anji Kopač Dark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u192	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Good day to you all! We are very pleased to mention the crisis we have experienced in recent years, and we are talking about it in the past. I am talking about the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities at the Ministry to which I am referring, and it has been what has been, I will say, the most exposed in this area, because many times this ministry has been that ministry that has mitigated the consequences of the so-called crisis, which we have not been to this point, so that we can still say that we are in a position to do so today. But things are changing relatively well, and we, as politicians, have to be on guard that certain rights are being returned to those people who have been affected by the crisis, if I may say so, also taken away. In recent years, the social problem in Slovenia has been growing due to the economic crisis, the number of recipients of social transfers has increased, the number of socially excluded people has always been higher, and what is most important is needed and new forms of fighting the challenges of modern times are also emerging. So, Madam Minister, it has been possible to see in the media that you are very much in the field where you are in some way representing one of the major projects, I am talking about reorganising the centres. But I always feel that if I exclude the social committee, there's not enough talk about it in this room. Can you please explain to me as well as all your colleagues: What procedures are you in or what are ahead for us in this regard? I may have a more detailed question below. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Dr. Anya Digger Dark, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u194	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. Thank you for the question, Mr. German. Yes, it is true, socialism has faced many challenges in this crisis. The number of employees has been declining throughout this period, saving, and of course trying to protect the most vulnerable among us. On the European scale, we have done this relatively successfully, but, of course, each individual's distress is a chapter to himself and, of course, to those who are not adequately assisted, of course, they can rightly be disappointed with the role of the State in all of this. Social work centres are thus increasingly under the care of people. That's right. However, it is a fact that with the number of employees they have, it is very difficult to meet people's expectations, especially after a more individual approach that could offer in-depth advice and assistance based on social work as a dialogue process. That is why we are at the Ministry as one of the key projects that has been going on for a long time, but now more is being said in public because it is more in the final stage, it is the reorganisation of social work centres, which contains three interconnected projects. The first is the introduction of social activation programmes. With European funds, we introduce social activists, people who will put people in programmes. For the first time in our country, specific programmes, long-term and short-term programmes, which are intended primarily for those who are long-term recipients of financial social assistance, will be targeted. These are people who have been in a position where they have been and who have been in a position for a long time and cannot be included in the active employment policy programmes of the Employment Service. For the first time, we are putting into the system programmes or, if I say otherwise, a tool for social workers to help people learn how to fish, so that they can actually take a more active approach to rescue, and that there will not be a social work centre, above all, an institution where public aid is concerned, i.e. social transfers. This is an important project. The second is the introduction of informational decisions, all that is said to be very much that social work centres are burdened by administrative work. We want to introduce an information decision based on the model of the income decision, where it will actually be that we are going to have one year's rights, i.e. a child's allowance, a state grant, a kindergarten grant, a subsidy for lunch and food, and these applications are about 60% of the 750 000 that we will only make once and then, if we agree, we will get it home automatically once a year, just like an income decision. That's the other part. The third part is the change in the organisational structure of social work centres, where the existing 62 social work centres combine 16 areas, leaving all social work centres as an entry point, even strengthening them, this social work on the ground, so we do not take social work from these units. At the same time, we are setting up a joint service for the areas, so we will put out what is not related to social work from the social work centre in the area unit, if I say so at home. So we will jointly decide on accounting matters, human resources matters, IT will be shared, we will centralise common services to make more optimal transfers. On the other hand, the area will have a joint emergency service and other services which are already more or less regionally organised. And it is very important, however, that we also physically separate this administration from social work centres and work one unit at the level of the area. It is important in all things that we also strengthen the human resources centres for social work this year, both with professionals and with trainees. And one more thing I would like to point out is that it is very important that the profession participates in this project. Perhaps the way in which experts are connected in this process of reorganisation would be discussed below.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž German, you will request a complete reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u196	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. You've painted the whole picture very nicely. I understand this as a more modern measure that brings the services of social work centres closer to people, and it will practically not be an institution that we do not know how to approach, but people will have the feeling that this communication takes place directly and sometimes or repeatedly. A purely specific question, Madam Minister: What is the timing of this reorganization? The second part, which I am interested in, which I think is very important when we talk about communication, not only to people, to individuals, but in particular to communication with social workers: Are social workers specifically involved in this process? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Dr. Anya Digger Dark, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u198	It is important to say that the aim of all these changes is to provide a better service for people, this is the basic purpose. And all these projects are important steps on the path of modernisation, not the only one, we also introduce the method of work of the key person and a number of changes in the system, which of course do not happen overnight, in terms of today's decree, we introduce it and it will start tomorrow, but it is a process related to the training and education of social workers. So these things happen in the system. Perhaps you would point out just preparation, and the consultation group is part of the project all the time. This consultation group includes all representatives of the profession, i.e. the Faculty of Social Work, the Community of Social Labour Centres, the Social Chamber, the Social Workers' Association, the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Social Protection, we coordinate with them all the time, at the same time there was an open dialogue with the unions, with representatives of the municipalities, SOSOM, ZOSOM, ZMOS, all of these actors, before the introduction of the law, we have informed them, we have had a dialogue with them, and now, at the end of the public debate, where most of the comments we have also taken into account and are more closely supported by this process of reorganization, in fact, we are now expecting it, very far away, so that also these workshops or meetings on the ground are very welcome, because, in fact, when we tell people what will change when we reduce this fear of change, we are actually all supported. The time limit is that the Social Protection Act, which is the basis for changing the organisational structure of social work centres, would be adopted, I hope that in June in the National Assembly. Then it takes about six months if the clock is to be like this, it should be in practice 3. 1st of next year. Social activation is already under way, so calls for long-term and short-term projects are out. I believe these programmes will be available no later than September. Information decision, which is the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds, and changes are already in the public debate that will end, I think, 4. 4. and then he goes to the National Assembly. This will be in force because everything needs to be tested, it is indeed a big deal, we are talking about the 800,000 people affected by these decisions, the full production will be in September next year and all the tests will be carried out in the meantime. So much work is done in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Ms Anja Bah Žibert will ask the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Dr Anji Kopač Dark and Minister of Finance Mag. Matey Vranič Erman, who, of course, as you know, is absent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u200	Thank you very much, Chairman. I expect a written answer from the Minister of Finance. I had a dilemma about who to ask this question because it's a complex matter. We could also include the Minister of Economy here. However, today the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs is with us, and now my question will not be the same as before, nor will I ask about things for two years further because then the other government will be. I ask for today, for the people who live today and who obviously earn so little today, that the state or businesses must add to their minimum wage. I will therefore be very specific: I would like to know how many companies in Slovenia have done business last year with profits, so they also split the profits, and they had to add a minimum wage allowance to the workers? I'm also interested in: How many of these workers are there? Is it also a majority state-owned company? This morning we listened to the President of the Government, who said he did not want to live in such a Slovenia that does not help others. I will say otherwise, I do not want to live in Slovenia, which helps those who do not need help. However, I want to live in Slovenia, where we take care of our citizens and citizens, especially if someone shares almost two million profits, that workers do not receive an allowance for the minimum wage. I hope the Minister will be able to at least partially answer this question, but I will ask further questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Dr. Anya Kopač Dark, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u202	Thank you for asking. As you have already indicated, you probably know that the Ministry of Labour does not have this information. The only official information concerning the minimum wage in the private sector available is the data published on the ICPES website, and this is only about the number of recipients of the minimum wage calculated by the number of hours and not the actual number of recipients of the minimum wage. The basic mechanism for determining the height and harmonising wages is a collective agreement in which the State is not a partner and thus does not have an impact on the collective agreement itself. It is precisely for this reason and because collective agreements provide for a very low starting salary, the State has adopted the Minimum Wages Act as a legal correction of the wage policy and has fixed a minimum amount for the whole country. Taking into account the provisions of the minimum wage area in the Minimum Wages Act, workers are entitled, in the case of full-time work, to receive wages at least at the minimum wage level, where any work allowances under specific working conditions arising from the allocation of working hours, that is, overtime, night work, work on Sundays and work on holidays and working days after the law are exempt from the minimum wage. Moreover, it is not possible to include in the minimum wage the costs that the employer is obliged to pay to the worker, for example, the cost of food between work, transport to and from work, travel costs, and other benefits from the employment relationship, such as annual leave, discharges, jubilee awards. The amount of the minimum wage, which is the sole responsibility of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, which is determined in accordance with the law and is coordinated for each year at least with the increase in the price of living needs, and also takes account of wage movements, economic conditions or economic growth and employment trends, represents the lowest possible monthly salary that belongs to full-time employees even if its remuneration under a collective contract or contract of employment is reduced. In these cases, the employer must add a difference to the minimum wage. In summary, the Ministry of Labour is responsible for determining the minimum wage, which is the basic basis for determining the amount of the minimum wage. Otherwise, wage policy in the private sector is a matter of collective agreements and, as such, the Ministry of Labour does not have data on the amounts of minimum wages paid to the data available in this matter are available in the APES. This can be answered in accordance with the powers of the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, do you request a supplement to your answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u204	Yeah. Minister, then I'll ask you a different question: Do you think, given the social benefits that those who are home, for example, do not get up in the morning and go to work, normally, that the worker is working, I will now tell you, even in exchange for working in difficult, health-threatening conditions, that he works even at the holiday, that he has 20 hours of overtime done, that he has to get 20 euros in allowances for minimum wage and that he goes home at the end of the month with 620 euros, with all that I have said? Now tell me, dear Minister, you who only run the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs: Can such a person be classified as living above the threshold of poverty or below the threshold of poverty? Ladies and gentlemen, I was approached by these workers, while the company shared 2.4 million profits with the owners and said in a public statement that this was already close to the record of the purchaser. Now you tell me, on the other hand: Is it better to advise such a worker to go to work to give his health daily, because conditions are dangerous, or is it better to stay home and get the 500 euros, because he will still get the rest of the supplements and the lower kindergarten more help at school, and elsewhere? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Dr. Anya Kopač Dark, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u206	No, I don't think that's right. Therefore, in 2010, Pahor's government, which you very often criticised, raised the minimum wage, was one of the highest, by 23%. We did this because we believe that workers who work have to get the height of wages at some decent level. The criticism was on your part to destroy jobs and raise unemployment. Already in this mandate, a law was passed, where I supported the law and also the Government, where all the allowances from the minimum wage were excluded. You will recall that this year's debate on raising the minimum wage, which went beyond the minimum framework, was, on a proposal from the Minister of Labour, the same as it was. So we're trying to maximize the minimum wage to raise. I should be taller. The fact is that the problem is the average wage, the problem is that the net amount is €80 000 and that two thirds of the salary in the Republic of Slovenia is below this average salary and that, of course, when we look at these parameters, you know where we are, and that is unfortunately. I hope that we will achieve a minimum wage in the amount that will be absolutely above the poverty threshold. Sorry, we're out of two euros or three this year. But I will be happy to support the SDS next time we raise the minimum wage.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Mrs. Anya Bah Žibert, you have a procedural request. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u208	Notwithstanding the fact that I did not get that answer, how many workers, I propose a public debate. I hope she's supported by everyone. Dear Minister, you don't want to hear what I'm asking you. These people don't get minimum wage. These people get a minimum wage supplement. You can raise it three more times. [[advertising from the hall]] No, no, Minister, the fact is, obviously, there's a way to make laws, because I don't understand why they don't pay the employee a minimum wage on the basis of that kind of profit. And of course, I absolutely think that in the Slovenian Democratic Party, however, it will be difficult to say that we did not support good projects. Let's take a look at your list of how unemployed there are today, and see how much work has been done in the time of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Look how many young people are fleeing abroad today, how many are under your government. So I think you'd better listen to us and support our proposal, because, as it is said, during the time of the government, Janez Janša was really honey and milk. I'm talking about this and maybe this is a question for you to ask a little bit about Forum 21, what these directors are doing. It's exploitation, yeah, it's exploitation. And the fact is that such profits, when shared, could nevertheless also propose marriage solutions, that when it comes to the sharing of profits, not for a positive business, but to ensure that the minimum wage is paid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Friday in the framework of the votes. Mr Jožef Horvat will ask Mr Anton Persak, Minister for Culture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u210	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister for Culture, Mr Anton Peršak, this year we mark the 145th anniversary of the birth and the 60th anniversary of the death of Slovenian architect Jožet Plečnik. This year, 2017, is Plečnik's year. According to my understanding, Plečnik's architecture is an important part of the people's identity. He crossed borders with his opus and became one of the most important architects of modern world architecture. If I visit the website of the Ministry of Culture, I am disappointed to find that at least there is no belt on Plečnik's Year. If there is a link on the website to the Vision of Slovenia – Slovenia 2050, which is, of course, nothing wrong, I would expect information on the entry of the Plečnik architecture into the list of the world heritage of Unesca. Mr. Minister, that's why I'm asking you: How is the procedure for entering Plečnik's architecture into the Unesco World Heritage List? What's the timeline for this project? With this, Plečnik's architectural works certainly promise to improve the protection, presentation and development of Plečnik's heritage in the future. Mr. Minister, I'm also interested in: Which Plečnik architecture will be the subject of an enrollment on the list of the world heritage of Unecso? Will Plečnik’s church of the Lord’s ascension in Godojina in Prekmurje be included on this list? Thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Pershak, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u212	Thank you for your word. Dear Member, Mr Horvat, Slovenia and the Czech Republic have been participating since the end of 2011 in the preparation of this project for the nomination of the building and urban works of architect Jožet Plečnik for registration on the UNESCO list of world, cultural and natural heritage. The coordination of this work is carried out at the ministries of culture in both countries in cooperation with national working groups and with experts in the field of cultural heritage protection. In Slovenia, there has been a formal working group with representatives of the Department of Cultural Heritage, the Museum of Architecture and Design, the Museum and galleries of Ljubljana, the Ljubljana City Museum, the Ljubljana City Municipality and external experts since September 2013. It's a very complex, professional organizational feat. Slovenia and the Czech Republic have harmonised the form for the so-called trial list, which is a necessary step ahead of the nomination, successfully submitted in January 2015. We expect the submission of all Slovenian-Czech documentation in Paris in the beginning of 2018. The agreement is that everything must be ready by the end of this year. I'm not going to describe the procedure because I'm probably running out of time. It is very complicated, but it can later, if necessary, include, in particular, ICOMOS, an international association for monuments and monuments protection. The procedure may lead to four possible outcomes. One is, of course, the ideal one to accept the application at the time of the first submission, so the entry is confirmed. It can be delayed for one year. It can be postponed, which means that the procedure should in fact be repeated. But he can refuse. Very briefly. The working title of our project, if I may say so, is the transnational nominations of Plečnik's building and urban works, which consists of several works in Ljubljana and Prague, because of the connection with urbanism. The proposal of the Slovenian side includes Plečnik's architecture and spatial arrangements of the Church of St. Michael in the Black Village of Bar, promenade along the banks and bridges of the river Ljubljanica, Vega's street with the National and University Library, the cemetery of Žale, the Garden of All Saints and Churches of Sveta Frančiško Asiške in Šiška. The Czech side, as is known, has included the Church of the Most Holy Heart of Jesus in the vineyards of Prague, not the work that is in the Hradčany because the Hrads are already as a whole on the Unesco list. The proposed Plečnik architecture includes, says both pure architecture and urban solutions, and this is in fact also one additional reason why no other architecture is involved, including the Bogojina Church, because it is only an architectural monument and not an urban solution. There are even certain concerns about how the area is arranged around the church. This nomination, as it is said, focuses on the architect's work in Ljubljana and Prague, and this, as it were said, on both aspects of urbanization and only architectural solutions. That's basically it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath, you're requesting a complete response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u214	Mr. Secretary, thank you very much for a fairly precise answer. This initiative of mine regarding the Plečnik Year belt on the Ministry of Culture's web portal is indeed welcome. I'd like to see your people make it in the future. I think we should be proud of Plečnik, on Plečnik's year, on his architecture, because he is the architect of the world format. Why don't the Slovenians brag about it? I'm also interested, Mr. Secretary: Do you have sufficient budgetary resources provided for the work of the working group on which the maximum burden of this project lies? I can say and believe that you have an ally in the Members of New Slovenia in this project, now it is possible to actually reach the goal that, as you said at the beginning of 2018, we will also play a role in Paris. Now, after my perception, things are getting a little bit better, and in the past, I was very worried about Plečnik, especially about this project – you probably know more yourself – there were certain currents, of course also political, when it was said, leave Plečnik, Plečnik is a belt, Plečnik is no development and so on. I believe, and here you have my support, that this project will actually be implemented by the end of the year, and then, of course, the decision will be made on the side of UNESCO, what will be the fate of this role. Thank you very much for the additional answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u216	Yes, thank you very much for the initiative. While we have published some information in this regard, we have also published the year of Plečnik, not in the way you propose. That's what I wrote down. As regards the financial resources for the work of this working group, there is no problem. It is true, however, that we do not have enough resources for any additional groups as well as for other purposes, because good ideas for entering the UNESCO World List of Cultural and Natural Heritage in Slovenia are yet another thing. Unfortunately, for the time being, we can drive one or two candidates at a time, usually in cooperation with local initiatives and local communities. Slovenia is very rich as far as cultural heritage is concerned. We all know there's more to this enrollment. Thank you very much for your concern. I also agree that the pace has not been optimal in the past, but it is now, I must say, a very firm decision by the Government as a whole. The President of the Government strongly supports this initiative, and he has made a special commitment in Prague to do so by the end of this year.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Mr Danilo Anton Ranc will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnificent Nutrition. Diane Jedhan. The Minister is absent, so please define yourself to the answer method. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u218	President, thank you for your word. I request an oral response at the next meeting. The Honourable Minister of Mag. Dejan Židan, forests are one of the largest treasures in Slovenia. The annual increase is about 9 million cubic pounds of wood. We could cut up about 6 million cubic meters a year and turn it into high value added products. In 2016 we cut 6 million cubic meters, but unfortunately we exported 4.5 million Circus without value added. In the last 20 years, concessions granted to private individuals have resulted in profits from state forests to concessionaires, while the Slovenian timber industry has collapsed, the links between forestry and the timber industry have been cut short. As a result, the Slovenian wood industry almost dried up and in 20 years we lost about 40,000 jobs. An economic damage of €8.8 billion was incurred at the level of a one-year budget. Slovenia has become a colony for the exploitation of forests, and Slovenian logs have mostly ended up in firehouses and wood processing plants in neighbouring countries. In Slovenia, we managed the most difficult forestry work due to numerous injuries, with the budget burdened both for roads and for health care. For these reasons, we have agreed in the Coalition Treaty that we will break this practice by establishing a forest-forest chain. With the project approach and the inter-resortive cooperation of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, we have adopted the Law on the Management of State Forests, where, in addition to forest management, it is intended to establish a forest and forest chain for the production of products of higher added value in wood collection and production centres. Prior to the adoption of the law, we inter-resorted the business model of management with state forests, which set up wood collection and production centres, which are regionally located according to forestry and available infrastructure. Mr. Minister, with regard to the implementation of the Law on the Management of State Forests, I ask you: Why does the management of SDG not fully implement the law and focus primarily on Article 1 of the forest and forest chain, cutting, harvesting and sale of logs, while wood collection and processing centres are not established and are not foreseen in the company strategy? Why does the SDG Supervisory Board and the management of the company not take into account the origins of the company's strategic plan adopted by the Government as the SDG Assembly? How will you act as a member of the SDG Assembly in order to implement the Law on the Management of State Forests and the starting point for the development of the SDG strategic plan in the points and members that provide for the establishment of wood collection and processing centres? Why is it not taken into account the business model of a company which has been intersectorally coordinated? Prior to the adoption of the law, its harmonisation was also a condition for the proposal to be sent to the National Assembly for consideration. Mr. Secretary, I thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u219	Thank you very much. The Minister will answer to you at the next meeting. Ms Susana Lepi Šimenko will ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Zdravek Počivalski, and the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food mags. Day of the Jews.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u220	Thank you for your word, chairman. All present, welcome! Haloze. We have talked about them many times in the National Assembly. The greekly, hilly area, which extends along the border with Croatia and somehow reaches over seven municipalities. The municipalities, which are largely under the average of Slovenian development, move around between 76% and 88% of the development of Slovenia's average. This is the area of Lower Podravja, where it is still visible what Slovenia brings about uneven development, uneven regional development. In particular, we have talked about inadequate agricultural policy many times. Finally, this area is mostly agricultural. And that's why the subject is even more important. Let me remind you that it will be a slow two years since we adopted a decision at the joint meeting of the Committee on Economic and Agriculture to prepare comprehensive measures for the integrated development of the Haloz area. I am quite on the ground after the various ends of Haloz and I must say that the positive results in this area unfortunately do not appear. The Minister of Agriculture is absent. I would like to ask for his written reply, which is of particular interest to me: What are the results of the measures adopted for the Haloz area by the Ministry of Agriculture? I'm interested in the results. As I mentioned, it has been two years since we started this topic in the National Assembly, but of course this issue has been on the table for a long time. Dear Minister of Economy, I am interested in: What have you done in the last two years to develop this area, to improve the economic and, of course, consequently, the social situation in this area? Why is regional development not primarily encouraged in areas that are essentially below the Slovenian average, such as Haloze? Why are these areas not dealt with as a matter of priority? I also want to know: What have you done to develop tourism and a small economy in Haloz? These are two topics that we highlighted at the joint meeting of the Committee on Economy and Agriculture at that time in April. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, Zdravko Restoršek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u222	Madam Member, President, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! Thank you for asking. In response, I will limit myself to economic measures and for agriculture you will receive a response from a colleague. In opening, I must say that the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology does not have any additional financial resources to address the development problems of areas such as Haloze. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 24 of the Law on the Promotion of Harmonised Regional Development, which was last amended and supplemented last year, border programming areas are priority areas of all development policies. They shall be taken into account in the preparation of sectoral programmes and in the tendering criteria applied throughout the country. The fact is that the Act also provides that budgetary users use part of the financial resources to invest from border areas of concern or to set additional selection points for projects from those areas. This is the first concrete measure that we have taken since this meeting, which you mention, even after. I must say that most of Haloz is included in the border problems of the area, except the municipality of Makola. The area’s cross-border problems are also highlighted in the Ministry’s financial incentives programme for the period 2015 to 2020. The Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, in accordance with the Act on the Promotion of Coherent Regional Development in 2016, awarded additional points to undertakings from border areas where it made sense. So we positively discriminated against them. We have done so in the areas of entrepreneurship, tourism, timber and regional development. Let me also say that in 2017 we are planning calls for companies from border areas to receive additional points, and these specific calls also have specific dates and amounts this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Mrs. Susana Beautiful Šimenka, do you request a supplement to your answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, it is true that there are no special means to save the Haloz area and I think it is right to point out that all the parliamentary parties have agreed and we have unanimously decided that concrete and comprehensive measures must be taken for the Haloz area. Everything. When an amendment is tabled in the National Assembly for the adoption of budgets where specific funds would be allocated to the Haloz area, unfortunately the amendment of such support was not granted in 2015 or 2016. And it's precisely these resources that I believe could improve the situation in this area a little bit. I really regret this reception, not to mention the mistake that came from the government when you actually put Haloze in the Pomura region. So I really wish it hadn't come to that. I am specifically interested in, you mentioned positive discrimination and the allocation of additional points in the selection of projects. I want to know: How many companies, how many projects have these additional points received so far, specifically from these seven municipalities in the Haloz area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, Zdravko Restoršek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u226	We have almost 20 calls made this year. Of these calls, I will mention, in particular, those whom I consider to be present for this area and one which is specifically written for this. I will start with a public invitation to tender or direct confirmation of the operation of the economic business infrastructure for this year, €11 million, and this year we have 4 million planned payments. The invitation to tender is due to leave this month or at the beginning of the following month. This is a call for congregations, a well - known investor, where all congregations in this area have priority. At this point, I just don't know how many of them are going to apply, but they have the option and will be dealt with as a priority in front of others. Then there is a very specific call for tourism capacity in problem areas, where this area is directly accounted for by 3 million 800 000. The call will take place in September of this year. It is said that this is specifically for all areas of concern, including Haloze. Then the invitation to tender is to promote the development of the integrated products of the tourism economy, 7 million in April of this year. It is for everyone, it is only a point-blank advantage of this area. Public call to promote the development and use of new business models to facilitate integration into global value chains, 3 million, June of this year. And the incentives for the growth of timber companies, this seems important to me, and small and medium-sized enterprises worth over 5 million, even in March of this year. We particularly encourage entrepreneurs from problem areas to apply in this area, but of course there is another problem here, because the absorption power in these areas is lower and I would even agree with you that this positive discrimination itself will not be enough and that we will have to keep looking at, find some additional measures that will encourage economic activity in this area, especially in the area of small and medium-sized enterprises, although the amount here alone is not small, but that will not be enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Dr. Jasna Murgel will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Dr. Anji Kopač Mrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Dear Minister Anja Kopač Mrak, at our field meeting in the lower Podravje, I visited the company Sunček on Ptuj, where representatives of the Sunček Association for the whole of Slovenia have also highlighted the problem of calculating protective allowances for people with disabilities, in a way that the practice at social work centres is different to take into account, account or not to account, for example, even those payments for work received by security guards in the working centres. These are their statements, and I do not have any concrete decisions now. That's what they said they'd get us, too, but I believe you can get information on that yourself. Even this is to take into account that someone has not applied for monetary social assistance, as it is and is included, in the calculation of the protective allowance. I want to know: Have you noticed at the Ministry that social work centres are coming to such different practices, different decisions? It was even stated that in similar cases the same social work centre issued different decisions, i.e. different decisions on the amount of the protective allowance. I want to know: Have you already received any information from social work centres and can the ministry do anything here? Can any guidance be given to unifying the practice in this area, since, for beneficiaries of this protective supplement, especially for disabled persons who are particularly vulnerable groups, it is important that each euro received from this protective supplement is important? In this way, I wanted to contribute and encourage or get an explanation as to whether anything could be done in this area, which, of course, is within your purview. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Dr. Anya Kopač Dark, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u230	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Mrs. Jasna Murgel, thank you for asking. The applicable law on the exercise of rights from public funds, which regulates the scope of the protective allowance, clearly sets out who is entitled to receive the protective allowance and what is considered to be income in determining the eligibility of the protective allowance and what is not considered as income. The protective allowance is thus justified by a single person who meets certain conditions under the law and his monthly income does not exceed the price currently of EUR 476.87. It may also be a recipient of a protective allowance if the single person has his own income. In this case, the protective allowance shall be fixed at a difference in the amount. In the case of a family, the protective allowance shall be set at the level of the difference between the family's price of security and income. In doing so, we do not take into account cash savings or savings of up to EUR 2 000 500 or EUR 3 000 500 in the family. When determining the eligibility of a protective allowance, among other things, income and assets shall also be checked to see whether the applicant can provide survival through those who are obliged to survive it. There is no mention of the award mentioned in the question referred to in the Member State of the statutory exemption for receiving a protective allowance, which is therefore considered to be income in determining the eligibility of the protective allowance, without taking into account the reimbursement of transport costs and the cost of eating. The social work centres are mentioned above, thus taking into account the fact that they are familiar with Maximo's computer application or so-called base where the Ministry of Social Work gives guidance on implementation. In this regard, an explanation was given to the centres at the base and there should be no different practice on this basis. We also point out that in the preparation of the amendment to the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds, which is currently in public debate, you are already familiar with it, and one of the proposals in the paper is that this award is not regarded as income in determining eligibility for a protective allowance and also financial social assistance, not, subsidies, rents, institutional protection exemptions and the determination of contributions to the payment of a family assistant. We try the supplements that an individual receives with some work, that this does not affect their level of income and that they would not be recipients of monetary social assistance or a protective allowance, especially those with which we want individuals to activate. We have a similar discussion right now with regard to the social activation allowance, because, of course, if all of this is taken into account in income, then it affects whether someone is willing to accept a different form of work. In short, we are looking for solutions and we would basically like all the supplements that are not in some way related to some income from a permanent activity, but point to some activity of an individual who is not connected to the day-to-day work or whatever, that these different rewards, which is not even income from work, are not counted as income. I believe this will be with the novel ZUPJS, which will be quickly ahead of you, that this story will be solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Dr. Jasna Murgel, do you request no? [[…]] Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Žnidar will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnificent Nutrition. Diane Jedhan. The minister's gone. Please define yourself to the way you answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u232	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would like Minister Dejan Židan to give me an oral answer at the next meeting of the National Assembly. And I ask the distinguished minister: What measures will the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food take to reduce the external trade deficit in agriculture? Because the deficit, this is the difference between imports and exports, is one billion, a slight less, a few million less, about 980 million. If I round up to a rough estimate, this difference is almost one billion – we import more in agriculture than we export – to reduce this difference, because this difference has a significant impact on the financial situation of our country, because the billion is very large money. It is possible to take measures in both directions: both in the direction of increasing exports and how to reduce imports. It is precisely the intention of the measure to reduce this financial deficit to the Ministry itself. Thus, with subsidies that we know are for different purposes in agriculture, for different purposes and so on, we could choose, I don't know, ten articles that we actually import or cause the biggest deficit. I believe, however, that it is not possible to produce all food and other agricultural products in Slovenia, such as Southern fruit and so on. However, I believe that exports can significantly improve this external trade balance in agriculture or make a profit to domestic farmers to do so. There are more than one measure; if I take an example in primary schools. In primary schools, the menu is dominated mainly by fruits, southern fruits. We know that all the fruit in the South is imported. In short, a number of measures can be taken to make this external trade deficit better, and I expect measures here.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Mr Luka Mesec will ask the Minister of Health, Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u234	Thank you for your word! Madam Minister, in the United Left about ten months ago, we put into the legislative procedure a novelty of the Law on the Health Relevance of Foods and Substances that come into contact with them, with which we wanted to limit the trans fat content of food to a maximum of 2% of all fatty acids. Both of them, I think we know very well how much trans fats are harmful to health, how much their consumption is related to the development of cancers and blood-vascular diseases, which, among other things, are the main cause of death among Slovenians. According to domestic, trans fats are toxic and the human body does not need them scientifically in even the smallest amount. At the time, you rejected our law as non-systemic, which is or is becoming the standard excuse of the coalition to reject all opposition laws. However, at that time you promised to reform the Food Health Act, which would also include a ban on excessive trans fat content. Your Secretary of State has promised that the law will be ready by the end of last year. That all you need is research data from the Institute for Nutritionist, which was in the final phase at the time. On 21 October, the results of the Institute came and also in a letter from your Ministry of State dated 21. 11. you wrote that you would send a proposal for a new Law on Food Health and a proposal for a regulation on maximum trans fat content for notification to the European Commission in December 2016. The European Commission should then have three months to respond to this proposal or make any comments. Today is March 20th. Your systematic reform of this law or that it was at least sent to the European Commission, we have not heard anything, so I am interested: At what stage is the law-making process? I want to know: Why does this delay with such an important thing for health, which, however, was achieved by a considerable consensus already when we put the law into consideration, among all the parliamentary groups, whether it was a coalition or an opposition? I would like to answer both questions, saying: Where are your marriages, and why is it taking so long? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Mary Milojka Kolar Celarc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u236	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! It is true that what you say is true, and I will give a brief answer at the outset, and then explain that a proposal for amendments to the Health Act on food and products and substances coming into contact with these foods is prepared at the Ministry of Health and goes to a public debate in April. There is also a technical regulation to be sent to the European Commission in accordance with the procedures for notification. However, I have to say why this partial delay occurred — because of the fact that we obviously needed data on the content. As a result, the Ministry of Health has also supported the Trans fat research project in food and its population introduction – public health implications chosen under the call for a public research agency. In fact, after our activities and activities in other countries have been determined that it will not be possible in a relatively short time to adopt Directives on trans fat content in foodstuffs at European level, which would essentially be the most effective measure for all the population, for all Member States, of course we have decided to try to regulate this at national level. And not on the basis of the partial results of this study, by which we obtained data on the preliminary risk assessment of the content of these trans fats in foodstuffs, we have prepared these proposals for laws or technical regulations. Let me say that these preliminary results have shown that the introduction of trans fats for the general population in Slovenia does not pose a significant risk to public health, but that, of course, the content of these fats in prepacked foods poses an increased risk mainly for individual population groups. We know that these are waffles and these things where children eat the most of these food groups. As I have already said, the law goes to public hearing in early April. Let me say that it is coordinated with both the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, or the Department of Food Safety, Veterinary and Plant Protection, which is very important. The amendments to the law are also subject to expert review and are in line with the experts who carry out this research project. There was also informal coordination with representatives of the food industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Mr. Luka Moon, are you requesting a supplement to the answer? No, no, no. Thank you very much. Mr Uroš Prikl will ask the Minister of Health, Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u238	Mr Vice President, thank you so much for your words! Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, Minister! It has recently entered into force the Act on the Limitation of the Consumption of Tobacco Products. The law, as we know, was adopted with 100% support from the Desus Group, which of course is commendable. People are aware of the danger and harmfulness of smoking and the resulting exposure to tobacco smoke. And that's right. The ban on smoking in closed rooms has never seemed disputed to us in Desus; even more, at our initiative, that is, at the initiative of Members of the Desus Group, a ban on smoking was also introduced into the law in private transport of means, namely in cars, in the presence of minors and children. After a good week of validity of the law, however, in practice problems and problems experienced by innkeepers who have their own restaurants located or located in passages, hiking and similar locations have already begun to arise, and they have local gardens set up, so called guest gardens. They have already been visited by the first inspectors, this time, fortunately with warnings that they should immediately remove ashtrays from the table, and that smoking is not allowed in the guest gardens in the passages and passages. Minister, I therefore ask you a very simple and uniform question. Of course, there will be no insinuation here to be a representative of smoking. I've already told you in the beginning what I think about it, even though I have a habit of lighting a cigarette here and there, and I'm going to stop it for a while. I promise. I ask you very simply and unequivocally: Does the new anti-tobacco law bring any news concerning the arrangements for guest gardens in these passages, passages, approaches, and so forth? Do we have any small - print texts in our marriage? In other words: What does the implementation of the new law on smoking in guest restaurants in passages, transitions and approaches mean?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u240	Another good day, all of it. Thank you for that question. Indeed, as you note, Mr Prikl, with Slovenia's new tobacco legislation has undoubtedly taken a huge step forward in efforts to prevent chronic diseases and improve health for all, especially for our young generations. We have also achieved our objectives in the strategic document National Health Plan, Together for the Health Society, adopted by this esteemed National Assembly. We have also joined the most advanced countries, which are implementing comprehensive and effective measures to limit smoking as the most important credible risk factor for many diseases and deaths. I am particularly pleased that the law was adopted unanimously and, as you said, also with the additional amendment of your parliamentary group, which we have gladly accepted. Let me say that, with regard to the definition of closed space, there has been no change since the previous regime. Thus, before or until now, the law in force did not allow smoking in closed areas, but in the previous law the content of what is publicly closed space may not have been sufficiently clearly defined in the articles themselves. That is why we have written this definition in more detail in this law. Let me say that these definitions have been further and widely explained by the very explanation of the law that these definitions have been coordinated — and not repeatedly — both with all ministries and with the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. As a result of all these additional coordinations, the transitional period has also been extended, for example, in which sellers have to ensure that tobacco and tobacco products are not visible and accessible at the place of sale and this previous period has been extended from 6 to 12 months. Therefore, as far as the content of the law itself is concerned, nothing has in fact changed since the previous law, except that the area has now been very clearly defined. This was agreed and in line with the agreement with the two Chambers, as I have already said, but in order to clarify the explanation of all articles, it would not have occurred in itself to implement unnecessary misunderstandings in such a case as you state.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Mr Uroš Prikl, please, you have a request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Of course, I am the first of those who care about taking a step forward in preventing these chronic diseases. I am also in favour of working on an educational level, especially with young people, especially in order to avoid smoking. Let me remind you two here. Firstly, the Supreme Court issued a judgment in 2013 in which it attached to the opinion of the innkeepers that the guest gardens located in the passages are not covered by the smoking regime – so that these gardens are not regarded as a closed space, since they are not closed more than half of the area of the surrounding walls. As a result, I would expect the inspectors to respect this, that there is no discretion here, that there is no doubt, and, as you said, that they strictly respect the letter of the law and that all these little guests – we are talking about small innkeepers, we are not talking about some multinationals who are having trouble breaking through from day to day – that they are not suffering the damage that they previously could or could not have planned. Again, I will remind you here that we have been explicitly assured in the Group of Members that in this area, in the regulation of winter, no, not winter, so these guest gardens in the passage, in the approaches and so on, there will be no – in fact what you have just said – no further changes will be made, and that there will be no fine print on this path as it has been so far, this regulation will of course go on. Again: my personal opinion is, of course, to work on education, on convincing young people in particular, as I have already said, and certainly not with some prohibition, not with a root and a stick. However, it is also necessary to keep in mind the hospitality sector; those who are difficult to live day to day and thus close some doors and the opportunity to earn money, and consequently their existence and the existence of their families. Thank you so much for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u244	Once again, this was also not a sufficiently clear definition of the definitions and articles of the previous law. As you said, there was no small text or explanation at the time, and that is why we, through the relatively long coordination of the period, have both coordinated this work with the Chamber of Commerce and Crafts and that now it is a matter, would say very clear and uniform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Mr Andrej Čuš will ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology Mr Zdravek Počovalski and the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anji Kopač Dark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u246	Thank you for your word. Dear Madam Minister, Mr. Secretary! Last week, in Ormož on Thursday, I organised a round table on the possibility of survival and survival and the existence of the Slovenian countryside, as well as the creation of conditions for new jobs in the countryside; specifically said and meant, of course, in the municipality of Ormož. Perhaps both as ministers know what is currently going on in the Ptuj-Armora region, or specifically in the Ormož municipality, when in one of the multinationals, we can say, in the area of the production of glasses, Safilo, due to the reorganisation of the work there is the dismissal of employees who, of course, according to the owners, are somehow redundant workers. In the final phase, employment will only be lost this year or at present by 230 of the 880 employees. You probably know that Ormož is a fairly large municipality in relation to the Ptuj-Ormo region and also in relation to the Podravska statistical region. This, of course, will also mean great social distress for the entire region, not only ptujsko-ormoška, but, if we are very specific, especially the hardship in the Ormož municipality, where many families will be deprived and affected. On the other hand, not only is there a reorganisation of the business process, there is also the dismissal of many employees who have recognised disability rates, some individuals are even in line with the U.S.R. five years to retirement, but we have also heard on Thursday at the round table in case you have five years to retire, when somehow you can no longer be fired, but the staff service has now submitted one such decision. I hope, of course, that all these anomalies and problems can finally be resolved in Ormož, and, of course, I would also like to ask in particular about attracting foreign investments. I must be honest that on the round table there was also one of the municipal councillors of the Modern Centre Party, I think also the president of the municipal committee who said that she could not sleep for three days because some new investments and job opening were promised for the Ormož municipality. Otherwise, at the round table, she was not specific and did not tell what was going on, but I think today is more than a suitable opportunity to present it to the population, especially Ormožanka and Ormožan. On the other hand, we ourselves know that we have lost quite a few good opportunities for service in our region. I would only remind you of IBM, which wanted to establish a call center, but now it is being established and built in Zagreb, and Magna Steyr could also build this in Ormož and not in Hotch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Zdravko Restoršek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u248	Mr. President-in-Office. Mr Member, thank you for the question. Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! First, on these two last issues. The fact is that, as a ministry and as a minister, I have been working for quite some time on how to revitalize the former area where the Ormož Sugar Factory was, because it is our deep belief that the most regulated business zone in Slovenia with energy, infrastructure. In short, we have everything there and in this area we are trying to get a foreign direct investor. I am not talking about revitalising previous production, but I must say that we cannot put any final proposal on the table right now, but we are working intensively on this and I believe that we will do something in this area as well. The second thing you've mentioned at the end of this conversation is that I have to deal with it. With IBM – I can't agree that we've lost anything. It is that we have participated as much as possible in this project for Maribor, that it is not so much a job, it is simply a call centre, but it would not be a question of controversy, because we are working on other things that I hope will give results. The Ormoža area is an integral part of the area within the framework of the Law on the Development Support of the Pomur region. This area is also subject to the measures provided for in that law. The unemployment rates of 2016 for the Ormož Administrative Unit area did not show a critical situation, of course the unemployment rate was increased, in any of the months 2016 it did not exceed 14 %, and the registered unemployment rate of 17 % or more is one of the key criteria for defining a particular area as a problem area. Due to the problem of the dismissal of employees in Safilo Ormož, we will consider, within the Government, the possibility of extending the Law on Development Support to the Pomurje region, which is also the position of our ministry at the end. Although the proposal to extend the law has already been tabled within one of the parliamentary groups of the National Assembly, the Government will be able to identify this proposal, our proposal from the Ministry of the Economy will be positive, and if it is estimated that, by extending the implementation of the law, the outstanding objectives of the law can be achieved, such a proposal will be made, I believe, that the Government will also support, even in view of the newly created situation in the area of the Administrative Unit of Ormož, and I believe that this should be one of the important reasons. This week, as we have said, the National Assembly will also address this proposal for the extension of the law, and I believe that through this law we will also find one piece of solution to the problem, which is bigger than simply extending the law. Here solutions without bringing some substitute to this area, whether domestic or foreign, we will not be able to solve this problem in secret. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u249	Even the secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u250	Through the Regional Service of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Employment, the Ministry is aware of the problem of the company. Since the end of last year, the branch office, the District Service of Ptuj, has worked intensively with Sapila, d. o.o., Ormož. According to an evaluation of the institution based on experience and good cooperation with the company so far, it is a solid company that respects the rules and observes the labour standards. Even in the event of this redundancies, the company has always cooperated with the institution, kept them informed of its business decisions regarding the staff, notified in advance of the permanent surpluses of 228 workers and the criteria agreed by the company together with the unions. The cancellations of the working relationship began to be hot this week, meaning that the workers who were fired will be registered in the unemployment register from the beginning of April until the end of June. The Office will allow all applicants to provide all unemployment-related services and rights as soon as possible. Workers are informed by the institution that they can already register jobseekers at the time of the notice of their resignation with a view to informing them of their current vacancies and providing assistance in doing so. It encourages them to start actively looking for new employment at the time of their retirement. In the local environment, employees of this company are considered to be well-trained and working, and the agency's forecasts are therefore optimistic. On the basis of a forecast of employment needs submitted by employers in Podravje for 2017, they estimate – the institution – that there are good opportunities for the re-employment of workers who are fired because they are highly wanted profiles in the region. The Institute has already contacted employers in the region in order to ensure that workers who are fired will be re-employed as soon as possible. For those workers who are more difficult to employ, i.e. older than 50, disabled persons, active employment policy measures are available to improve their employment opportunities. The selection of measures shall be determined individually according to individual needs and shall include, inter alia, the possibility of retraining, training in the workplace and subsidies for employment.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u251	Mr. Andrej Chuš, you have the floor to request an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u252	Thank you for the first part of the debate and the answers. I also had a question planned below regarding the establishment of a sugar factory in the Ormož municipality, given that this year an experimental re-sugar pesos began to be planted and also produced in this environment, which has a rich tradition and experience. Of course, I hope that in the long term this will also help to revive agriculture in the Ptuj-Ormovo region, but by then, of course, we have to sort out other things that are now much more alarming. Somehow, given the number of new unemployed themselves, the unemployment rate will be right there on the border that you, Mr Minister, have been talking about, and of course we have to urinate somehow. I am one of the few people who always say that we need to speak and defend coherent regional development in the National Assembly, not because I am a Ptujčan, but also because, like Mr Minister, who is probably a little more in Podčetrtek – I also like to go there and dig there myself – somehow I see that this inter-regional difference does not diminish but increases. Until we ensure that in each municipality we have normally developed roads, that we have a normal business environment in Slovenia, i.e. payment discipline, low taxes, less bureaucracy than today, when, in fact, people – as Mr Pikl previously said, it seems to me that the guests are working only for bureaucracy and nothing else – until then we will have difficulty talking about opening new jobs, especially in the real sector and in the rural area. However, I would like to continue the discussion – the Director of the Employment Institute herself, I think Mrs. Žnidarič, also the president of the SMC Ormož Municipal Committee, said that two investments for new jobs in Ormož were currently under appeal to the Minister of Economy, saying: What two are they? I don't think it's fair for us to go public with polyinformation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u253	Minister of Economic Development and Technology Mr Zdravko Restoršek, you have the floor to complete the response.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u254	I have to say again that I can only talk about what is agreed. In public with things that are just like ideas that we can't begin and we can't continue, at least I don't think, and that's why I believe that only those investments that we're going to make so far will be able to make them public and then they won't be rejected as we have in some areas. But you also talked about revitalizing sugar production in this area. Here I have to say again that we have closed this factory to ourselves — I have this on my soul all over again when I say it because I was already a student at the construction site of this sugar factory — and it is not discussed. But even if we're looking now for who's responsible for what happened, there's no point in talking, because we're not going to wake this production up. I am personally reserved and skeptical at this point in time that in these global times it is possible to revitalize this production to this extent, which was then because I doubt that this can be done on an economic basis because of the release of sugar quotas in the European Union. But if we can come up with an investor willing and willing to invest in this revitalisation, we will gladly support such an initiative. Personally, I believe that we will have much more success if we manage to consolidate the ownership of this location, including through the funds available to us at our ministry for investment in business zones, so that we can organise another food processing or retail third industry in this area. However, with regard to the equality of this inter-regional development, I must say that there are two issues that need to be addressed here; that we must be active both on the ground and on the side of the country. At our ministry, we are working to bring this agreement for the development of the regions to a point where, despite our difficulties in modifying the financing of the agreement for the development of the regions in this perspective, we will have roughly the same possibility or that this eastern part will have its share and its weight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u255	Mr Andrej Chuš, you have the floor for a procedural request to hold a debate on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u256	Thank you very much again. I must say that in the local environment and also in the international environment – where I am moving in some way myself, I am also in the course of action and activities, although I am a member of the neighbouring constituency, but given that Ormož, who is a district, does not have a Member, which I have also assumed in this environment – there is, of course, a certain interest in revitalising the sugar plant and, in particular, the interest of farmers and young takers, who somehow want, given the experience and knowledge that is in the local community, to revive this activity. But it's back on the other side, which you yourself mentioned, something to put on the scale. But according to my information, investors also exist and are willing to invest in this. According to my information, they're coming from abroad. But it is true that, as a nation, we gave ourselves a carpool when we shut down this factory ourselves. The 18 countries of the European Union have not surrendered to this decision and continue to produce sugar beet and sugar. This, of course, also has a negative impact on the Slovenian market. In fact, we pay almost twice as much for sugar as other countries where sugar factories. But this, I think, is more of a debate on the Committee on Agriculture and the question of mag. It's a Jew. So I don't want to talk about the past. But perhaps I agree and suggest, of course, that we hold a discussion on the answer to the next meeting of the National Assembly, not because it is the ministers' fault to forgive the employees, because I do not think they are in this case. It is just that somehow in some society there have been some processes of rationalisation and the task of us, politicians, the National Assembly and the Government is to help people in distress and to enable them to return to the work process as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u257	Mr Andrej Čuš, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Friday, 24 March 2017, in the framework of the votes. Mr Franz Breznik, you have the floor to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Karl Erjavac.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u258	Havela, Mr. President, for the record. Dear Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Karl Erjavec! On 22 January 2016, you received a proposal from the Ministry of the Economy to take up a diplomatic post in the Permanent Representation of the Republic of Slovenia to the Organization of United Nations and, of course, other international organisations in Geneva, i.e. by covering the content of the World Trade Organization, the World Trade Organization, the candidate Mrs Špela Kučan. As we can see from the biography of the day and also from the information provided by the Minister of Economy when I asked this question more than half a year ago, Mrs Špela Kučan was employed by the Ministry of Economy prior to her arrival. Before that, she was editor of the website portal of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia, i.e. the winner of tomorrow. It is also very interesting that, according to the Spanish language professor, and that, according to the Ministry of Economics, English, which is one of the important languages in communication at the Permanent Representation, has a degree in C1/C2. Let me say that, according to the information, it also imposed certain sanctions on the Media Inspectorate, because the internet protala was not in the media's view. It is very interesting, which would be interesting for most young people in Slovenia, that this tender process contained two key issues: that someone has higher education and that they can master two world languages. Now as Minister for Foreign Affairs – I have already asked you – I ask: Do you think it is a permanent representation of the United Nations Organization in Geneva, and above all the coverage of the World Trade Organization is capable of someone who is a Spanish language professor who masters English at C1 and C2? But above all, I'm asking you: What does it mean to know Spanish in the Permanent Representation? As far as I know Geneva, it is mostly spoken in French or English. On the other hand, I ask you mainly in the professional sense: What are the results of Mrs Špela Kučan's work in this job after one year, more than one year since this appointment? What are her copyright projects and works in this regard – coverage, as Mr. Restovalšek then said, that this is an economic adviser to the WTO? That is why I am interested in concrete projects and specific tasks that Mrs Špela Kučan has done in this post in the last year. Thank you so much for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u259	Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Karl Erjavec, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u260	Thank you very much. Thank you so much for asking. Dear Members and Members, President of the National Assembly! You must understand that I will not be able to answer your questions as Foreign Minister. I am convinced that the selection procedure was in accordance with the law, because if it were not, this lady would probably not have been at the Permanent Representation of the Republic of Slovenia to the United Nations Office in Geneva. As far as language is concerned, I can comment as Foreign Minister. I can tell you that there are quite a few ambassadors in our diplomatic network who are also professors of foreign language and not necessarily English. Thus, it is not unusual that in diplomacy there are people who have a basic university education, a university education in foreign language. I can comment on that part of the question concerning the work of Mrs Špela Kučan's adviser. She is in charge of the Permanent Representation of the Republic of Slovenia to the United Nations Office in Geneva for the World Trade Organisation and also to the field of the World Intellectual Property Organisation. What are her tasks? He mainly gives Mrs Špeli Kučan the Ministry of Economy, Development and Technology, but she is, of course, a direct superior ambassador to the Permanent Representation of the Republic of Slovenia to the United Nations Office in Geneva. He, the ambassador, told us that Mrs Špela Kučan was doing her job in a professional and conscientious manner. But what I'm trying to say is, since one. 1. Slovenia did not have a representative at the World Trade Organisation until last February. I believe that the reasons were particularly financial in nature, but we urgently need someone to deal with the work of the World Trade Organisation. I just want to say, there are 164 countries. The so-called Doha Development Agenda, which aims to improve trade rules and liberalisation of the market, has recently been adopted. This is about negotiations that are multilateral. In this regard, I would like to say that the views of the European Union are expressed or represented by the European Commission, which is why Mrs Špela Kučan also has to participate on a weekly basis in meetings of the format of the European Union in Geneva, where they coordinate positions between the members of the European Union and, of course, it is also linked to instructions coming from Ljubljana, in particular from the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. This is about the ongoing negotiations in the context of the Doha development agenda, and this is where these negotiations need to be monitored. These are different negotiating bodies, the area of market access, for example for non-agricultural products, services, then for intellectual property, then the World Trade Organisation rules on the environment, then the resolution of disputes, and in particular the need to be monitored throughout the negotiations for an environmental goods agreement, an agreement on trade, services and regular activities of the World Trade Organisation, as well as ministerial meetings and meetings of a number of working bodies of the World Trade Organisation [[Excluding microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u261	Mr. Franz Breznik, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u262	Thank you very much! If you have listened to those who are still in the Chamber, the distinguished minister, because you know that you have not answered me anything really about the specific tasks, the positions, except that he reports to his superior and that he is pleased with her work according to your statements. Now let's get to the point of everything. First. The role of the World Trade Organisation is a forum for multilateral intergovernmental negotiations, reducing barriers to trade. It represents a system of rules covered by this Agreement governing international trade that can resolve trade disputes – that is, disputes between members, as you said, more than 160 members – on the basis of multilateral dispute settlement mechanisms; transparency concerns, that is, the care and supervision of Member States' trade policies and, above all, the monitoring of audits. Now you've said that he has additional tasks in terms of intellectual property. Now, look, Minister, you're a graduate lawyer by profession, you don't think, especially if we know intellectual property or intellectual property law, which is one of the important limits of legal science. That in this place, without only needing a graduate lawyer, we need a specialist in patent law or intellectual property law. In Slovenia we have quite a few, young people, including people looking for jobs. The invitation to tender was, for the first time, internal, not external, there was no external invitation to tender. Two candidates applied for a tender in Geneva. You told me he's a majority, including a lot of ambassadors who have a university degree in a foreign language. Look, I appreciate everyone who's got this diploma and who's come to this diploma, but people are going in some direction, in some business, to do work in this business. Here, Minister Restoration told my first question too openly that it was an economic consultant. Now I'm actually interested in: What projects did she finish? What projects did she sign up for? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u263	Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Karl Erjavec, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u264	I must say that, as Minister for Foreign Affairs, it is not my job to monitor the work of Mrs Špela Kučan, but I am bound by the opinion given by the Ambassador. This is Ambassador Shuc. I can also give you a written introduction. He says that Mrs Špela Kučan is doing her work in an excellent, professional, conscientious and timely manner. However, as far as the content of the work is concerned, I have said that it is linked to the instructions given by the Ministry of Economy, Development and Technology. But I don't want to argue about who's capable of what kind of work, what kind of education it takes, because I think that if we go to the whole state administration, maybe at the Ministry of Defence, which you know very well, we both know, given that I have also been a minister of defense for four years, that people who don't have military schools do a lot of military work. For this reason, it seems to me that such a comparison is very simplistic. I think that a realistic and objective assessment can only be made by the superior, and as I said, the ambassador is organizationally somehow her superior and also partly concerned with the content, assessing that he is doing his work professionally, conscientiously and in time. But I don't know what the Minister's opinion is about the economy, but I find it hard to imagine that his opinion would be significantly different. But I'm afraid there's something else behind this question. I think maybe what got in the way is a last name. That's not a good practice. I think, Mr Member, that you too probably have children — if you don't have them — and you probably wouldn't want to ask yourself such questions in the National Assembly about an individual who works as a consultant. I don't think this is a matter for the National Assembly or the Member of Parliament. To be honest, I don't want to have this debate myself about their children, whether they're capable or not. I hope that this debate is not intended to do so. Once again, counselor Špela Kučan is rated as an excellent worker as someone who works professionally, who works conscientiously and on time. Is there an obstacle to education? I guess not. Because otherwise, I wouldn't get a grade like that.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u265	Mr Franz Breznik, you have the floor for a procedural request to hold a debate on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u266	Thank you very much. I didn't expect that answer from you, but I wanted to say one thing in the beginning. I don't care if the candidate or the person doing the job has the name Dog or not. One of my opinions is about Mr. Milan Kucan. But I do have a different perspective. I have a view of meritocracy in Slovenian society, I have a view of negative human resources selection. You compare your job when you were Minister of Defence, which is a political function. You're saying that the Ministry of Defence employs people who have no formal education for their jobs. All those who are military persons who have rank, all who have completed all comparable military education, have decades of careers and, of course, have some formal education. So they're experts in their field. We're talking here, alone, about contradiction. On the one hand, you say it's an economic advisor. The economic adviser needs a specialized education: whether he is a lawyer, whether he is an economist, whether he is a macroeconomicist, whether he is a financial specialist in auditing, or whether he is, as we say, a lawyer specialist in intellectual property. None of this is true of this person. You yourself said, you admitted to speaking language, English, in degree C1, C2. Now this is not about Špela Kučan, it is about hundreds and thousands of young people who have higher and suitable education for such jobs and such people of the other countries, who are all ahead of us mainly in the economic field, are putting us in the most important positions in the world. This is the difference at the moment under the left governments in Slovenia and other governments. You put in place totally inappropriate candidates who are not competent, who are not professional, who do not even master a foreign language in this area, and put them in the highest places in this country. It's not about the dog's last name. Here was the case in the previous term when the same question was raised – and you were then silent – for Mr Janš's daughter. Mr Janša's daughter mastered abroad, she was a landscape architect, on the Gas pipelines where she was employed, they needed a landscape architect just for the area when they were digging gas pipelines and when they put these pipelines back in order to, say, pour with the environment. There was no answer. So, a professional to that exact job and, of course, a poorly paid job to be clear. This isn't about Mr Kučan's daughter right now, but it's about a story. These are some of the privileges of some people in this country who put themselves on important jobs. All of these are full, and here you devalue all the other young people who are with the top educations that are experts in this field with competences, experience and everything else. The thousands who have to seek employment most often outside of this country do not have this job. Not even the invitation to tender was made public, but the invitation to tender was closed. That's sad and that's what I want to talk about. That's the question. This is an affair, not just a question, so I demand, Madam President, on the basis of the possibility under the Rules of Procedure [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u267	Or I'll say something, besides that. With regard to foreign language knowledge, C2 is the highest degree. C1/C2 was what you said was wrong and C2 was the highest level of foreign language knowledge. Maybe you didn't know. Mr Franz Breznik, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Friday, 24 March 2017, in the framework of the votes. Ms Anita Koleša, you have the floor to ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Zdravek Počvalšk, and Minister of Finance Mag. Matthew Vrančnik Erman, who is excused absent.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u268	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I say hello to everyone! Dear Minister Zdravko Počivalšek, Slovenian Posta or better said Slovenian municipalities and residents of this municipality have recently had very many problems with Slovenian Mail. I am afraid that the management of Post Office responds to the changed business environment in the European area of such services with only concern about the short-term effects of optimising the postal network by removing classical postal offices and introducing new, often also unsuccessful service activities, including so-called contractual mail. In Slovenia more than 100 post offices have thus been closed or transformed. Most local communities do not agree with this business policy. Recently, in the Celje area, in the municipalities of Dobrna and Dobe, you strongly opposed the purpose of abolishing Post, but a planned decision was taken. We are familiar with cases where these contract mails have ceased to operate for various reasons and the local population has been deprived of the law-provided and quality postal services. For this reason, I ask you: What is the closing procedure of the Post office, which in a certain area performed universal postal services and then transformed into a contract post office? I also ask: To what extent should the opinion of the local communities be taken into account in the procedures? How does it control the delivery of postal services? How did he act in cases where the contract post office ceased to operate? Did SDH or Government or SDK, through which the State exercises its constitutional rights on Post Slovenia, consider the report of the Postal Regulator and request clarifications from the members of the Supervisory Board of Post on those issues? I know that all these questions are not just for you, Mr Minister, but also for the competent minister, so I will ask for a written answer, and I will also ask her and, of course, the Agency for Communications Networks and Services for this answer. Thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u269	Minister for Economic Development and Technology Mr Zdravko Restoršek, you have the floor to reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u270	Mr President of the National Assembly, honourable Member, thank you for your questions. Dear Members! To begin with, because of the changed business environment and in particular the user's habits, the Post Office simply needs to adapt to the new situation. One of the ways in which adaptation is done is through a project to optimize the postal network carried out in two phases. The first phase of 2012-2016 is over, the second phase of 2016-2022 is under way. I must point out that the Post Office of Slovenia had an over-average network of contact points before the project was launched, that the Post Office of Slovenia still retains the density of the postal network and that, according to the AKOS survey, the results are such that users are extremely satisfied with Mail services. The network has exceeded and is still beyond the criteria set out in the general quality act on the implementation of the universal postal service and is also at the density of the network above the average of the European Union. Any transformation of the closed point of contact in the Republic of Slovenia shall be carried out solely with the consent of the Agency for Communications Networks and Services of the Republic of Slovenia, AKOS. AKOS gives its consent to the conversion or closure of Mail only if it finds that the prescribed quality of universal postal service will not deteriorate. The post office, as a provider of the universal postal conversion service, cannot carry out the closure of the contact point until it has obtained the consent of the AKOS, by decision. The General Act of the Post of Slovenia requires that before reshaping the Post obtain an opinion from the local community, which can be positive or negative. The opinion of the local community for AKOS is not binding if all the conditions for conversion to contractual postage or closure are met. The postal service of Slovenia then, through a call for tender, finds a suitable contractual partner and enters into a cooperation agreement with him and the relevant arrangements governing the operation of the contract post office. The universal postal service provider, i.e. the Post of Slovenia, shall also inform the postal service users covered by this contact point at least 30 days prior to the conversion of the contact point. In the event of closure, the procedure is similar only that the Post Office of Slovenia fully analyzes the operation of the point of contact and writes the way in which universal postal service is provided in this area after its closure. On this basis, the Postal Service of Slovenia first introduces the municipality or the local community, and after obtaining a positive decision by AKOS on the closure of the contact point, its actual closure is carried out. The postal service of Slovenia shall, at least 45 days before the closing of the contact point on the closing date and the manner in which the universal postal service is performed in the prescribed quality after its closure, inform all users of the postal services covered by this contact. Post Slovenia is an economic company with 100 % ownership of the Republic of Slovenia, and as its founder it exercises its founding rights through the Slovenian State holding company and not the Government. The Ministry of Economic Development and Technology is therefore not the right address for questions on the supervision of Mail operations. Let me add that the Agency for the Communications Network and Services of the Republic of Slovenia is an independent regulatory body, which also regulates and supervises the postal service market in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u271	Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, you have the floor to ask the Minister of Health, Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u272	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Members, Members, Ministers, Ministers and others present! Among the measures in the field of health care, we have stated in the coalition contract that it is necessary to separate public from private health activities, which we have justified by the following: "To the seriousness of the problem of simultaneous work in the public and private sectors in health is 27. 2. In a systematic, principled opinion, 2014, the Commission warned against corruption. It notes that the intertwining of public and private interest or the existence of doctors working in public and private health at the same time is, in itself, a significant systemic corruption risk. This fact also creates increased risks of conflicts of interest. This risk must be addressed by amending the legislation." End of quote. That's why I want to know: In what way and when should the abolition of the gastrointestinal system of physicians causing public health abnormalities and increasing corruption risk be realized? The health system also shakes the salary blackmail of some of the best paid doctors in the country, and patients are hostages and the country allows it. You do not intend to impose restrictions on the earnings practiced by some doctors, since, according to your suggestions, doctors of public servants should work not only in their own and other public institutions, but also in private profit companies, both in concessionaires and in their self-paid clinics and in the private sector. Don't you think it's a case of the legalization of adhesion for systemic corruption? We have harmful long waiting lines in public health, doctors in the public service are complaining that they are overloaded, while some of them are blackmailing the country with a demand that they can continue to work in private. Perhaps some doctors are overburdened in public service, but most of those who work in private certainly are not. This also shows the fact that there are no waiting types in some better quality health systems than Slovenia, although these systems have fewer or equal number of doctors per thousand inhabitants than in Slovenia, for example, Canada, Japan, the USA, the United Kingdom and so on. The problem of Slovenia is mainly a poor health policy, which, at the expense of public interest and patients, allows the greedy part of the healthcare industry to practice adhesion, that is sitting in two chairs. The problem is the privatisation and commercialisation of health care and the lack of adequate professional supervision in health care. However, the Ministry of Health is responsible for the relevant legislation. So when will the livestock industry in Slovenia be banned?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u273	Minister of Health Milojka Kolar Celarc, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u274	Thank you for saying so, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Dear Members and Members, honourable Ambassador Julian Bizjak Mlakar, thank you for this question! As you know, the systematic work of doctors and other healthcare professionals outside their employer is subject to the regulation of the Health Act. The new law, which has been regulated in a new and more systematic way in this area, has been in coordination for more than a year. It is currently in coalition coordination again, but unfortunately the views of all coalition members on this issue are not uniform, but also within one single coalition party. The scope of the work of doctors and other health workers in other employers is regulated more fully in the new legislation, in accordance with the coalition agreement, because the work of physicians in clean individuals after the current legislation is not regulated at all and no consensus is required for this work. But in the new one, we're dealing with this the following way. First, we determine the conditions under which a healthcare professional can also provide health care for other health care providers and are bound to fulfil all obligations to his employer and to respect the obligation to rest and annual leave. In addition, the draft law also lays down a time limit for work with another employer outside the public health system, i.e. 8 hours per week, which may also be an average time limit over a six-month period. Further agreement shall be given to the parent employer, which shall be issued for a maximum period of one year. Work without consent or contrary to the consent given constitutes a breach of the labour obligation, which may also be the reason for the termination of the employment contract. The obligation to report monthly to its employer on this work shall be laid down in such a way as to show where, which days and how long the individual healthcare worker has performed such work. Infringement of these reporting obligations may also be the reason for the agreement to be withdrawn. It also regulates and introduces inspections of this work, namely the Health Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia. In doing so, let me mention that the coordination of medical organisations with such restrictions or the restriction of the work of doctors is not in agreement. For this reason, too, the bill is fully opposed and proposed not to introduce special arrangements, but to regulate the prohibition of competitive work under the general labour law of the Labour Relations Act, where they consider that their work with other employers does not constitute a competitive work to the public health service because they say that they reduce waiting periods by doing so. They also point to a more liberal regime for additional work in other parts of the public sector where there is no such restriction and consensus. Why is the work that we are regulating and limiting now in this way? It should be said that in the Slovenian health system, due to the past human resources policy led by the Medical Chamber, there are about a thousand doctors missing in our system in order to reach the average of EU countries at all. Due to this lack of physicians, it is necessary to allow these doctors to work in other public health institutions to a limited extent, because you could have found this at the request of a 40-hour worker for a two-week sentence, and you could have closed down three or four hospitals in Slovenia. Since the beginning of my mandate, we have been increasing the number of specialised jobs at the initiative of the Ministry of Health, so that by the end of 2022 we will have obtained an adequate number of doctors.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u275	Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, you have the floor to request an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u276	Thank you very much! I'm asking you to complete your answer. All these excuses, which for so long have enabled the rabid system, of course we have known from time to time. I can say that as early as 2014, this is how the Medical Chamber and also the doctors of amphibians threatened that waiting species would be even longer, and the health system would collapse if the country prevented them from exercising their livestock. At the same time, in 2014, Mr Kuštrin was expected to report to the former ministers that they knew about the abuse of doctors of amphibians, and none of them did anything. It is clear from your response that the Ministry of Health is not prepared to impose the necessary restrictions on doctors today, regardless of the opinion I have read from the outset, i.e. the Commission's opinion on preventing corruption. At the same time, it must be said that by the end of 2022 a thousand 831 new specialist doctors were to enter the health system, while you intend to legalise concessions to profit companies for even 30 or 45 years. Early termination of any such concession will be costly for the country. Don't you think it's a bad idea to stop new doctors from working in health homes and hospitals because these institutions couldn't get money and concessionaires for the next 30 to 45 years? While trying to legitimize the expansion of profits to public health companies at the expense of health homes and hospitals, you wrote among the objectives of the amendments to the Health Act: "The basic mission of health care is to meet the needs of the population rather than to generate profits, so there must be a dominant public and non-profit health activity." So how do you plan to financially and staffly strengthen public health homes and hospitals? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u277	Minister of Health Milojka Kolar Celarc, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u278	Thanks again for saying that! That is why we are modifying and coordinating the amendment of the Health Act; in order to make more order in order to establish a system and legal system so that, as has been the case in the past, concessions will not be awarded according to the wishes of individuals and not according to the wishes of the network and the needs of our people. Just because I won't repeat myself, in the first part of my answer, I told you what limitations we're putting in place. However, after 15, 20 years, we cannot simply ban work with another employer, especially another public health institution, if we face such a shortage of doctors. By the way, as some countries also have, I would say, similar systems, that certain restrictions are also allowed to work with other public health institutions or concessionaires. Nor is this true of the award of concessions, Madam Member, as you have stated. As I have already stated, for the first time in the proposal for health concessions, we have mentioned the conditions for when concessions can be granted, then we have written that the condition for awarding concessions is an adopted concession act, and concessions will only be granted when the public health institution cannot meet the needs of the population, because we want and strengthen the public health system, the network that is installed. These are the reasons why we are awarding concessions or in future they will only be tendered in these cases. An invitation to tender will also be required for all to apply and, of course, those who will also meet the conditions of the highest quality services will be selected for a specific area for the award of concessions. One more thing. You mentioned the longest duration of concessions. That's right. It says, if you want, from one year to a maximum of 30 years. The investment investments that an individual applicant will have to invest in order to be able to carry out a particular activity must be taken into account here. It does not mean that every invitation to tender and every private candidate for concession will now be awarded for 30 years.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u279	Ma'am mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, you have the floor for a procedural request to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u280	In view of the fact that the Minister has afforded herself the argument that what I have said does not hold true, I think it is right for the Minister to be able to explain in a full-day debate what I have said is not true. Because everything I've said is true. I think it's very unfair and the Minister should be telling the truth, at least in this congregation. For this reason, I ask for a procedural proposal to discuss this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u281	Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Friday, 24 March 2017, in the framework of the votes. Violeta Tomić, you have the floor to ask the Minister of Health, Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u282	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Minister, you know what I'm gonna ask you. The Health Committee is already 7. Ten. 2016 adopted clear conclusions, we unanimously adopted them with 11 votes in favour and no objection relating to the legalisation of the use and production of hemp for medical purposes. The conclusions adopted instructed the Ministry of Health to move the hemp of the first group of illicit drugs within 60 days of the decision and to prepare all the necessary legal grounds to legalise both the use and the processing of hemp for medical purposes. The deadline for the implementation of the conclusions adopted has expired by 7. 1. To date, neither of the three decisions adopted by the Committee has been implemented. We have heard many times, and on all the oral parliamentary questions, we hear written questions about some strange arguments that move more away from any solution. We hear you start a task force, consult, change your mind. In short, the only thing we can't hear is when you're going to fulfill the committee's request and how. In short, that's why I'm asking you: Why have the amendments to the Regulation on the classification of illicit drugs, even though the amendment has already been mentioned on the agenda of the last meeting of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, not yet been adopted? And secondly: Why has the Ministry already prepared a number of different amendments to the proposed regulation? Why is only one proposal takes into account the Committee's request to move the entire plant from the first group of illicit drugs? I also want to know: When will the Ministry implement the Committee's conclusions and ensure that hemp production and processing can be used for medical purposes? I also want to know: When will the first patient be able to receive the hemp on a green prescription? And not last: What steps have been taken so far to implement these decisions taken on the Committee? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u283	Minister of Health Milojka Kolar Celarc, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u284	Thank you for your word. Hello again! Dear Mrs Violeta Tomić, it is true that we have prepared and, on the basis of long-term coordination, have also drawn up a regulation that was in the Government at the previous meeting on Thursday. It was coordinated with all departments, other stakeholders. Pursuant to this Regulation, hemp is classified as another group of illicit drugs. At the request of the Minister of the Jews, who asked for a one-week delay so that his Members could not, I don't know, look at this regulation, this regulation was postponed to the next meeting. Otherwise, I should say that it has been coordinated with both the Ministry of Agriculture and the Food Office, so that I think there should be no problems or any obstacles, at least I have not been brought into line, and I believe that this regulation will be adopted next week. Otherwise, as I said, you can also get on the recipe these flower and fruity hemp tips, from which resin has not yet been printed for medical purposes. However, you need to know that after the regulation has been implemented, according to the Medicinal Products Act and the Pharmaceuticals Act, the medical profession has to make proposals on where these medical indications for which this disease will be treated would be, I would say, a hemp is available on a prescription, because of course the activities are already under way. With only this amendment to the Regulation, the production and processing of hemp with a THC content of 0,2 % for medical purposes is not allowed, and the Act on the production and transport of illicit drugs should therefore be amended. Let me say that, just in early April, now in a few days, the Ministry of Health is organising an expert consultation with representatives of international organisations and those European countries that already allow the cultivation of cannabis for medical purposes. We want to gain information and experience on the various ways of regulating the production and use of this medical hemp and thus to have a broad debate on the potential and potential risks and on the basis of the experience of these countries – we know that only three countries within the EU have this special status or production – we will prepare the starting points and then the law. However, you need to know that Slovenia has also signed the United Nations Convention on Prohibited Drugs, which will require coordination and preparation of this law also in accordance with these principles.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u285	Violeta Tomić, you have the floor to request an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u286	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm very embarrassed to hear that it's the Minister of the Jews who stopped the adoption of this, because when we first said that hemp should be given to the people in use, because we know that we gave a lot of hope to the patients, the Social Democracy made a press conference half an hour ahead of us, that they would legalize. I don't think it's a good time for political bargaining when patients really wait and want these drugs. You say the profession will make a proposal. Of course, because it's been three months and we haven't received any of these proposals yet. Thus, it is not true that the ZPPD should be amended because the Regulation needs to be adopted, which will allow the production and processing of hemp for medical purposes. So I have to ask you again: When will the first patient be able to obtain hemp and products by covering the health insurance company? For as I have understood you, you will accept the import of pitches from which the resin has not yet been poured out. For a drop of resin to be treated that needs to be standardised, unfortunately patients still buy it on the black market, a mountain of these spikes is required. So we're still thinking about smoking. They're smoking creams. No — the weight of the spikes is converted into medicine! That's why I want to know: How are you going to handle this? Because then we read in the media how the patient actually has no choice as to how the bupropion went off the list of illicit drugs, the hemp doesn't hurt how Glaxo affects the Ministry's decisions and it's clear that there's capital in the back. I'm asking you for specific answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u287	Minister of Health Milojka Kolar Celarc, you have the floor to complete the response.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u288	Thanks again for saying that. See, in accordance with the Medicinal Products Act and the Pharmacy Act, everything you are asking will, of course, be prepared by the Public Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, because in Slovenia as an independent regulator, it is responsible and responsible for giving appropriate guidance, requirements or monographs for the flower and fruity hemps in accordance with the Slovenian National Supplement to the European Pharmacopoeia. After the publication of this monograph in practice, in accordance with the Act on Pharmaceutical Activities and the Professional Guidelines of the Medical Section, as you have already probably found out from our written response, it is also possible to import standardised spikes and hemp from abroad, because it is very important that those who need it for their treatment know exactly what THC content is. That is why this regulation and these rules are necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u289	Violeta Tomić, you have the floor for a procedural request to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u290	Thank you for your word. Of course, I will propose that we hold a debate on the Minister's response at the meeting of the National Assembly, because this is obviously more than necessary. The Committee adopted clear conclusions and made clear to the Ministry what to do and how to implement these conclusions. The deadline for implementation has expired three months ago and nothing has been done so far and I should like to stress that these conclusions and these proposals have been coordinated by a group of Members not only from the United Left but also from SMC, unrelated Members, Desus. We have received more than half of the MPs in the National Assembly, and the Ministry is ignoring our decision smoothly, which is totally unacceptable. Of course, the JAZMP needs to prepare legislation, but you know, the public is very upset by the JAZMP decision, which is even at the CBD prescribed dose, and we know that CBD is far from THC, with CBD is a rich industrial hemp and is by no means psychoactive – look at the fraction, but it is quite medicinal - and the JAZMP recommendation is so low the daily intake of this CBD, which in no case can be harmful that with a piece of bread we can exceed this limit. In short, we don't like the direction the Ministry of Health is going with JAZMP. If we are to achieve any movement in this area, we will obviously have to hold one debate in the National Assembly and ask the Minister for very specific answers and, in particular, concrete solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u291	Violeta Tomić, your proposal will be decided on Friday, 24. 3. 2017, in the framework of the votes. Mrs Janja Slug, you have the floor to ask the Minister for the Environment and the Space of Mrs Irena Majcen.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u292	Thank you very much. My question is housing law. We are aware that there is some comprehensive reform of this law being prepared at the Ministry of Environment and Space, but, of course, given the increasingly frequent problems that are being detected in the field, especially with the administrators, of course, as I have pointed out, I think that, in 2015, when we discussed this, this legislation would change. Every year, according to my data, the housing inspection receives as many as 500 reports against the management. In 2015, those novels, we know they were prepared, but they came across a number of comments from the professional public and are no longer as current as I understand it. Problems prove, including even frequent media releases, the causes of disputes between the administrator and the top-level owners associated with the reserve fund, related to the non-transparent spending of money on energy recovery and so on, in the case of those major investments. This is, of course, contrary to the very purpose of the manager, who is supposed to work for the common good and should help to achieve some common goals, preserve or even improve the value of the building, and with some smart decisions he will also help to reduce the costs of high-level owners. At present, the most current affair is, of course, in the environment from which I come, and relates to Warden Atrium Celje, who is the largest manager in Celje, where there is a problem that despite the regular settlement of obligations by the key owners, it is now noted that obligations to suppliers are not settled and they are threatened with shutting down electricity. Problems also arise in the decision to replace the manager, we know the case from the apartment building Metuljček in Kamnik, where only with your help did they manage to arrange for the replacement of the manager, I think it took almost one year, or residents in Mostah, where it took them two years. In Ljubljana it was even established, in 2015 I think, the Association of Important Owners in order to choose their place in the debate on co-decision. While my opinion is that the current law offers some security guards, that, of course, the essential owners are not the right ones and do not find and use them where they are available, but at the same time they must respond to what is happening on the ground, I think that the change of law is certainly meaningful and very necessary. So my question is: How far are you from drafting a legislative amendment? When can we expect it? How can we help high-level owners in this interim period? However, it might also make sense to consider a change in the direction of housing inspectors as well. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u293	Minister of Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u294	Dear President of the National Assembly, Mr Milan Brglez, honourable Members, honourable Member, distinguished Mrs Janja Slug, thank you for the question. I believe that the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Housing Law we have drawn up will now, more than a year from now, help some important owners to comply with management. At that time, it was envisaged that each establishment managed by the operator had its own transaction account and that, by operating this transaction account, the relevant owners would somehow choose either the supervisor or someone represented in the monthly review of the funds. It is true that there have been some changes to the legal provisions, but as you yourself have already stated, this change has not been positively accepted by managers, at least I am not surprised, and of course this is well known to me that this change was also considered unacceptable for representatives or for the Association of Floor Owners, if this change only increases costs, but at least for me it is slightly less acceptable. In fact, the relationship between the owner and the manager is governed by a management contract. The contract concluded between the floor owners and the administrator shall be of a civil nature determined by the Bond Code, as shall all other legal forms of contracts in any other field. Of course, the new law will not be able to bring this change into the hands of the Ministry of Environment, Space or Inspections of our Ministry. Therefore, any agreement on the contract concluded by the contracting party must be resolved before the competent authority, i.e. the court. It is true that the floor owners can at any time without a reason with a 90-day notice cancel the contract to the manager and choose a new manager. However, where there is a breach of the law or of the contract for the management of administrative services, the essential owners may withdraw from the contract without notice. Of course, this listing of such high-level owners in such cases as the case of Atrium is, in fact, not helpful. It is true, however, that in a particular case, namely in the case of Atrium, it is not an anomaly, but a criminal offence is envisaged when the manager used the money of the landowners for other purposes and did not pay the services to suppliers as he should. In this particular case, housing inspectors also have six open criminal proceedings. Next month we will publish the starting point for the new housing law. It is somehow 30 days for public debate, and at that time we will begin or begin to draft a law, namely the new Housing Law, which is announced or is the result of the adopted Resolution on the National Housing Programme, which was also adopted by the National Assembly, is 2015-2025. We expect that these starting points will somehow be confirmed or less modified to prepare the draft law by the end of this year or at the latest at the beginning of the following year and that it will be given to public debate, because it is necessary for such a law that touches the business or works of a number of floor owners in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u295	Mrs. Janja Sluga, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u296	This is where we agree. I really don't think those guards who are in this current marriage have been used enough. When it comes to a crime, of course, no law helps us to understand each other. Of course, it must be understood that the high-level owners are in a very difficult situation right now. Some have already received some calls from a new company, a new manager with whom they do not have a contract at all, others are getting calls from the old one, others are trying to replace the manager and so on. I think it's really a matter of urgency, and it's in a hurry, and some extra security guards are absolutely necessary. Now you're saying the starting points would go to a public debate next month, which is great. This is more than I expected. Then how's the timeline for the draft? When do you think this law could really see the light of the world? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u297	Minister of Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u298	As it appears, honourable Member, we agree. It's true what you said. Of course I'm joining in. As I said, if there were no major substantive comments on the source, they would have prepared a draft law by the end of the year or by the end of January of the following year, then put it into public debate. I do not hope to predict what the public debate will bring, especially because I do not know what it will bring this month's published starting point. Above all, I do not hope to predict, because, at least in my opinion, the solution that we had foreseen at the time in the draft amendment of the law was that every housing building that is uniform and has one manager, through one transaction account reviewing this data, is, of course, not easier to carry out than today, when some administrators operate with, perhaps, 50 units and there is some situation to review inappropriately less. Thus, after this preparation or after the public consultation of the starting points, I would be reluctant to predict when the following procedures could then be foreseen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u299	Mag. Bojan Krajnc, you have the floor to ask the Minister without a department responsible for development, strategic projects and the cohesion of Mrs Alenka Smerkolj.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u300	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister! There is a lot of talk in the National Assembly on European cohesion policy, and at least every three months we are considering a report on the Committee on European Union Affairs. You have also answered a number of questions already sent, and we will also talk about this at point 16 on Thursday at this meeting of the National Assembly. Now that the debate in this House is on European cohesion policy, the main focus is on Objective 1, which follows the faster achievement of the objectives set out in the European Union strategy by 2020, but less is said or even less known is the fact that we also have Goal 1 on international cooperation, i.e. cross-border cooperation on the one hand, and transnational cooperation on the other. By the way, the SMC Group, at its last field meeting in its own eyes, was convinced by the mayors that it was true. That's why I'm specifically interested in: What goals has Slovenia already achieved in this area? How successful are we? What other goals are ahead of us? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u301	Minister without a department responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion, Mrs Alenka Smerkolj, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u302	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! A respected magus. Krajnc, thank you very much for that question. Indeed, we are talking a lot in the National Assembly about European cohesion policy on Goal 1, where Slovenia is available over €3 billion. This second part, Goal 2, where we are talking about really international participation in Slovenia, and in both cross-border and transnational programmes, and in fact, at least since I've been here in the National Assembly, I don't think I've really talked about it. Our service allows Slovenians to participate in 13 European Territorial Cooperation programmes and Slovenian partners have the opportunity, through these programmes, to contribute, together with European space partners, to the opening of borders. That's what this is all about. Here it is possible to develop common development solutions that enable Slovenian and other institutions in Europe to apply in a wider European space and without the EU programmes and so on, Goal 2 would not be coordinated international cooperation and there would be many concrete results. Let me first touch on cross-border programmes. Slovenia has four borders and four cross-border programmes. During this new programming period 2014-2020, Slovenia managed to obtain management of as many as 3 out of 4 management programmes. These are programmes with Austria, Hungary and Croatia; Italy – the Italian cross-border programme is managed by our colleagues from Italy. Of course, there are also great advantages to being held accountable. Here I can say that all three cross-border programmes managed by Slovenia are already in progress. If we are trying to look at the average somehow, we have already divided about half of the total assets into 35 joint projects. Given that we have decided to launch so-called open calls, we believe that by the end of the year we will actually reach an average of 80%. This month is particularly important that we have received accreditation for the management of the programme by an independent audit authority, and if we compare us and other management programmes in the wider region now, we are actually among the best. The fourth cross-border programme is run by Italy. It's a little bit more stuck there, so it's for the Italians to move a little faster, so we're helping. Slovenia's success in the past period, I think it is very important that I was very convinced when I first saw it, that Slovenia invested €96.7 million in these programmes during the 2007-2013 programming period, bringing 130 million euros into Slovenia. The difference is obvious. However, if I touch on transnational programmes, we are participating in the transnational programmes of Central Europe, the Alps, the Mediterranean, the Danube Region and the Adriatic during the current period. These programmes allocate about half of the funds and the other half will be distributed by the end of 2018. It is encouraging that 303 Slovenian partners participate in almost 200 of the 384 approved projects, of which 32% are leading. And it is encouraging that there will be 600 new three-year development jobs already in the middle of this programming period. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u303	Dr. Dragan Matić, you have the floor to ask the Minister of Finance of Mags. Matey Vraničar Erman, who is excusedly absent, I ask myself, or also determine whether you want a written or oral answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u304	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. All in attendance, all in attendance! Since this question seems very important to me, I expect, of course, an oral answer at the next meeting. It is about the fact that the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of the Ministry of Finance submitted a proposal from the section for hospitality and tourism in early last year concerning the taxation of non-alcoholic beverages. The section does not seem to be allowed to sell non-alcoholic beverages in trade and in sales machines with reduced VAT rates, while guests have to charge a higher VAT rate for the same drink. It seems even more incomprehensible to me that the coffee that the guest takes with him in a shop or in an automatic machine is taxed at a lower tax rate and that the guests are obliged to charge a higher VAT rate for coffee. In doing so, they point out that the drinking machines provided for in Article 143(2) of the VAT Implementing Regulation are exempt from the obligation to issue invoices, which is why their owners or tenants do not have any additional costs with tax repositories. The Ministry of Finance has not yet identified these indications. The Chamber of Commerce and Industry then submitted a proposal last July to introduce systemic control over VAT accounting from products on sales machines, but this has not yet been responded to. In this regard, I am interested in: What concrete measures have already been taken or will be taken by the Ministry of Finance in this area in terms of eliminating the inequalities between the debtors? Will there be more appropriate system control over sales on sales machines to ensure that owners or renters of these machines actually charge and pay VAT in accordance with the rules? With regard to the above-mentioned Rules on the implementation of the VAT law, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry also pointed out that it allows unfair competition in the area of hospitality to take place due to the failure to issue invoices at special events such as municipal holidays, fire fighting parties, social events and public institutions. According to the Chamber, this constitutes a breach of the law and leads to distortion of competition. In practice, companies are already being set up for non-profit purposes, but they are in fact established solely and primarily for the purpose of hosting activities carried out by these companies through tax registers and beyond tax supervision. In this regard, I am interested in the following: What does the Ministry of Finance intend to do to correct legislation that will prevent the different treatment and tax situation of business operators involved in catering? I thank you in advance for your oral response.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u305	Mr Franz Breznik, you have the floor to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Karl Erjavac, and the Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Zdravek Počvalšk.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u306	Thank you very much. Mr Erjavec apologized to me, of course I accept his apology, because he was in a hurry, but I will ask the Minister of Economy to give me at least some of the answers. On the last question, I was talking about trade, and now I'm going to talk about trade with Germany. Our exchange with Germany was EUR 5.1 billion in 2016, so 5.1 billion was our exports to Germany, 4.7 billion we imported from Germany, so we have, we can say, about EUR 500 million plus in this exchange. But what is important in this market is, above all, in countries such as Bavaria and Baden-Württemberg, to establish some serious economic diplomacy. We talk about economic diplomacy most of the time. It is the two most important areas of the Republic of Germany, which have the largest industry, as we know, also development, not only BMW, Mann, Audi and everything else in this area, but it is a number of engineering companies, a number of companies working for the European Development Directive and so on. What matters, which gives me the basis for this question, is also the letter from Dr. Anton Jurgetz, a former member of the board, a doctor of chemistry who, as a Slovenian, has reached the highest position in the administration of BMW, is now retired and asking for better cooperation in Bavaria. I am talking about the consulate, which is in the most inappropriate place in Munich, I am talking about the consulate in Munich, talking about the fact that there is an initiative to establish the Slovenian House in Munich, and I have before me a letter in German from a meeting attended by representatives of the Ministry of Economy, representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and a representative from the Ministry of Slovenians around the world. They were talking about economic diplomacy, about the Slovenian house I was talking about, and especially about the reintegration of young people, people who are students today, they were talking about exchange of students, especially students who are studying today at the Technical Faculty in Munich, which is, you know, among the five best technical colleges in Europe, they were talking about a dual school system that we will be able to run this year, but in particular they did not get any answers after this meeting they had, regarding the establishment of this Slovenian house in Munich. It is very important not only for economic diplomacy but also for all other societies, individuals operating in the area. Slovenian house would also present Slovenian cuisine, Slovenian tourism and everything else. So it would be some sort of retreat of the Munich delegation. And my question: What is the work in the field of economic diplomacy? Now I can only ask the Minister of Economic Affairs [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u307	Minister for Economic Development and Technology Mr Zdravko Restoršek, you have the floor to reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u308	Mr President, honourable Member, thank you for the question. Messengers and Members! At the outset, I would like to point out that economic diplomacy is under the responsibility of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which also leads, directs and monitors their effectiveness. However, I must say that the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, in the framework of promoting internationalisation in our competences, is also actively and excellently working with the Republic of Germany. As regards trade exchange, we were able to achieve record results in 2016. Germany is our most important external trading partner. Last year we created more than 11 billion trades and service exchanges. It is said that almost ten billion trades in goods, where we have surpluses, are one of the few countries with surpluses, as you said, and add almost a billion more to the service exchange. It should also be said that Germany is the third most important investor in the Slovenian economy. We cannot help but be present every year at the largest global tourism exchange in IIB Berlin and that our exceptional exposure and excellent promotion organisation, which we have carried out this year with the Slovenian Tourism Organisation, has helped us to be even more recognizable on the global market, not only on the German market, and that this visibility not only affects tourism, but also the economy in a broader sense. However, I cannot help but commend the excellent cooperation of the Ministry of Economic Affairs with the Embassy in Berlin, the Ambassador and the economic attaché, without which it would be difficult to achieve such good results. In doing so, I must point out – and I will do so again – the role of the ambassador in obtaining this last or, if you want, the largest foreign direct investment Magne in Maribor, because the first activities and those first important steps in this area have started with her assistance and coordination. I must also say that this year, 14 days ago, I had the opportunity, following the organisation of our embassy, to have a meeting with the German Minister of Economy, which is the first official meeting of our Ministry of Economic Affairs with Germany after ten years or, if you want, with the Minister, which is that Germany is our most important foreign trade partner, much. At this meeting we have also agreed on measures that will enable our good cooperation to continue, especially in the field of their Industry 4.0 programme and in the field of digitisation of our industry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u309	Mr. Franz Breznik, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u310	Thank you very much. I don't know if you heard my question entirely, that's, I also talked about the talks of the Slovenian-Babarian Economic Club, where the meeting of most experts and also some of your representatives were at these meetings. We are talking about Dr. Jurgetz – a man who was the head of the lab services who made his career, more than 30 years old in BMW, was in the most important functions, man knows what he's saying. When you spoke about Mrs. Marti Kos and her role in Magna's investment, it was likely that – yes, I met myself in 2012 with Mr. Pagech, owner of Magna, in Austria, we had several discussions on the subject of the company's arrival in Slovenia. This company wanted to come first to the Prekmurje area, just before the crisis, then we offered the area of the present – then the logistics centre of Oreh, as we called it in the first Janša government. And of course the whole history, which is also linked symbolically to the Pooh and everything else that was at this dinner. This is not only the credit of Mrs Marta Kos, but perhaps one of us was in the chain that we lobbyed for Magna's arrival in Slovenia. But I can tell you that ladies and gentlemen in Munich, the people who work, the Slovenians who work in Munich, ask themselves. The consulate in Munich looks something like this: it's in one block, no one knows where it is, among the 100 bells is written by the Consulate of Slovenia and then you're going to a totally inappropriate place. So in Bavaria, where, we can say, the key cooperation of these 4.0 industries, which we are talking about so many times. And I'm talking about the need to deepen these relationships. They gave an example of the Slovenian House, where there would be one source of all of this. If Mrs Marta Kos had the money for LGBT support for the pride parades in Berlin, she could spend more of that money on the Slovenian house in Munich, because I think it would be more important.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u311	Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Zdravko Restoršek, you have the floor to complete the response.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u312	I agree with you that our economic cooperation is particularly important within Germany with Bavaria, because with the southern three federal countries we make the majority of our trade in goods and services. I must say that I also agree that we must intensify this part with regard to the economic house, the consulate. If I am quite critical, our work as a tourist representative, based in Munich, must be upgraded, because the growth that is good is still too small in view of the proximity of Bavaria and in view of the potential we have in Bavaria, so we are also preparing measures in this area. These suggestions, which you cited for the Bavarian part itself, I take note of and we will listen to find better solutions. However, it must be said that in the last year we have carried out more activities in Germany. I would like to list some of them, together with partners and the Slovenian economy, we supported our companies at more than ten of the most important fairs in Germany from different sectors, thus allowing businesses to promote and connect business contacts. We have conducted several meetings of our suppliers from the automotive and other industries with business partners from Germany, who have thus managed to obtain more business opportunities in Germany. I must say that, within this framework, this crisis intervention meeting of Cimos with suppliers has also been organised through our economic diplomacy in Germany and economic and political work. I must say that we have made important progress in representing our food-processing industry in the KDW in Berlin, Kaufhaus des Westens, this is a mirror of the success of the food-processing industry, where all the countries of the world are represented in this eminent exhibition space. Nor can I pass here that any important role and assistance has been made by our Embassy in Berlin. Finally, we have carried out and will hold several investment conferences in Germany, and I believe that we will be successful in this area. On 18 May, I also open a new economic representation in Stuttgart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u313	Mr Franz Breznik, you have the floor for a procedural request to hold a debate on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u314	Thank you. I want a debate on this. I can provide you with a few things, I don't want to trouble you, and I know you can't give me all the answers, because it's partly linked to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but I want to say the following. I agree that we also extend our interests to Stuttgart because it is an important re-industrial centre, there are two giants, on the one hand Mercedes-Benz on the other side of Porsche as the most profitable German car manufacturer, which has amazing results in recent years, but the most important is the raceground in Munich, that is, the Slovenian House. An extremely good idea and a proposal to create a consulate in Munich is in one block where it is difficult to find and then between 100 switches you press and write a consulate of the Republic of Slovenia. [[…]] There to conclude, respected colleagues and colleagues, millions of businesses – let's say you're saving Cimos now, and you'll meet at the consulate in Munich in a block, in an apartment where you'll be saving a million-dollar deal with BMW. I don't think we can talk about this. We're not serious about this, my dear fellows. We have so much money on some things, we throw it out the windows. This is about important partners. Let me tell you, I also follow Cimos' rescue, I listen, I call the people who are in the BMW and everything else and they explain to me that the time of Cimos has come to an end. I can assure you that, too. No one will stand behind the people we called years ago to help us in any way with the BMW, with the other suppliers, Peugeot, Renault, all the others, because they spent the money. It just can't be on the same platform anymore. They can no longer be on the same platform because their internal processes are not digitised and can no longer be digitalised. It is a shame, we are losing much-needed competitiveness, and now is a real opportunity to consolidate these foundations, to deepen them and not to disperse some things, but to establish the right foundation with Germany. And the Slovenian House in Munich, Bavaria, which is as important as you said, we have billions of euros, we can say, trade only with Bavaria, is an important foundation. There can't be a consular office in one block, in one small apartment. Then there are also various societies, individuals; all who can, say, work in some way for our common country in various areas. So, honourable President of the National Assembly, I believe that we should have a debate on this subject, which is our key areas, and especially that we do not lose them, so that we do not make them worse, because it is a matter of survival. It's an important economic exchange and it's about survival. We cannot have such miserable places in cities such as Munich, the Consular Representation. And I wish that this Slovenian house in Munich was also created. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u315	Mr Franz Breznik, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Friday, 24 March 2017, in the framework of the votes. Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, you have the floor to ask the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Dr. Anji Kopač Dark.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u316	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, Members, Members and others present! On behalf of the Desus Group, I am the Prime Minister of the Government, and then I asked you a question: How and when will you address poverty among the elderly? Slovenia is one of the richest countries, so it is not justified that we have poor, hungry and homeless people who can no longer take care of their own work on the market. In 2015, 287 thousand people lived below the poverty threshold, of which 78 thousand were retired, and just above the poverty threshold there were 139 thousand more. Almost every fourth woman, over 64 years of age, lived in poverty. Almost every fifth person, aged 65 and over, lived in poverty in 2014. In 2015, the rate of poverty among employees aged 18 to 64 increased from 4.1% to 4.7%. Poverty also increased between pensioners up to 64 years from 11.8% to 13.6%. The number of long-term unemployed has increased. In 2014, the rate of long-term poverty increased significantly to 9.5%, still 8.1% in 2015. Since 2010, the country has also frozen pensions for the poorest pensioners, which has pushed them even deeper into poverty, and therefore the pensions reflect less and less the contributions paid. The pensions of most pensioners are therefore too low today, given their contributions paid by more than 8%. As a result of the freezing of pensions, they are compensated each year for about €440 million. Respected: Will and when will the Ministry of Labour table a legal proposal to eliminate this injustice to pensioners, as pensions should rise to the level they would have if there were no past freezes? I'm still asking: Will you and when will you make sure: to legalize a decent minimum pension, to legalize a decent minimum wage to support the family, to prevent employees from falling into poverty after retirement; to gradually increase employers' contributions to the level that we pay for pensions to workers; to provide adequate incentives to older people for post-retirement employment and to ensure that the Government provides for the introduction of free compulsory insurance for long-term care and for the abolition of payments for health services for the less wealthy, as it is unacceptable for the social state that the disease can lead to poverty? Dear Madam Minister: When and how, then, will you deal with poverty eradication among the elderly? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u317	Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anja Kopač Dark, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u318	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Respectable magus. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, thank you for asking. Just as you have started and said that the measures envisaged will not sufficiently address the issue of poverty, so I ask you whether you believe that those measures, which you have cited, would mean an end to the whole elimination of the problem of poverty. While we are aware, of course, that the problem of poverty among the elderly is mainly due to the situation in the labour market and that only 26.8% of pensioners in the Republic of Slovenia spend 40 years of retirement, which is a condition. And those who have completed the full pension period have an average of €815.27 of pensions, which means that their pension is 19% higher than the average pension of all old-age pensions, which in 2015 amounts to €683.21. So, how long an individual works is extremely important then for just the amount of the pension. The fact is, of course, that the amount of the pension also reflects the amount of the salary. Unfortunately, there are still two-thirds of wages in our country under the average wage, which currently amounts to around EUR 1 000 and the minimum wage is 614 net. This means that two thirds of the salary is between 600 and 1,000 euros. And then, if you look at the amount of pensions, unfortunately, it's all a total reflection of that. The minimum wage, today said, increased by 23% in 2010. As you know, even in this year's mandate, this is a complement to the exemption for minimum wage allowances. You also know that we have raised it and what debates were at the time of the increase and what role the governments and others played in this increase. On the other hand, you know there'll be a committee of 5. 4. dealt with the proposal of the law of ZPIZ, where we introduce a minimum pension for a full pension period, regardless of when it was carried out. This will happen to about 54,000 pensioners, mostly women, 29 000 women will get higher pensions because, above all, in the past, women could retire with significantly less completed retirement periods. On the other hand, we have introduced and is already in force a law that changes one of the fundamental criteria for granting the option of a protective supplement, i.e. real estate as well as what has been agreed within the coalition contract. On the other hand, we must not forget the social security programmes, where the ministry spends approximately EUR 800,000 per year on the elderly. In addition, the annual allowance will be paid higher this year. All pensioners will be entitled to the annual allowance, which will provide €21 million of additional funding. As regards the issues raised with regard to the gradual recovery of contributions, it should be said that the Economic and Social Council, at the end of April 2016, has set up a working group to prepare further adjustments to the pension system based on the origins of the White Paper on Pensions, whose task is to draw up a document with key measures and solutions in the area of pension and disability insurance. Within that working group, intensive negotiations are under way with the social partners on the basic parameters of the pension system, including the determination of the appropriate amount of the pension, as well as other parameters, and the level of the contribution is one of the parameters negotiated. Free compulsory insurance for long-term care has only passed through the coalition to another resort, health care allowance, the ministry – you know which is responsible, to encourage older people to work after retirement, and the system is not the most transparent, but the fact is that in the future a more flexible system will have to be done, only here we have always a question of jobs and the feeling that anyone could have a relationship between working and inactive populations – and, of course, the issues we have with the social partners in this regard. Such a question of poverty, unfortunately, is not so easy and the power to resolve with [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u319	Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, you have the floor to request an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u320	Thank you very much for your answer so far. True, the issue of poverty is difficult to solve, and on the other hand, it is not. If we look at what So, you asked me whether these measures would significantly address the issue of poverty. [[…]] I think so. If the law were a decent minimum pension, I am sure that this problem would be solved. If the law were a decent minimum wage, I'm sure this problem would be solved. Of course, the problem of funding could be solved if employers paid as much as we pay the workers. And the difference that now comes from the state budget could then solve the problem of the baby-boom generation that is coming. But these are, of course, things I expected to hear from you. On the other hand, the freezing of pensions has caused terrible injustice to existing pensioners: €440 million each month. It means, of course, that with these 440 million, a number of people who have fallen because of this measure under the poverty threshold would go beyond poverty. So you'd get rid of a lot of this problem. However, I am concerned about the impact of this Protection Supplement Act, because in response to Mrs Eva Irgl, you said that the number of those who would now be added to the protection allowance should be only 5,000. I don't know if it's a mistake or not, but then, of course, it means that it wouldn't have a significant impact on reducing poverty among the elderly. So I would really like you to comment on these measures that I have proposed to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u321	Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anja Kopač Mrak, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u322	As far as a decent pension is concerned, it is in line with the EUR 500 DUS, which is above the threshold. You didn't tell me the amount of decent pensions you'd suggest. Unfortunately, the amount of the pension — as I said before — is linked to the previous salary, the contributions paid, the average pension, those who have worked for 40 years — is over €800, unfortunately not much, but it will take some justice to respond to those who have worked for 40 years, to have a higher salary, why they have almost as much pension as you would minimumly set it. In short, there are also questions, because I believe that you are aware of the actuarial fact that the pension payment is primarily a pension right derived from contributions from work and is, of course, linked in its base to the level of salary as such. But inside the system, we have important solidarity. Here inside we can speak quite like what we could be and what we would all like a decent pension and would certainly afford everyone a very high pension. However, it is a question of course, given the average wage, which I told you earlier, that unfortunately two thirds of people deserve less today than the average wage in the Republic of Slovenia and that unfortunately this affects only the amount of the pension. As for the minimum wage, we raised it, I would like it to be above the poverty risk threshold for a single person this year. I'm afraid we didn't make it. You heard a debate that, if there was a need for harmonisation, would be even lower than it actually was. In short, in accordance with my responsibilities as Minister, I am trying, and the fact is that the Government – and you know this because you were the Minister of Culture, how difficult it was in your area to reach your wishes and, of course, you could talk about what was done in your area within the framework of the Government in which it is. I am doing my best to make sure that both the Government and all of us are going in the direction of providing people with a decent pension to improve opportunities, but unfortunately in this place it would be irresponsible for me to promise people that tomorrow they will have a decent pension all in 800-900 euros or more, because this is simply unfortunate in view of the situation in the labour market in this country, given the average wage and the link between the pension system and the market system, unfortunately not possible at this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u323	Mrs Janja Slug, you have the floor to ask the Minister without a department responsible for development, strategic projects and the cohesion of Mrs Alenka Smercolj.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u324	Thank you very much. Dear Minister! Last week, we heard a positive report on the drawing-up of European funds on the Committee on European Union Affairs. When it comes to the 2007-2013 programming period, your service can boast that we have compensated for the loss of European funds that threatened Slovenia at the time of our government's appearance. The former governments have not been successful in drawing up and the Government of Development and Cohesion Service has made up for the delays and has actually raised Slovenia from 19th to 4th since the efficiency of the draw. In the new 2014-2020 programming period, 180 projects worth more than €870 million have been supported so far, almost 30% of the available resources, and this is undoubtedly an excellent achievement. However, by the Savinja Region Council, composed of the mayors of 31 municipalities of Savina region, you have received a proposal to amend the Operational Programme of European Cohesion Policy for the period 2014-2020. The parishioners of the Savina region state that this step was decided by the modest use of funds. They also point out that there are no calls for proposals and that the review of the money spent shows a very poor share of the benefit of the European funds obtained from each priority axis. Likewise, the mayors consider that too much investment is intended for only larger municipalities and mention 26% of the drawdown, which they consider to be a failure. Now I'm asking you: Does the Council of the Savini region hold these statements? In particular, the fact that there are no calls for proposals and that the review of the money spent shows a very poor share of the use of the funds obtained by individual axis values. What do you also think of the changes proposed by the mayors of the Savinja region Council? Are these changes necessary and feasible? And: Would it be possible to listen to local communities and adjust these projects to their needs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u325	Minister without a department responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion, Mrs Alenka Smerkolj, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u326	Dear President, honourable Member, honourable Members! Thank you for that question. It is true, I have listened carefully and you have summed up what we have reported correctly last week on the Committee on European Union Affairs. Maybe we would have touched one fact. It's not our job that's commendable. The fact is that cohesion policy is implemented through the relevant departments, and the lion's share is of course – we must also commend them and also all the beneficiaries who have actually led us to success in the past period. When we talk about this period, we often hear criticism. I also explain several times where we really are, and here I can only correct the fact. It's true, last week we were still at 870 million, now we've come over 900, exactly to 905, and we've issued 184 decisions of support. What does that mean? This means that there are just as many projects or programmes or calls for proposals already under way, that is 30% of the total. What needs to be said, however, is that when one decision comes on support, costs and eligible expenses do not begin to generate immediately, but there is always a break. In fact, these costs begin to generate or consequently return to the Slovenian budget only when calls are made when the programmes are launched when co-financing contracts are signed. If we continue with the dynamics we started with, then by 2020 we will have made some decisions on support for the entire operational programme. Why do I call it 2020? The eligible expenditure of this programming period shall be until 2023. Many times, and I would like to say this again, because every day I hear that we are already in the middle and that the pumping is going slowly, we have almost seven years to that date and that we should have it in our head. However, I must stress that we understand the concern not only of the Savinja region, but also of all other Slovenian regions. Together with colleagues at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, they are, of course, responsible for regional development, we are trying not only to listen, but also to hear the regions. Right now, an additional €56 million of the so-called technical correction allows us to open an operational programme and we have actually joined it. However, there is a possibility of what we can finance and what we can put into agreement for the development of the regions, and we cannot adapt them to local communities – even if we want to – because, on the one hand, we are limited by the regulatory framework and, on the other hand, the level of resources itself. During the previous programming period, we had over 4 billion or if I sum up, this year we have more than one billion less funds in this programming period, or in the Cohesion Fund and the Regional Development Fund, where regions want their projects, we have more than 30% reduced and we cannot want more resources here. Here is what is necessary, and here I will appeal to all regions, not only to Savino, if in the previous perspective we had €600 million for regional development, there are rather unrealistic expectations that each region, as well as the proposal and initiative of the Savino region, will be able to access €280 million. Because a simple calculation shows that we're going through what we're talking about. We are absolutely doing an account here without the innkeeper, and there is also a need to balance expectations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u327	Mrs. Janja Sluga, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u328	You have probably reviewed this initiative of the Savino region Council, and there are probably more concrete proposals, but I would still ask for your opinion: To what extent would these adjustments be possible, or should we meet anywhere on this road?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u329	Minister without a resource responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion, Mrs Alenka Smerkolj, you have the floor to complete the response.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u330	Thank you very much. We have received the initiative of the Savinja region today. When I was in the National Assembly, she actually came and I looked at her for a quick checkup. I think a few ideas can be realized if we all balance expectations. Since what we are trying to do is actually allow the regions to actually try to come, in the framework of the agreements and in the territorial dialogue with the MGRT, or on the axes where they have expressed the most interest, these are, say, drinking, waste water, urban mobility, energy recovery, especially in these infrastructure parts; I don't know, they are also, of course, the third development axis, this is all one part of this whole. So I believe that with one constructive dialogue we will be able to solve a lot of things, but certainly in our dreams we will not be able to get close to half of what was happening for all regions, and we have 12 of them in the previous programming period. When we're all real, all of us with good faith, and if we want to find the right path, I believe we can find it. We will already, I hope, by the end of this month, to draw up an upgraded proposal, with one proposal to amend the operational programme we have actually proposed to the regions, so I hope that we will actually get closer to them, but the manoeuvre space, unfortunately, is not very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u331	Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec, you have the floor to ask the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anji Kopač Dark.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u332	Thank you very much, President. Minister! The proposal of the Family Code introduces a so-called pre-nuptial contract or, as defined in the law, a contract on the regulation of property and legal relations. This is a new institution that poses a major threat to the situation of women in particular, but everything – not only does the New Institute not provide any cauldrons, as it is now set up, i.e. precautionary measures or any guardians, but it allows the spouses to completely avoid the legal property regime and to set up mutual property relations for both the duration of the marriage and the case of divorce. [[…]] This new arrangement, which allows spouses to completely avoid this regime, poses in particular a threat to property equality between spouses. This type of contract allows for agreements that could cause great damage to one of the spouses, arrangements that can put one of the spouses in an economically subordinate position. Such a system of subordinates may be a force in exceptional situations, even though they do not want it, or the marriage becomes, or has already become, harmful to the marriage itself or to potential children. In the explanations of the articles of the bill, the Ministry refers in several places to the principle of property equality between men and women and to the particular nature of the community represented by the marriage union. In the same breath, the introduction of the so-called pre-nuptial contract forgets the stated principles of property equality between spouses and the marriage is thus subject to some economic logic and to the abstract principles of civil law. The need to establish such an institution has not been reinforced by one single argument. That's why I'm asking you three: What is the real reason for this institution to replace the legal property regime? In addition to purely legal reasons, I am particularly interested in the professional arguments which point to the need to establish such an institution. Did the Ministry, when preparing the Family Code proposal, foresee all possible negative consequences of the establishment of this institute? If the answer is yes: What negative consequences have been foreseen by the Ministry and what measures will it take to avoid the abuse of this new regime? And finally: In what sense does such a circuit of a legitimate property regime help to promote the ideal of property equality between spouses?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u333	Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anja Kopač Dark, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u334	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you for asking, Mr Members. The contractual property regime is one of the novelties of the proposal to regulate the matrimonial property regime. Initially, it should be pointed out that such a contract is not an obligation, but merely an option afforded by the Code to spouses. Indeed, the conclusion of the marriage itself is also the conclusion of an agreement on the matrimonial property regime, as prescribed or envisaged by the law. The contract on the regulation of property relations is therefore a contract with which the spouses agree on the content of their property regime, which is different from that of the legal regime. It also provides for the agreement of other property conditions for the duration of the marriage as well as for the case of divorce. For her to marry a spouse or a prospective spouse, they decide when the legal property regime does not suit them and want to be more precise, in accordance with their own wishes and needs, to agree on the fate of their property. In conclusion, a contract on the regulation of property law shall agree on both matters relating to the management and disposal of their property during the duration of the marriage and on how the property will be distributed in the event of a divorce. I repeat that it is only an opportunity offered by the Code to spouses and that we do not see a reason why two adults would not allow the possibility of mutual property relations to be regulated differently from the law. Even with existing legislation, an element of the mutual property regime between spouses can be arranged in agreement. For example, spouses can agree on the amount of maintenance that one spouse has to pay to another. A maintenance agreement is one of the possible content of an agreement on the regulation of matrimonial property situations. The spouse may be agreed upon at the time of divorce to share the common property, where it is also possible that the division is expressly in favour of one of the spouses. The latter is expected to be the main risk in the conclusion of agreements on the regulation of matrimonial property relations. In the area of inheritance, the spouse may also give up the inheritance after the other spouse, including the necessary share. Certain effects of the proposed agreement on the regulation of property relations can be achieved by the spouse even today with other forms of civil contracts. One of the reasons why the family code proposes the possibility of concluding a contract on the regulation of matrimonial property situations is, therefore, precisely in the system-wide regulation of an area which is not regulated, even though in practice the elements of it remain. This is a proposed solution in the direction of greater protection and legal certainty for both spouses in the possible conclusion of such agreements. The proposed proposal of the Code stresses that the notary will have to explain to the spouses what the conclusion of such a contract actually means or what the difference is in relation to the legal property regime. We expect that the notary will have to be particularly careful in cases where the content of the asset management contract is apparent for the benefit of one of the spouses or for the harm of the other. In addition, the Code provides for the obligation for spouses to disclose their financial plan in full or in truth in the case of a contract for the regulation of property relations. If one of them fails to do so, the other will be able to challenge such a contract on the regulation of property relations. With regard to warnings that an economically or otherwise weaker spouse could be forced to sign such a contract, it is important to note in general the principle of the validity of contracts under which a contract signed on the basis of coercion, threat or error can be challenged. It is also true in this context to note that under the husband's compulsion to sign a contract, we also consider the form of domestic violence because we have a special law with a number of measures to protect victims. Among other things, last year's amendment to the Law on the Prevention of Domestic Violence extended the possibility of obtaining free legal aid for victims. It is interesting, however, that in the process of preparing and coordinating the Proposal for a Family Code, which has now been under consideration and public debate for three months, we organised two major public consultations with 140 participants, all parliamentary groups were invited. According to my information, your Group did not participate and we did not get any comments on such issues. Otherwise, the Family Code brings a lot of news in the area of family relations, and we have agreed to set up a special interdepartmental working group, which includes all other important stakeholders, which will only monitor implementation after analysis.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u335	Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec, you have the floor to request an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u336	Thank you. Apparently, some concerns appear too late, but I think it's still time to get rid of them. What you have stated is, in some way, a justification for the fact that there are, of course, some elements that justify such an institution being listed, but as you yourself have said, we already know certain forms that allow it, and I am trying to question this institution, as it is written in this law. What I miss is professional arguments, some statistical analysis that would suggest the need to have such an institution – whether the existing forms of such arrangements are already ineffective or otherwise. I would also like to remind you that the explanations of the articles of the law clearly state that by regulating common property, we are approaching to the greatest extent the ideal of property equality between men and women. At the same time, the agreement on the regulation of these property relationships of this common property arrangement is simply ousted and, of course, also distances itself from this declared idea of property equality between spouses. And you also said that this contract is like any contract, I think it's some other kind of contract, even some other kind of relationship, because if it were that it's a regular contract, it could be governed by a simple Bond Code, but it's another relationship, so it fits in the Family Code or the law governing family relations and marriage. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the Council of Europe Resolution on the Equality of Married Persons in Civil Law, which proposes that Member States take all necessary measures to ensure that civil law does not contain provisions allowing one spouse to prevail over another and also proposes a new provision to national law, does not allow one or another of the spouses to cancel or transfer management entitlements to another spouse irrevocably. If you can give some kind of explanation in this direction.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u337	Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anja Kopač Mrak, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u338	Thank you. This regulation was already included in the proposal of the Family Code in 2012 and was generally adopted, never problematic. The fact is that most European countries also have this option. I allow the possibility of your argument that if someone were to be significantly weaker and forced into this treaty, I have made it very clear that there are possibilities of challenge. It is, of course, important to stress that it is adults who are voluntarily reporting, and therefore I think it is appropriate to leave them a certain free will if they want to. No one forces them to adopt a different property regime. However, if possible, this transparent regime now makes this much clearer than now that such contracts exist and are subject to separate individual aspects, while the court has long argued on different types of issues. However, as I have said, the implementation group will also closely monitor only the preparation to ensure that both the skills of notaries, the judicial branches of authorities and the social work centres, and, on the other hand, the same group will monitor everything that is going on in this regard. If there are any anomalies, it is always possible to change the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u339	Miha Kordish, you have the floor to ask the Minister of Justice a question. Goran Klemenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u340	Thank you for your word, chairman. Many workers who are employed in companies on their way to bankruptcy note that there are still problems in practice with the payment of unpaid salaries and discharges. The system of enforcement of rights, either in insolvency proceedings or in compensation under the Public Guarantee, Maintenance and Disability Fund Act, is still based on requirements for workers to claim and enforce their unpaid salaries, allowances, pensions and other labour costs, and so on, and this is the problem. I will give you a concrete example, which is the reason for my question today, namely the bankruptcy of the construction company Technik in Škofja Loka. On that day, a former employee in this company who went bankrupt came forward one month after this started, but this man completed 40 years of work in this company, went to retirement, but was still waiting for his salary to be paid. The rest of the workers who lost their jobs were paid with fund withdrawals, but this man should be entitled to a retirement or three wages of bankruptcy and, of course, he has not yet seen these salaries. Anyway, I'm going to ask the questions: Is the Ministry considering changes in legislation to ensure the rapid and effective protection of workers in the event of insolvency proceedings? Does the Ministry consider changes in the area of the enforcement of workers' rights in bankruptcy proceedings, which would not impose the burden of timely and effective exercise of rights on workers themselves? Will the Ministry prepare changes in the case of insolvency proceedings to create a specific fund or fund within an undertaking to ensure that workers are paid immediately at the start of the procedure? Is the Ministry aware of the problems with the payment of pensions encountered by workers who retire after the start of the bankruptcy procedure? I have previously cited this case directly from practice. Is the Ministry of the Protection of Workers in Insolvency Procedure preparing any changes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u341	Minister of Justice Mag. Goran Klemenčič, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u342	Mr President, thank you so much for your words. Mr Kordish, Commissioner, you have raised quite a number of questions that are very difficult to answer briefly. You also mentioned a specific case that I do not know, but we will, for example, take a look at what is going on with it. Even this person you've exposed can finally turn to us. The basic purpose of each bankruptcy procedure is to close all legal relationships of the insolvency debtor and in principle apply the principle of equal treatment of creditors. Of course, among creditors, vulnerable groups need to be protected, these are primary workers, and this is what our bankruptcy legislation does. Perhaps not quite at the beginning when it was adopted, but over time it improved in the sense that each novel gave some more rights to workers and that workers were given a better and more priority than other ordinary creditors of the insolvent debtor. It is also important to be aware of this, and I know this because last year we brought together a special novelty of bankruptcy legislation, where we had a lot of social dialogue, to trade unions. In bankruptcy proceedings, the opposite does not always stand alone, I do not know, but banks on the one hand and only employees on the other. The specificity of our bankruptcy procedures is often that bankruptcy creditors are also small subcontractors. You know, espouses who have their employees, who are also in a vulnerable position. And here looking for the right answer is actually pretty hard. But I can answer that if we compare our bankruptcy legislation with foreign legislation, even after a change that also occurred in this mandate less than one year ago, we have significantly expanded the exact set of priority claims for workers. As a priority claim for the current regime, 6 monthly wages are protected from insolvency proceedings, as are all claims for unpaid contributions from workers. ZFPIPP, as we call it, is a law, say insolvency law, so workers, despite the fact that their claims to the employer are generally not secured by a mortgage or a lien right, gives them a special position. Still, if there is nothing to be taken from bankruptcy, it is so difficult to give workers. The idea of creating specific funds within bankruptcy is not possible. Why? Because first the bankruptcy mass has to be created. As a rule, bankruptcy debtors do not have liquidity assets, is property in the form of real estate and so on. This is an attempt to sell, cash and so on and then from this bankruptcy mass some of the priority or regular claims then pay off creditors, among whom, as it is said, workers already have a priority status. The bankruptcy procedure is also a legal procedure and cannot be automatic, creditors must exercise their rights and must declare their claims. Here, too, the law allows certain procedures in the case of workers. Whether these are sufficient – surely in the case of certain groups of workers, this is a heavy burden, but we do not yet have, we do not see any way to increase it. They shall have the opportunity, through the common authority, to report their ordinary and priority claims and so on. With regard to the problems with the payment of the pension, which you mentioned in the specific case, I have therefore cut my ears – we are not aware that problems would arise in practice. It should also be said that, according to our legislation, as last year's amended legislation, employees' pensions are, in fact, treated as priority claims. It is said that there is still some specificity in favour of workers. Finally, let me point out that we are open to all good ideas in this area, but we need to look for some real measure between, as we say, other creditors. I would also like to say this, see, last week or 14 days ago, the Government confirmed the amendment of the Penal Code, which specifically facilitates the prosecution of offences against workers' rights, social protection rights and also the criminal offence of damaging creditors. With this I just wanted to say that at least as far as the Ministry of Justice is concerned, I can honestly say that we are not immune – we are trying to be heard for the problems in which the weaker parties find themselves in these procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u343	Miha Kordish, you have the floor to request a complete response.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u344	Thank you for your word, chairman. Because that particular example here I mentioned as an illustration, it is correct from the first big start to the last peak and it is a case, otherwise only one worker came to me, but it is an example of some three people who were in such trouble that they went to retirement and left without a discharge because the company went bankrupt in the middle. But what I'm really interested in in this addition is that I understand the problem of creating a special fund within a firm that went bankrupt because the company doesn't have liquid assets and so on, O.K., I understand that. But I don't know why we would write off the automatic exercise of labour rights at the beginning. Thus, it is not the workers themselves who must claim and enforce their severance on paid wages and so on. Why doesn't this happen after the defolk when some firm goes into bankruptcy?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u345	Minister of Justice Mag. Goran Klemenčič, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u346	Thank you. Perhaps if my colleagues were here dealing with this law, they would generally say 200 reasons why this is not possible. It's kind of intrinsic, which the lawyer in court, you know, doesn't go in context. It's a court case where there's no automaticity. You can't put someone after automation into some sort of procedure. You can only do this with a person who is deprived of his or her business ability or who is an adult. You know, for a child, there's something that can be done automatically and so on. In addition, we have tried in law to make it extremely easy for workers to exercise their rights in the process. Of course, rights are priority rights, but they are also non-priority rights. You have, I don't know, the rights that come out, like wages, but they're retirements, and they're salaries, and they're overtime, and they're a bunch of other rights. Then you also have some things, from different credits and so on, which are not priorities. There are colleagues in different situations here. That is why we have this correction, which is a guarantee fund and I am not saying that there is nothing more to improve. But I'm going to say this in the end, too. I didn't compromise earlier with that particular case of yours. I just wanted to say that if other people were paid for their salaries, not those who should have been paid for their retirement, then something was wrong. Now, what was wrong is another question, but in such a case it is possible to turn to us in the final stage. Not that we're going to interfere with specific procedures, but to see what's going on. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u347	I thank the ministers and ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government for the answers given. I hereby end this agenda item, which we will continue on Friday, 24 March 2017, when the National Assembly, in the framework of the votes, decides on the proposed conclusions. I am also adjourning the 28th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m.
