ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm starting with the 29th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Alenka Bratušek, Mrs Iva Dimic from 16:00 on, Mrs Ljudmila Novak from 13:00 to 17:00, mag. Matthew Tonin by 12 noon, Mr Jernej Vrtovec by 12 noon, Mr. Franz Jurša, Mr. Franc Laj, Dr. Bojan Dobovšek, Dr. László Göncz after 14:00, Mr. Matjaž Han, Mr. Dušan Radič, mag. Alexander Kavčič, Dr. Matej T. Vatovec by 12 noon and Matjaž Hanžek by 12 noon. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 3. PERIOD OF THE DAY – THIS IS A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF A SUPPORT LEGISLATION LEGISLATION FOR TRANSPORT IN ROAD TRAVEL AFTER A PRINCIPAL PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by a group of six Members and Members, first signed by Miho Kordiš. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to Mr Igor Zorčič, Chairman of the Committee, to further explain the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u2	Mr. President, thank you for saying so! Dear Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is held at its 27th meeting, on 5. 4. 2017 as a parent working body, the draft law on amendments to the Road Transport Act submitted by a group of Members and Members, signed by Miho Kordiš, to the National Assembly for consideration on a regular basis. Amendments to Articles 1, 2 and 3 of the United Left Group were tabled within the time limit. In the supplementary explanation, the applicant explained that the aim of the law is to ensure safe employment for all drivers carrying out road transport. Road transport is an area where workers do not have regular working relationships for a fixed or indefinite period, but in particular the conclusion of business contracts and work through student travel. Thus, they do not have adequate social security, and they often miss payments for their work, while at the same time the nature of their work forces them into overwork or work without rest. As a result, it is desirable to provide for a provision whereby drivers should have a contract of employment and evidence of paid salaries and contributions for the past 3 months to enable drivers to have minimum social and economic security and to allow work inspections to be facilitated. The second major change is the mandatory installation of a tachograph in all two-track vehicles with a vehicle height above the first axle of 1.3 metres or more and all vehicles whose maximum permissible mass does not exceed 3000 500 kilograms and is designed and designed to carry more than 6 passengers next to the driver, and requires that the provisions of the law governing working hours and the mandatory rest of mobile workers apply to drivers of these vehicles. He pointed out that he wanted to avoid frequent cases where the driver’s payment was linked to miles of transportation, forcing them to work excessively, making them tired and sleepy and dangerous to themselves, to passengers and other road users. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service commented from the written opinion of this service that further clarification should be given in particular to the question on which of the proposed legal changes are related. It follows from the objectives of the proposal that it should be a substantial change, namely compulsory employment of drivers for a certain or indefinite period of time, related to the domestic carrier. He pointed out that this starting point in the draft law itself was not consistently implemented, but even in view of the inclusion of this requirement in the individual articles it is possible to understand that this requirement should also apply to foreign carriers. However, he also pointed out a proposal for a law that the carriage of goods and persons may be carried out only if the driver of a vehicle with the carrier has a fixed or indefinite contract of employment, which, by its content, effect and effect, means the establishment of additional conditions for the operation of economic operators, thereby narrowing down the field of business freedom. With regard to the solutions contained in the draft law, the representative of the Government stressed that, in the view of the Government, with regard to the mandatory installation of tachographs for the vehicles mentioned above, it is more appropriate to regulate uniformly at EU level, within the framework of the proposed amendments to the Regulation governing the rules on driving times, breaks and rest of vehicles and drivers. He pointed out that no EU Member State currently has a legal obligation to require the installation of tachographs in this type or in this type of vehicle. The implementation of such a regulation only for Slovenian carriers is more difficult for them than for foreign carriers in Slovenia and Europe, which consequently means lower competitiveness, additional costs and additional administrative burden. It points out that, in view of all the concerns expressed in the proposal, the Government does not support the law. In presenting their written opinion, the President of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development pointed out that he did not support the bill. While it points out that the Commission supports efforts to prevent all forms of penitentiary work, this area must be regulated by a system-wide law for all areas of social life and not only for the field of transport, it is necessary to strengthen effective control and provide for appropriate sanctions. In particular, similar opinions were heard by the coalition members, and similar opinions were also advocated in their presentations by representatives of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the representative of the Transport Workers and Association of Slovenia Trade Union. It was pointed out that they understood the intention of the applicant to ensure safety of employment for road users. Some expressed their belief that most carriers respect the legislation that provides for mandatory rest periods for mobile workers, but at the same time agreed with the proposaler's opinion that there are individual cases of bad practices between drivers that require considerably longer driving intervals than legislation allows. However, according to the majority opinion, it is appropriate to regulate the obligation to install tachographs in combined vehicles uniformly at EU level, especially since no EU Member State currently has a legal obligation to require the installation of tachographs in such vehicles. After the discussion, the Committee adopted the following decision, namely: "The proposal for a law supplementing the Road Transport Act is not suitable for further consideration." 12 votes in favour, one against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u3	I give the floor to the representative of the drafters of the Mihi Kordiš bill for presentation of the position on the proposal of the mother's working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, chairman. Exploitation, time of illness, payment by miles, driving, which also lasts for more than 24 hours without rest, poor control and a race to the bottom in the misery of wages between employers. These are just some of the things that professional drivers in the road transport industry must bear. The situation for them is becoming unsustainable. We are witnessing such social dumping, such exaggeration of work and such a deterioration of working conditions that it is no longer just touching the drivers who are, of course, the first victims of these shameless exploitative practices, but becoming a broader problem. These people are driving overworked, so they suffer from traffic safety, which of course concerns all road users. In order to improve the situation in the United Left, we have tabled a new law on road transport rules, which we are dealing with today. The goals of the marriage are clear. First, regular jobs for all drivers. This shall be done by ensuring that the driver of the vehicle must have a fixed-term or indefinite contract of employment of the holder of the licence to carry out road transport operations. And secondly, the installation of tachographs in all combined vehicles. Here we have focused on enabling van drivers on out-of-way transport to have adequate rest time and inspection services adequate control over the implementation of this rest and working time of these drivers. Regular employment would improve the social security of drivers. Those who are now doing this work under custodial conditions. this would give us the possibility of paid hospital, vacation, regression and everything else, because it still comes to all the workers, but unfortunately not in Slovenian society. And the drivers would no longer be forced to scratch each other for cheaply paid miles. Nothing more would drive sleepless, tired, often sick than it is now. The installation of tachographs in the van would allow these drivers to rest and the space to be used would be less. All of this would contribute to greater road safety for all road users not only for drivers themselves, but also for their passengers and other people they meet on the road. During the legislative process, many things have been reported to us in the United Left as proponents of this law. To make it impossible for firefighters to take their children to the Plains to prevent craftsmen, such as plumbers, normal field work and so on. We have denied all these claims and rejected them during the legislative procedure. We have also been told that we are going after honest entrepreneurs who employ and pay their workers well. That's not true. Fair transporters would lose nothing by enforcing our law, except unfair competition. You have told us that we are imposing administrative obstacles on the economy, although you say that tachographs themselves will be introduced by the amendments to European regulations, and that the contract of employment in the vehicle would not really be any administrative burden that carriers would not be able to bear. All these arguments, on the basis of which you claim that our law is inappropriate for further consideration, are completely empty. Inadequate for further consideration, our law is simply because we want to reduce the misery of drivers at the expense of the brilliance and wealth of the transport capitalists. All those who vote that our law is unfit for further consideration will vote in favour of exploitation, non-life working conditions and the misery that professional drivers live in. After all, you will also vote for the death of all those who will sooner or later die in a traffic accident caused by exhaustion by one of these drivers because they have to work under these conditions because they do not have another, because they cannot. Therefore, I urge you to think carefully about which key you will press when voting on our law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u5	I give the floor to the representative of the Government to the State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure, Mag. I'm putting pressure on it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u6	Thank you, President. Dear Members and Members! The draft law on amendments to the Road Transport Act, submitted by a group of Members and Members with Mr Miho Kordiš, to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, contains the following matters. On the basis of that proposal, the installation of a tachograph would also be necessary for two-track vehicles with a vehicle height above the first axle of 1.3 metres or more and for vehicles with a maximum mass not exceeding 3 thousand 500 kilograms and designed and constructed for the transport of more than 6 passengers by the driver. In addition, the proposal of the law also provides that, as a condition for the entry into service of transport, transport may be carried out only if the driver of a vehicle with a carrier has a fixed-term or indefinite contract of employment. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers it more appropriate to regulate this area uniformly at European Union level in the context of the proposed amendments to Regulation 561/2006 laying down rules on driving times, breaks and rest of drivers. The procedure for amending the regulation of the European Union will begin at the end of May with a presentation by the European Commission, i.e. within one month. With regard to employment, however, the Government considers that it is in the most systematic sense that this is governed primarily by the umbrella labour law as regulated elsewhere in the European Union. Therefore, there is no need for further regulation of the field of employment in the Road Transport Act. It follows from the above that the Government does not support the Proposal for a Law on Complements of the Road Transport Act, which is also based on its opinion on the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u7	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Ivan Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Members and Members of the Desus Group will support the proposal for a conclusion that the proposal for a law supplementing the Road Transport Act is not suitable for further consideration. We agree with the opinion of the Government, which has also been endorsed by the State Council, as well as by interested associations, such as the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, that the issue of mandatory fitting of tachographs into so-called easier vehicles must first be regulated uniformly at European Union level, and then the requirements of European legislation must be transferred to the Slovenian legal order. It is envisaged that this issue and the related issues will be addressed by the European Commission in the mobility package at the end of May. If an EU agreement is reached at European level to legally establish the mandatory installation of tachographs also in vans at the level of the European Union as a whole, we will avoid unequal treatment of domestic carriers compared to foreign carriers, because if this bill is adopted, tachographs should only be installed in vehicles registered in Slovenia. We also agree with the Government's view that labour relations are regulated by the Labour Relations Act and therefore there is no need for further regulation in this law. At the same time, they would also be in a position to apply this obligation only to carriers established in Slovenia. Although the Desus Group has not supported this bill, we support all efforts to prevent any form of penal work. However, we believe that work is a systemic problem that needs to be addressed in all areas, while at the same time it is another area where there is a need for coordinated and effective supervision of the implementation of the legislation in force. Finally, let me reiterate that in the Desus Group we will support the conclusion that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u9	The text is given by the Joint Left Group, for which Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice hello to you all! Safe employment for all road hauliers, mandatory tachograph fences in all combined vehicles used for road transport and, of course, resulting in an increase in traffic safety. These are the objectives of the draft amendment that we have tabled and let me explain again why. Transport is one of the industries in Slovenia, where we are witnessing paid and social dumping, the deterioration of working conditions, the increasing exploitation and the race to the bottom in who will actually pay the workers more and more. We are aware of this, both in the United Left and in the Department of Capital, as are representatives of capital, who, in fact, defend the changes brought by this novel, because they know that this means the end of the exploitation of workers and also the enrichment at their expense. The government says that there is no reason for the adoption of a law that would require licensees to carry out road transport operations to hire their drivers on a regular basis. In doing so, they refer to the Labour Relations Act which provides for the obligation to conclude a contract of employment where the elements of the employment relationship are given in a particular case. This provision does exist, but unfortunately it has not been implemented in practice for a long time, and the Government and this coalition, as well as everyone else, know very well. This is one of the most common and systematic violations of the Labour Relations Act, especially in sectors such as transport, but the government does nothing. In the United Left, we have proposed a new Law on the Inspection of Work with a proposal that inspectors should have the opportunity, in the event of a determination of the existence of a working relationship, to impose on the employer to hire workers, but the Government has opposed it, although this would in practice allow the application of a provision to which the Government refers in its opposition to our law that we are considering today. The coalition is uncritical, unfortunately I must also say, it is expected to sum up the government's position, but at the same time it points out that we need only more control in the transport industry, if control will solve all the problems. This implicitly admits that something is seriously wrong in the transport industry. Let's just touch surveillance. Currently in Slovenia we have 71 inspectors, labour inspectors responsible for reviewing and enforcing labour law on the whole of Slovenia. Moreover, they themselves cannot actually monitor the contractual relationship between drivers because they do not even have the authority to stop and inspect drivers or drivers. In the United Left, every year since we have been in the National Assembly, we have been proposing amendments to the budget, demanding an increase in the resources of the Labour Inspectorate, of course, in order to increase the number of inspectors and inspectors. Every time those people who argue in our law about the need for enhanced supervision vote against our proposal. It is the obvious and shameless duality of SMC and its coalition partners. In the United Left, we have proposed an amendment aimed at protecting at least a little of the workers in one of the most severely exploited industries. They do not create profits in transport, mainly do not create information platforms, fleets of vans, buses, heavy trucks, create work. It's created by workers, drivers and drivers. They say that in exchange for this they receive a fair payment, regular employment, the possibility of adequate rest both in and outside the workplace. This, of course, will not only make them better, so we will be better and safer in fact all road users. That is why, of course, in the United Left, we will vote against the decision on the inappropriateness of our law for further consideration. And since I have some time left – we say systemically that, systemic that, we will systematically solve it, see, spending both here and in tourism and after all in the younger generations in science, we could now count half an hour, is actually violence of this and such a system. Of course, we need a different alternative political economy and a different social and economic system on which we are working in the United Left. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u11	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr Zvonko Lah, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u12	Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! It is stated in the bill that this law will make it impossible for us to work as we spend more and more often and more often on the work employed by employers in Slovenia. We note that overwork is mainly a major increase in activities where this is much more difficult to prove. Road transport is only one such activity. In New Slovenia, we propose that we do this in a different way, i.e. at source. Our programme states that a country with an appropriate tax policy must enable businesses to be more competitive and relieve them of excessive labour costs. If we were to pursue the objective of reducing labour costs, we would not be discussing this issue today. The work in Slovenia is taxed above average. The Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, the OECD, notes that the average tax burden in the Member States in 2015 was 35.9%, while the tax on an employed childless worker in Slovenia was 42.6%. In Slovenia, among the 34 members, the 10th is the most burdensome. High labour taxation, according to the Director-General of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, is the main reason why employers are looking for shortcuts and employees are employed on the spot. Almost all stakeholders are disadvantaged in their criminal work: workers lack social and financial stability due to lack of rights, and the country receives only minimal contributions from these workers. In the New Slovenia Group, we strive to make Slovenia a place where enough jobs for all citizens, where every decent work is valued and where the worker for the work he does is well paid. The law also proposes that the driver of a domestic carrier should be employed for a fixed or indefinite period of time and have a contract of employment with him during his driving. In addition to this guard, the applicant also proposed the mandatory installation of tachographs in all vehicles used for commercial transport of persons and goods by road, two-way vehicles with a height above the first axis of 1.3 metres or more and all vehicles whose maximum permissible mass does not exceed 3 thousand 500 kilograms and are designed to carry more than 6 passengers by the driver. These two guards bring plenty of administrative barriers and are non-living, and there are also many more costs. In the parliamentary group, we support the employment of criminal workers, but, as I said in the introduction, the problem must be solved at its very source, thus burdening the cost of work and thereby increasing the competitiveness of our economy. Therefore, in the New Slovenia Group we support the conclusion that this law is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u13	The text is given by the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, Mr Ivan Prelog.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u14	All in attendance, all in attendance! Penetrating forms of work based on civil law contracts are cheaper for employers because they are less or less burdened by social security contributions. These workers have significantly less legal security than workers within standard forms of employment. For workers working in flexible forms of work, there is a higher risk of unemployment because they are not making progress. Employers do not invest in their education, health or safety at work. Companies where workers have stable forms of employment are much more efficient in the medium term, have higher added value to the employee and are more productive. And the latter in the narrower segment of workers employed in road transport is referred to by the bill-maker. The proposer points out that the industry is pre-arranged and that it is impossible to control carriers and their work. They therefore want to achieve by amending legislation that drivers should have a contract of employment, proof of paid salaries for the last three months and evidence of contributions made for the last three months. They also propose the introduction of tachographs in vehicles for six passengers, allowing for the recording of working hours and mandatory rest. If the installation of tachographs in vehicles for the transport of six passengers were prescribed, this would only apply to vehicles registered in the Republic of Slovenia. This would put our business operators in an unequal economic situation. The mandatory installation of tachographs in these vehicles would represent additional financial costs and additional administrations for the company, such as keeping working time records, storing tachograph data and so on. In the event of a proposed solution to the compulsory conclusion of a contract of employment for the purpose of carrying out transport, it was pointed out at the meeting of the home labour body that the legal basis for carrying out the work was laid down in the labour law but not in this law. In this case, too, the activity of road hauliers would be uneven compared to other economic operators and would constitute an additional administrative barrier for carriers. This would also apply only to carriers established in the Republic of Slovenia, which would put our carriers in an unequal position with foreign carriers. Therefore, in the SMC Group, we do not support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u15	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u16	Dear comrades! The draft law on amendments to the Road Transport Act was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members of the United Left. The bill provides that a tachograph should also be installed for two-track vehicles with a vehicle height above the first axle of 1.3 metres or more and for vehicles with a maximum mass not exceeding 3000 500 kilograms and designed and constructed to carry more than six passengers next to the driver. In addition, the proposal of the law also provides that, as a condition for the start-up of transport, transport may be carried out only if the driver of the vehicle has a fixed-term or indefinite contract of employment with the carrier. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers that the obligation to install tachographs in the vehicles mentioned above is more appropriate to regulate this uniformly at EU level in the context of the proposed amendments to Regulation (EC) No 561/2006 laying down rules on driving times, rest periods and rest periods for vehicles and drivers. It should be pointed out that no other country in the EU has such matters in place. The legislative and legal service recalls different conditions for domestic carriers compared to foreign carriers in Slovenia and also in Europe, which means lower competitiveness. Lower competitiveness also means fewer jobs. On the other hand, this means additional costs and additional administrative burden. Business conditions must be uniform for businesses and the functioning of economic services or individuals. However, employment and labour relations are regulated by the Labour Relations Act, which does not fall under the Road Transport Act. This is a work relationship between the employer and the employee. Finally, it should be noted that there are legal grounds for improving the situation in this area and that effective monitoring is particularly important to improve. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we do not support the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Road Transport Act, but we support efforts to prevent inappropriate forms of overwork in the field of transport. We stress, however, that, in the absence of effective supervision, additional legal obligations for Slovenian carriers will not contribute to the reduction of the offence, but will certainly further burden the domestic carrier and thus reduce its competitiveness compared to foreign carriers. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we support the decision of the parent committee that the law is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u17	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting, today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 10th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. At the end of the day, that's a second defensively proposed law on marriage in the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. To further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u18	Honourable President, honourable Members, Members of Parliament, Your Honor! We have before us a second reading of the Law on apprenticeship, which we have already discussed at the meeting of the National Assembly in February, and we have already discussed on the committee responsible. At the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, we coordinated the bill with all the social partners. There have also been many very conflicting views, but I believe that we have reached consensus in the process of coordination, in our view, which can ensure the feasibility of the law and, above all, the achievement of its objectives. The key objective of this law is to bring vocational education to young people together with the needs of employers and to connect the education system even more closely both with turnover and with the economy. In particular, it is the intention of young people to socialise professionally as soon as possible. Practicing is an important project for all of us. It is also important within the European Union, which also highlights and addresses it. Why? Because we are also looking for new opportunities and opportunities in the light of youth employment, as well as education and training in a way that brings the labour market closer and, above all, the needs of employers. It is also very important that the apprentice who will work with the employer be provided with labour protection, that young people are protected, that they have adequate rights and that the remuneration for this work will not affect family benefits and social transfers of the family. Let me stress, as we have discussed on the committee responsible, that the student who will be training at the apprenticeship is not employed, but are in the student and student status. This is very important so that we can also understand the rights and, on the other hand, the responsibilities arising both for the employer and, of course, for schools. According to the law, the apprentice will have the status of a student or student who has a minimum of 50% of the education programme in practice at the place of study. Why is that important? This substantially builds up, in fact, doubles the form of so-called individual learning contracts or other forms of training already within employers or practical instruction. This means that we are actually getting as close as possible to the extent of practical knowledge, vision and skills acquisition in a way that is close to the employer and the labour market. It is very important that the triangular school – student – will work well and in sync. Unless trust and responsibility are built up in this triangle, it will be difficult to encourage young ones and parents to join their young children in this system. But that is also what today's debate is about, so let's encourage each other to understand not only the feasibility and importance of this system, but also, above all, the contribution to the development of young people, new potentials and at the same time skills that are being strengthened for the needs of jobs. The school-employee triangle is therefore key and also incorporated into the proposed law. It is also very important that it also has a responsible working relationship in areas where it is important, and of course that, in the case of minors and especially under the protection of minors, in terms of labour responsibilities, we also place those adults, especially those who are unemployed, which is also an analogy with the countries to which we have compared ourselves, in a way that they can also achieve adequate retraining through this system. I would also particularly like to thank both departments, both the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of the Economy, for finding a common language, how to resolve all these areas and, above all, how to implement them in the apprenticeship. How's it going? In order to live well, we have prepared a pilot project and we expect up to 200 apprentices a year, if this only works in an encouraging and, of course, also in the context of our communication, including from the National Assembly, that this is something that is an opportunity for young people and for all those who want to strengthen skills, especially for employers. The numerous amendments that have been tabled, which we have also considered on the committee responsible, show in fact that the views so far in the preparation of this law and in particular the various interests have been visible, given, but still coordinated with all the social partners. This is exactly what I hope and believe that, in fact, our proposal has brought us closer not only to the means of feasibility, but also to the quality and responsible functioning of apprenticeship as a system that becomes permanent, which becomes stable and for the benefit of all stakeholders in it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u19	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Dr Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u20	Thank you very much. All right, everybody, welcome! At its 26th regular meeting on 11 April this year, the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth discussed the draft law on apprenticeship submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. On the basis of Rule 122 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a general discussion was also held. The National Assembly held that debate at its 27th regular session. in February this year and adopted the conclusion that the draft law on apprenticeship is appropriate for further consideration. In the light of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system, the proposed law has been examined by the Legislative and Legal Service from a legislative point of view. In its introduction, the representative drew attention in particular to the lack of clarity, inadequacy, misrepresentations and explanations in the draft law which did not comply with the business provisions. It further referred to the comments it made in the opinion at the time of its consideration of the individual articles. The draft law was also supported by the Council of State and their representative, and as an important part of the creation of the bill, he highlighted the interdepartmental cooperation of the competent regional ministries of education, economy and work. During the course of business, the amendments were tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups and by the New Slovenia and the United Left. Following the opening presentations of the bill by the Minister for Education, Science and Sport and the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, a discussion followed, in particular, on the rights, duties and status of apprentices, apprenticeship as part of the educational process, the role of the Chambers in the training of apprentices and other content related to the proposal for a law. The bill was also supported by some institutions that have already participated in its preparation, namely the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia, the Chamber of Agriculture and Economy of Slovenia and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. In the discussion below, some felt that the proposal for a law did not follow the criteria of clarity, certainty, understanding and clarity and that it was not coherently integrated into the legal order. Others felt that the law was good, that young people should be trained, that they could enter the work process, while at the same time employers should be encouraged to invest more in the workforce and that more needs to be done to popularise and upgrade jobs where there is a shortage of staff. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted amendments to the coalition's parliamentary groups. On the basis of Article 131(8) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee has drawn up and adopted three of its amendments to Articles 2, 3 and 22 of the draft law. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u21	Since the assembly held a general debate on the draft law at its 27th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the Groupes. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and amendments tabled, to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 20. 4. 2017. Since the amendment of the United Left Group to Article 1 is substantively linked to the amendments of the same proposer to Articles 2, 5, 36 and 37, we will discuss them together. I therefore put to the debate paragraphs 1, 2, 5, 36 and 37 and the amendments of the Group of Ambassadors the United Left to this article and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors to Articles 5 and 37. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u22	President, thank you for your word. Dear Minister with a team, colleagues, colleagues, all hail! I hope that I have just remembered, President, 1st, 5th, 12th, 37th, in short, we can talk about almost all the amendments in this Article 1. It is true, however, that, as the President has determined, the amendments are somehow being followed on the basis of the record of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which is, I will hope to say on the basis of this opinion, to break the draft law. In the parliamentary group, we regret that there has been such a situation where coalitions as a rollers do not take account of anyone, which is also evident from the material or report of the committee's own meeting, which we SDS Members are meeting because, on such an important issue, the coalition does not want to take on an additional month of time to perhaps make a public presentation of opinions or this month to be aligned with all the stakeholders that you would like to coordinate with in this government in order to get a really good system law, which would have an important component to be feasible in practice. And what is the situation after the second reading, that is, after the amended bill? Three-quarters of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, in particular those dealing with the content of the law itself, was overrun by the coalition. We knew roughly where the story would go in the Messengers ’ group, and that is why we did not prepare any amendments. And why not? For two days I have tried and written about half of the amendments that we would have tried to bring into this law, and I must say that we have also been helped here by the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which opened up and supported all the doubts we had in the SDS Group on certain issues in this law. First of all, the system order. She's not here. In the previous bill, the coalition parliamentary groups in particular said: “No, this law is not systemic, we will regulate it systematically.” The next item is proof that you sometimes work one, sometimes another. We have the Vocational and Vocational Education Act, and within that, I think chapter five or six is talking about apprenticeship. You have taken this chapter out of the system law and put it in some of your laws, which you now claim to be a system law or a new law, and will only increase the number of 20,000 regulations, instead of regulating matters where they belong. So much for this systemicity. And this systemicity has been pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service: “In the explanation does not explain the content of the individual articles of the bill and the consequences, and therefore we find that the material provided does not meet this criterion, there is no explanation, the lack of clarity contributes to the gap between the proposed regulation and the indications...” and so on, that I will not be in the introduction too long. I will tell you again, twice in this mandate we have proposed a law in the SDS Group, so no one can tell us that there is no systematic solution to this; unfortunately, the very acute problem of all those young people who want to learn professionally and professionally in Slovenia, which means that if they get well educated here, they will not contact the employer, the day they finish their secondary education system, they will think about whether their next destination is Austria, Germany, Switzerland or elsewhere, where my young colleagues are going in the last weeks and months, New Zealand, Australia. Dubai is a very interesting destination, but not touristic, unfortunately, but employable, there need professional and professional workers in the field of tourism, crafts, construction, electrical engineering, engineering and so on. But with this law, we probably will not keep any of these young ones at home because we have made an even greater mess with this law. The minister said: “The apprentice is a student.” Opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service: "The main thing is that it is not sufficiently defined and from this point of view the very concept of apprenticeship is questionable as defined in the bill. In Article 1, the draft law defines it as a form of education, but it should be reconsidered or written out of a status definition solution. We believe that the placement of apprenticeships in education in further provisions is blurred and that the status of apprentices is not uniformly defined or that the separation between them is not clear.” And here is what we have already warned about in the first reading of the bill – a proposal for a law, a major solution, point 2.3/1: “The apprenticeship is part of the system of vocational and professional education.” And here the proposaler writes: “Educational programmes can be carried out in the school form on the basis of the Vocational and Vocational Education Act or in the apprenticeship form, on the basis of the Law on apprenticeship.” And then you kick in the Labour Relations Act and the Adult Education Act, in short, kick everything. And so we decided not to propose amendments in the SDS Group because we know what would be the result of this work – ignorance, as the result has been, of ignoring everyone else. We find the amendment proposed by the United Left Group to Article 1, which is to delete the text “and in the programmes for further vocational and professional education”. So, what is going on in this Article, I quote: "This law governs apprenticeship as a form of education in secondary vocational education..." and instead of making a dot here, which is also proposed by the Law-Legal Service not later, you continue: "...and in the programmes of further vocational and professional education." And the second paragraph says: “All questions relating to apprenticeship, which are not regulated by this law, are subject to the provisions of the law governing vocational and vocational education.” And not just the system law, then you have the Adult Education Act and the Labour Relations Act in you. In short, in the Law on apprenticeship, which is supposed to be primarily or 100 percent for apprentices, young people, if you want to, will you do what? In the pilot projects, it is likely that 200 people will be hired to work as apprentices in McDonald's if you want what we've heard in one of the past stories. And that eight schools – perhaps it would be interesting to know by what key – with four programmes voluntarily involved in the pilot project, by 2020 and 2021 this pear product will no longer be in practice, as they will no longer be a workshop for. And those who remember in 2005, 2006 when the apprenticeship system was abolished, we know that it was not the minister of that time, but the chambers decided, and said, “No, we are not going.” And then it was the conclusion of all sectoral ministries, education, work, families, the economy, trade chambers, all the other chambers, let's wait and study a new process. But then governments were rapidly changing and it was not in anyone's interest that this system was being resolved or that apprenticeship was being addressed in more field laws rather than in the Vocational and Vocational Education Act. In short, we support this intention of the United Left, that if you want a special law on apprenticeship, this law on apprenticeship should be for young people. And just like that, when you're in the power of the left government, you kick everything together, always, the unemployed, the elderly, the young, what's essentially under your hand, you kick everything into some non-systemic law. In short, I hope, given what the minister said, there was a discussion, today there will be a discussion that it will not happen the same as it did at the committee's own meeting. Those editorial amendments by coalition parliamentary groups were adopted, United Left, New Slovenia was driven. I say, however, I am little sorry that I have spent two days working on how to regulate certain amendments in certain articles where the law is so unsystemically made that it is impossible to solve it. And now, if you'll excuse me, President, because you said that all these amendments were connected, so I could get to Article 5. You said it was also part of the job. Article 5 speaks of the apprentice. And here you have a dictatorship that needs to be erased or three quarters erased. Article 1 is good: “The apprentice is a student who is educated in the educational programme.” Great. “The apprentice is also a person who is highly educated, unemployed or employed in order to obtain more secondary vocational education due to retraining.” If we really wanted to have a law on apprenticeship, such a paragraph would not even come into the draft text of the law. But obviously, this instinct that you are being preferred within the apprenticeship system is going to make this law much worse. And the third paragraph of this Article, which speaks of the apprentice, also states: "The apprentice referred to in the first paragraph of this Article has the right and obligations under this law and law governing vocational and professional education. The apprentice referred to in the preceding paragraph then to the law.” And then we come up with an amendment that wants to bring back the Labour Relations Act and the Labour Market Regulation Act in order to make matters even more opaque, non-systemic, non-transparent, in short, all that where you do not miss a word is happening in this law. Instead of systemic, non-systemic. Instead of transparent, impenetrable. Instead of transparent, untransparent. These are the provisions of this law. And then this marriage will have consequences — what? Implementation in practice. Pilot project in the school year or year of the unemployed and the elderly for 2017, 2018, but we all know what awaits us next year, if not earlier. Elections! And do you know where 2020 is, 2021? We will probably say somewhere, not just the novelties of this law, but the withdrawal of this law from the number 20,000 plus the laws and regulations we have in the country and the system law. Then you said, President, Article 12, if I am not mistaken, and I will go to Article 38 first, which also speaks of the apprentice and Article 18, the duties of the apprentice, eight indents, what must be done and then this key article 28, which we are also talking about: "The apprentice may at any time during the duration of the apprenticeship contract without explanation cancel the apprenticeship contract." Now, you tell me, in this situation that we have in Slovenia, when I was at a meeting yesterday, how the craftsmen said they could get nothing but what is called a student for regular employment. How some serious employer will take the apprentice with a serious mentor if the apprentice can show him a finger the next day and say, "Employer, goodbye." The apprentice may, at any time during the duration of the apprenticeship contract without explanation, terminate the apprenticeship contract. On the other hand, the employer, of course, has, he can cancel the apprenticeship contract if he na na na na na na na na na, and what everything is waiting for him. Are you sure anyone will even want to take the apprentice? Even these eight schools with these four programs are unlikely to decide. How could you so benevolently overlook that I would not say anything else, such an important provision? One of the parties to the procedure can not only be from today to tomorrow, but in the next five minutes when it is called mentor, respected student, apprentice, see, tomorrow we will learn, but says apprentice, yes, forgive mentor, and I do not go, article 28 of the Law on apprenticeship, good luck and goodbye! So, what do we call it? It's nobody's fault. And so on. And then I'm going back, given that they're all connected to the 12th article, which is also in this set of what we can say, the chambers. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u23	But they are not all connected, but fine, because I will consider this to be part of the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Chambers. What did the Legal and Legal Service say? “In view of the division between education and the work area, we note the great role that, in our view, this proposal has been played by the House Act, which is not equivalent to the role of schools and the Ministry of Labour, as we would expect in view of the basic definition that it is an apprenticeship for the form of education.” Keyly, the chambers won't make decisions, employers won't make decisions. And that crucial moment that we must follow in the introduction of apprenticeships will say the same as the apprentice in Article 28: “Thank you for your attention, distinguished Ministry of Education! Thank you for your attention, Ministry of the Economy! Thank you for your attention, Ministry of Labour! We're not going to do this." And then everyone else falls off, from apprentices to schools, to records that schools have to keep under this law, which are just another new administrative burden, but a little more on this. The chambers of this work will not be able to do it if they want it. What do they have to do? Sixteen things. Let us not say that the 16th point of this article is: “... they carry out other tasks laid down by this law.” In addition to the 15 things mentioned above, they carry out other tasks laid down by this law. One more time. If apprenticeship is to be established, even though I know that schools want to have a certain impact, which they also have under this law, they should have a serious approach to this law by the ministries, which, if we look at the whole bill, almost withdraw from this system and join in. And once again, the minister said, apprentice – student. Then why is it a union role and a collective bargaining debate if the apprentice is a student? And this, once again, is what the Legal and Legal Service said before – let's decide whether apprenticeship is part of the educational system or part of the legal system. And you wanted to throw it together, and you did a disaster. I'm sure that employers would rather decide if they said, look, apprenticeship is part of the labour law, the chamber is this, this, this, this, school this, this, this, students this, and everyone would know this. Now the apprenticeship will still be part of the educational system, but the chambers will be fully involved in this system, and the schools will only have the records there, but only collect them, what these poor chambers have to bring every day, every month with the various matters that are in this law. In short, I'm probably going to call back, but really, Madam Secretary, I believe that you had a good intention of arranging this rather complicated system. I think we all agree that it's not light matter, but I will say directly, I think you've met too many times with the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, and you've listened too often to the obvious opinion of some union. And to refer to articles 36 and 37, which I believe are also amendments, paragraphs 37, yes. Experimental training. I don't think that's necessary, because we're talking about overqualifications and unemployed people here. And you introduce another moment instead of being as simple as possible. “In the case referred to in the preceding paragraph, i.e. due to overqualification, an unemployed person may also be included and is also a party to the contract...” Who? “... Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Employment.« The Chamber of Commerce is likely to cross, the unemployed cross twice more, and the students even hope that this will be abolished once, because they all know that as soon as they have completed their professional and professional training course, they are awaiting employment by the Office of the Republic of Slovenia. »The apprenticeship contract may be concluded after the preliminary conclusion of the employment plan and the establishment of a plan for the implementation of apprenticeships.« And the unemployed who are involved in this law will run away from the system of apprenticeships. In short, under this law, respectable, truly believe, good intentions, but with the exception of this pilot project – I will publicly justify myself if there is a better situation – no one will have anything, except the Minister of Labour, who will be able to say, 200 less unemployed because, as I quote, which is also one of the proposals of this article, “no matter what the provisions of the law governing the labour market...” In short, the law that kicks in labor law. “... are the persons referred to in the first paragraph of this Article...” So unemployed people. “... from the date of the implementation of the educational programme in accordance with the contract concluded, the records of unemployed persons shall cease to be kept and shall not be considered as a unemployed person during the period of apprenticeship.” I can see just what article 1 says. September or October 1st for 200 less unemployed in this country. Yes, of course, because you will include the unemployed in the apprenticeship system, and that will be that. It's the intention of this marriage. Young people have been lost by translation or by entering certain items in this law. So, Madam Minister, once again, I believe in a good purpose, but obviously catastrophic implementation of this law, so that there will be no mistake, I have hoped that the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service will reject my own, and if you want, our client's suspicions about the draft of this law, that there are a lot of inconclusive things that we have warned about in the first reading, who can be an apprentice, a chamber, trade unions, records and so on, but the legal and legal service has said them in a brutal way, not by this farm logic, but by the legislative formula. And if the legislative formula is catastrophic, what follows in Slovenia where we make a good law disastrous in practice? A disastrous marriage, even more disastrous consequences in practice. Unfortunately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u25	The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, chairman. It's nice that the speaker has given me such a good point of view, and he's explained this a lot, except, of course, in that union work, somehow, I'm not going to say that I have to agree, but I'm sorry. Some good cause must have gotten lost somewhere along the way. Then I'll start with the story. I always come on a train, sometimes I drive home with someone from the coalition, but I try to marinate them a little bit. Yesterday, I take a train and in Celje, a 19-year-old man with his teacher, a mentor, goes to some award in Ljubljana. But I do my own work, I have great ears, I stretch out my ears, and he interprets, yes, what plans he has. Now I'm going to move with a girl to Sežana, study for a stone picker, then I'm going to go to Maribor for forestry, and then I'm going to be interested in smithing, and I'm probably going to take advantage of some European options, and I'm going to go learn some more smithing in the Czech Republic. Here, it seems to me that this was one of the rare good news that I heard yesterday while I was in this byte – People watching – I heard. I'm sorry. Even if it were not for that very deplorable audit report by the Court of Auditors on youth policies, we, of course, have to deal with such matters. We all agree, like the second track, that this area needs to be regulated. It does not agree with us, regardless of the colour or composition of this Parliament, that the extreme time is after more than a quarter of a century of uncertainty, to start dealing with the economic essence of this society, to start dealing with industrial policies, to start dealing with industrialisation. The United Left is often evident, you would nationalize everything, colloquiate up and down, see, anyone who walks a little with open eyes in Slovenia, knows that most of us workers who try to survive, most of us craftsmen, most small, medium-sized entrepreneurs, and also, of course, realize that if you want to seriously go into business, you need some of the conditions that we set here, then over a small million sub-law enforcement authorities. And through these harsh conditions, every one of us who has ever tried to create jobs knows that of course you need a happy worker. And I don't think there's any need to detect hot water here. Another old Czech story, I've mentioned many times, Richard Sennett writes about it in a book that could be translated into Slovenian as a masterpiece. Rule 10,000 hours. It's an old Czech rule. Ten thousand hours you have to practice apprenticeship. Then we'll bless you for a master, and then another 20,000 hours to really become a master. That's actually some kind of fact. Now I will not metaphorically stick to what I have to say about this marriage, but my colleague, Lisec, has actually shown what this meant. The current cohesion, we say, is softer, is less infrastructure than the previous one, there are some pennies that would be somewhat wise to use, and of course every government must also correct a little statistics. And now we're running into a whole bunch of these problems here. We're still aware that you're probably going to run us over with these amendments, go home, no, we're not giving up as SDS. Of course, the first dilemma in mixing is too many things together. You know, if you're making a white-screened cake, if you're making a splint or a premurk movement, you know what the ingredients are, and you have to stick to it. But here this proposal came into the house and there is such a "I am the son of a cook", essentially an indigestible one-celler, if I hope a little under the belt, I can say, who is in fact our domestic dog, who lives in another country, would not eat. That's kind of the problem here. I agree with this, that the unemployed get involved in some sort of apprenticeship, that whoever is already in power, will boast a little bit about some statistics, and will not then wonder whether the unemployed person you humiliated even more – a little older remember Benny Hill, who beat the one on the head in the sketches – who you humiliated even more than an agency worker, who will not be able to survive. When I listened to the secretary who presented it, two things got in my head the most. The first issue was to have young people come to the labour market as soon as possible, and the second was what is called a pilot project, although the law-law service has also cut its ears here, why this is now a pilot – the law that burns goes into effect. In short, why? Because I feel that this law must also be read in the light of the law that we have previously dealt with — drivers, drivers. We must also look at the reduction of professional pensions. We will now turn 15-year-olds into the labour market and they should be working until 67. And each of us knows if we start moving this microphone like this now, it'll be here in a while. And man is, after all, material. And sometimes the chambers lie, they say, wages are faster than productivity. That's not true! Our burned-up people go to hospital, not because they cheat or because they go to plant potatoes as they might sometimes, but simply because they're actually burned. And it's something I've been calling "thinking about another and a different political economy" lately. You know what the relationship of the United Left to capitalism is, but also within this capitalism, which is supported by most so far in this society and country, other and different political economies are possible and it is possible to create a society and an economy without this violence that we now have over the ever-increasing work of employees. What do we really do with these amendments – Micah will talk a little more about it – do we work? In fact, we are trying to give apprenticeship to young people, while protecting these young people at the same time. However we are now turning to whether it is an education or a labour law, it is a mixed area, it is a fact. It also needs to be reconsidered, and in fact it needs to be regulated. He's kind of throwing up too much on his employer's back, if you want, the study room, without enough control. These young people are underprotective in this area. Since we have elements of labour law, of course, they need compulsory pension and disability insurance. Of course, it is necessary to touch seriously who will mentor these people, who will actually train mentors in some of those, if you want, the foundations of didactics and and andragogics. With this, we already have problems in college when young seniors don't want to go to a class of this kind, even though I could criticise a course like this because, unlike many other jobs, which I probably don't know very well. And here we actually have some sort of indigestible story. Unfortunately, this coalition is unfortunately this SMC – I often say that after the next election, no one would have more than 20 seats. Why? It's going to be harder to form a coalition, but it's going to be less of a giant. We have watched for three years, whenever we try to warn from all sides that a matter is really not thought out, that it really does not drink water, that you bulldoze further. But you know, the world existed before the SMC, and also before the United Left, before the Nsi, and then it will remain. But someone's going to have to deal with it somehow in the next term, in fact with something as fancy as it is, with which the vast majority are not satisfied. Yesterday, when I explained my voice, I wondered what kind of legislative body we were. So I have to continue here. After three years, I have the impression that there is a maximum range of us to adopt legislation with which no one is satisfied. And that is probably an optimist in Slovenia. All right, let's leave it aside that we love to hang out and engulf ourselves in general, but there are actually a number of substantive shortcomings that we are alerting to. And recently, I was on my way home on the train, and if I'm starting trains, I'm gonna finish the trains. And I've been talking to one key unionist of Slovenians, and I'm not going to name him now, who might even say that he's more on the right-hand side than he is, but no, he's a unionist than a unionist has to be. And, of course, we also talked about apprenticeship. And we actually agreed that this, as it was written, is actually a lower ranking than the agency's shortcut variants. And here we also have a problem that we need to seriously consider when we think about apprenticeship and when we think about labour legislation and the situation. We have today somehow too many possibilities as some lego cube, where that, first of all, minority will essentially abuse those who have to work, and that's most of us, somehow pull the position of the cubes that answer, and this violence of the system will continue, you know. But in fact then you come very quickly from this minority that it is the dominant way of operating some economic system, which is unfortunately true in a large majority and in many areas in Slovenia. But we can touch everyone under the age of 40 in the academic sphere, we can talk about tourism, we can talk about non-doctor staff in public health, freighters, apprentices. And this is some kind of reflection where we have to do a different and different homework. And then this is some vision that we have to think about, not say, let's squeeze a little bit, let's eat some old bread, and in 2050 we'll all laugh. I don't know where? In the grave, probably, a little over 50 years old when the stroke hits us. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u27	Before I put my word forward, please secondly, these devices are quite sensitive. And I was already warned that I should not warn you this way, so for the next time – leave this microphone alone because it could fail and then restore all these devices to a worse result than the results before. Mr Saša Tabakovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u28	Dear President, colleague and colleague, distinguished ministry! I wouldn't still be as apocalyptic as my predecessors. We simply consider or recognize apprenticeship as an important measure for the development, long-term development of the economy, which, of course, also means a greater degree of compliance with the education system and also in a certain proportion of the easier transition of young people to the labour market. Regardless of the fact that, at least as usual, the amendments tabled were more generally discussed, the debates were still a little wider, so that the discussions that we had already had on the Committee itself are somewhat repeated. Anyway, I don't have a problem with that. As far as the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service is concerned, we have followed the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service in the majority of the coalition, and some amendments have already been supported on the Committee. It is true, however, that we did not follow when, with the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, the concept of apprenticeship itself was also designed to change substantially. Here, however, it must be realized that the Law-Legal Service cannot be a political body in this sense, but it can only be an expert body of the National Assembly. Political decisions that touch content are simply a matter of policy and not of the opinion of the SPS. However, as regards the apprenticeship proposals that we have already discussed in the National Assembly, I agree that these were the proposals tabled by the SDS Group of Members, but that was simply because they did not prove themselves to be quality or effective in the past. I would add, however, when my colleague Lisec explained that in 2005 governments changed so quickly that the apprenticeship system could not be established, this is simply not true. In 2005, 2006, 2007, 2011, 2012, of course, your party was also in power, but in this sense nothing has changed in the apprenticeship system, so I think this, but you know, primal coining medals as a defender of some apprenticeship is still a little incorrect. However, I agree that the concerns concerning the law are always legitimate and always in place. I agree with the Government's opinion as well as with some of the debaters already on the parent committee, it is simply a law that is a minimum consensus, that is, a minimum sum, some minimum starting point for different stakeholders, both on the one hand employers and on the other hand also trade unions, including young people. In view of the debate we had on the committee, which touched on the apprenticeship system itself, where different opinions were followed, on the one hand of the Chamber of Commerce, which also boarded the Chamber of Commerce and the like. So it's a system of apprenticeships where the problem is basically that everyone who is touched by apprenticeship is very different in terms of how this system should be regulated. And it's true that it's a minimum consensus. However, what is important in this law is that, through a pilot project and in this law, the apprenticeship system seeks to protect both sides in this minimum consensus. On the one hand, employers with co-financing and on the other hand also an apprentice who will have paid insurance contributions, apprentice's prize, travel expenses, lunch, termination of the contract will be without notice, even the apprentice's prize will not affect the possible social transfers of the family from which it will come, and so on. So it's a consensus, a minimum consensus on what apprenticeship should look like, but through a pilot project some minorities or shortcomings will probably be corrected later in the future, and it is important that some security standards are provided within this minimum consensus, both on the one hand and on the other. I would also like to refer to the proposals of the United Left Amendments, which are somewhat over 20, but in fact, the very concept of apprenticeship is mostly problematic through three planes. In Article 4, the amendment proposes that the situation of education, theory and practice be translated into theory, which means that there should be more theory than practice compared to the proposal of the law. I have already told the committee that certain professions are such that they require simply more practice, but also, in principle, this is my personal opinion, in fact this glorification of theory, which is actually happening to us in all areas, is still a little problematic in my opinion, because I simply do not think that it is always academic behaviour that should be above practice. I think that it is a theory and practice to have an equal relationship, that it is simply a theory aimed at thinking, asking some new questions and practice, of course, as an example, that these questions, which the theory asks, are also tangiblely, blasphemically today, are a tangible answer. I am particularly saying this because the bill is designed to improve competences and early professional socialisation, as has already been said, to facilitate the transition to the labour market, which is what young people need today. Because if we look at comparatively European countries that have a very different system of apprenticeships, but the fact is that these countries show a lower rate of youth unemployment. The proposal for an amendment is also that after completion of the apprenticeship, the employer should simply employ the apprentice within 15 days for an indefinite period of time. Then I wonder, what if the apprentice doesn't really want to work with this employer? Here it is necessary to know that in the debate or during the preparation of the proposal, current ideas have been laid down that the apprentice should have been employed by the employer and that if the apprentice did not want to be employed, then, of course, he should have returned the apprentice's prize in a fair manner. I just can't agree with a system like this. And if we are already referring to the Constitution, as we have on the Committee at large, this is indeed Article 39 of the Constitution, which stipulates that freedom of work is guaranteed and, above all, that each job is a free choice. However, I agree, as probably everyone, that forced labour is prohibited in this respect. And in the light of this content, where the proposal by the amendment of the United Left proposes to delete the provisions for the inclusion in apprenticeship of unemployed persons. This would also limit the use of the apprenticeship system in terms of overriding, as proposed by the amendment. Now these concerns are of course in place, but one of the principles of a democratic vision of education is also the promotion of lifelong learning. I mean, if we prefer computer science education on the one hand, but on the other hand, it seems to us that some apprenticeship system might increase some excess. It is simply necessary to know that each individual has the right to carry out the profession he chooses and that he also has the right to be educated in this regard and to be able to improve his knowledge in relation to the profession he has chosen. In this context, we also find it difficult to support the amendment in the SMC, because it is simply the law itself that pursues certain objectives of the right to retrain. So in essence, as far as the proposals of the United Left are concerned, I can say that there are certain questions on the ground, but simply, if we look at them in substance, I find the views of the amendments somewhat contradictory. On the one hand, we are talking about apprenticeship being pointless because it will be co-financed by the state. As a result, after the end of co-financing, employers' interest in apprenticeship will virtually be no more. On the other hand, there is talk about how apprenticeship is actually going to be an exploitation system where employers are going to chain apprentices so that they can exploit them. So we will not support the amendments in this regard. However, we will certainly support the proposal for a novel, which is certainly one of the right directions. Data on the unemployment rate are encouraging, it is not just some forced espionage or the removal from the unemployment register, it is simply a fact that the Government has provided more European money for young people even under new employment opportunities and simply a system of apprenticeship works, if we can say so, of this mosaic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u29	Replica, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. Even if I wasn't a doctor, I should have stopped by about a little easy explanation of what the theory is, Mr Tabakovic. After all, players also need theories and different schools and ways of taking on roles. At some point I started teaching the Sociology of Architecture and Urbanism and I had great problems at the FDV because I had to fight because I said: “Children, I will not point to you on PowerPoint, but we will do everything on the ground.” The theory can also be interpreted and applied in the field, but at the same time it can touch stone and something else, I also work with students of architecture. I would say, some people with a high school degree, I think we should have a slightly more serious attitude to theory. Just do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u31	Mrs. Ludmila Novak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u32	Dear Mr President, distinguished Madam Minister, colleague and colleague, a nice greeting! This marriage was difficult to expect, and especially the economy was hard to expect. I hear this from economists again and again, that there is an increasing lack of properly trained professional staff. Therefore, New Slovenia also supported this law in its first reading, of course, expecting that we will then complete it together, improve it, remedy the shortcomings. New Slovenia has also tabled a series of amendments that made sense, but unfortunately none of our amendments have been adopted. Therefore, I can honestly say that we cannot support this law in such a form, even though we wanted it, even though it is necessary, but unfortunately it has too many shortcomings. This law will succeed only when it can be fully realized or if, on the one hand, so will the interest of the students and, on the other hand, of employers or those who want to train young people in this way. Of course, the interest is, just probably someone who will see only obstacles in this, problems that will not have a certain benefit from this, but will not go away. And we won't be able to force anyone to accept mentoring for someone if he sees the problems and obstacles and maybe the costs. That's why interest has to be mutual. Above all, in all this debate we have had on the committee, I have been disturbed by something that we have actually forgotten what the purpose of this law is. What is the goal? Finally, we have a well - trained young man or a young woman who will be professionally qualified, who will have some skills and who will also be responsible and eventually employable. I am sure that the one who will train him to see that this young man or young woman is good at his work will yet do his best to keep him. It's not always easy to train someone again for a job. Some, however, discussed how he would be exploited, how poor he would be, how I did not know what prizes he would have to pay and so on. Of course, it's right for him to win the prize, but he also has to earn the prize. So I was deeply disturbed by the fact that someone could be absent, had a hospital, and the employer was paying for it. It's not the same if you're busy or if you have student status. And employers, or chambers, also object. There is too much opacity or confusion of status in the marriage. If we're talking about apprenticeship, let's call it apprenticeship. We don't have to put the unemployment status here in this marriage. These are usually adults who should be educated under different conditions. This is about the apprenticeship system, so it's about educating students. And because of this, it is always different that labour laws are supposed to be respected, and this law is so forward that these statuses are too mixed up. [[…]] Then we have a apprenticeship instead of a teaching post. That's what we've amended. Unfortunately, our amendments have not been accepted and therefore we consider it sad or pointless that such minorities, which are important, have not been accepted. And they make sense. Of course, it is right and good to protect a student in order to protect a minor, but there are many obstacles to this law. In this sense, as we sometimes joke that it is best to be a winter farmer, and a summer teacher, how someone will take an apprentice, but if when he has the most work, he must not work, he must send him home at 22. Uri. For example, in a restaurant, Saturdays and Sundays are the most work, and he can't even work. Or ovens that work more at night. When are they gonna teach him? Days when they don't work and stuff. Therefore, this protection must not be hampered by rules or the work process. Such restrictions must be meaningful and feasible. There's one more thing. There can be no apprentice without an explanation. He doesn't need to be given an explanation, a written explanation, why he's breaking the contract. The employer has to, but he doesn't have to. Then we raise someone who isn't. However, we know that in the years that this training takes place, we have children, we have minors, that it is not so easy to train working habits, that many will have trouble getting up in the morning at all, and when it is not possible to do so, it may also have temptation, and it is not, but it cancels the contract. It's not serious here, we're not raising him to be responsible, to be responsible. And then we ask ourselves again why our young people are spoiled, but they are not young to blame – we are talking about how it is necessary to reintroduce military service in order to get them into order in order to become accustomed to discipline – such things begin with the use of discipline, order and responsibility. Here. With this law, we simply allow the possibility of getting a headache in the morning and getting paid for it, of course, every person is also sick, but since I was teaching in high school I know, and we were studying ourselves, and we know what temptations come to us, that we have a headache or something else. And if that's what you get paid for, yes, why don't you take advantage of that opportunity. Let's not forget the target! The goal is to get as many well-trained staff as possible, young people who will be employed. I am sure that employers are having a hard time waiting for this cadre, and that they will also make an effort to be those who are qualified to work. However, I find it pointless that some of the demands of trade unions will help to make this law more difficult to implement or that fewer people will be willing to take the apprentices if the demands are unreasonable. Like the one who has to hire him. We claim that someone with his property, such as a company, is simply prescribed what he has to do and who he has to hire. I think there's got to be some freedom here so you can decide for yourself who you're gonna hire and who you're not gonna hire. But if someone turns out to be good, they'll want to hire him. And this is how we get better workers, better businesses and a better economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u33	Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Madam Minister with co-worker, dear colleague and colleague! When I look at who the law on apprenticeship is actually written for, or who the shareholders of this law are, surely in the first place, the apprentices, then the employers, then the schoolchildren – that is a respectful expression – and of course the unions. I can say, without any thanks here, that on the basis of the field visits made by Nova Slovenije in the last good five years – these field visits were over 40 and we visited over 200 economic operators, micro, small, medium-sized enterprises – I can say, as we say, that we know what the Slovenian economy needs and what policy should do, especially the legislative branch of government, in order for people to become more employed, no less, because every good entrepreneur has a basic passion for the growth of the company. I'm not going to be doing the analysis here right now, it's not my intention to figure out who won those stakeholders who were involved in the drafting of this law. Anyone who reads it can see who the winner is. And I don't think it's right, it's wrong that not all the winners, all the ones I've counted before. The Chamber of Commerce and Industry said that the beginning was good, we coordinated, and the final text of the bill was not harmonised with us. And to be fair, New Slovenia, like all of you, received a letter from the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, and we have summarized their amendments, unfortunately the coalition on the committee has smoothed them all. Ladies and gentlemen, it was 2 July 2013, four years of which, minus 72 days, I was president of the Committee on European Union Affairs and I have been closely monitoring the events related to this day. This day is in a way, I can say, the birth date of the European Alliance for apprenticeships. At that time, the European Commissioner for Education, Culture, Multilingualism and Youth, Androulla Vassiliou, and the Commissioner for Employment, Social Affairs and Inclusion, László Andor in Leipzig, Germany, announced the official launch of the European Alliance for apprenticeships at the WorldSkills 2013. This should help to combat youth unemployment by improving the quality and offer of apprenticeships in the European Union through a broad partnership of key stakeholders in the field of employment and education. This coalition will seek to change its attitude towards apprenticeship while at the same time identifying, in particular, the most successful apprenticeship programmes in the European Union and developing appropriate solutions for individual Member States. Their first joint statement was supported by the European Commission, the Presidency of the Council of Ministers of the European Union and trade unions and employers' organisations at European level. The Training Coalition is expected to promote measures that will receive support from the European Social Fund, youth employment initiatives and the new European Union programme for education, training and youth Erasmus Plus. apprenticeships play a key role in the fight against youth unemployment, as they provide young people with the skills and experience that employers seek. Yeah, I'm sorry it's been four years and 72 days. But okay, better now, better late than never. I also believe that the Minister had good intentions and that it is certainly difficult for all the stakeholders I have listed to reach compromises, to make decisions, to make solutions that are appropriate for all. But we have learned something from Slovenian apprenticeship and the Slovenian proverb says Oslo goes on ice once. Mr Lisec said that the Chambers decided in 2005 and 2006 to simply shut down the apprenticeship system. Why? He probably wasn't any use. Probably. I also see something a little different from the Minister's, I would say an antigaberian approach to modernising the school system. Of course, we all want to be effective, faster and so on. As far as I know, this is where our colleagues from Germany were available to help us establish our apprenticeship system. And if I've avoided before to tell you who the winner really is now in this solution, I won't tell you who the winner is, I'll avoid that again, but I'm sure the losers are employers. And if you're the employer, the employer, will you take the apprentice? You won't take it. Look, for reasons, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry wrote one pile, one set of amendments. And now I am going specifically to Article 5, because Dr Brglez, President, opened it, and to the amendment to Article 5. Of course, in Article 5, the definition of apprentice is different than I have known her so far. When I said, I heard the apprentice, I understood, yeah, it's a young man, a young woman, a student, a student, somewhere between 15 and 19. Now, of course, the apprentice is also an adult, aged 50, perhaps even a pensioner. And look, it's perfectly logical that our amendment should then be accepted. Why? Because adults, irrespective of their employment status or unemployment status, have a significantly different legal status and their participation in the learning process must have the elements of the employment relationship covered by other sectoral legislation — the Labour Relations Act. This is what we now introduce through our amendment to Article 5 and the Labour Market Regulation Act. This adult can't just be governed by this law as an apprentice. Look, there are other legal services and not just our political decision. I think if we've already defined the apprentice like this, then it's imperative that the matter is complicated, as my colleague Lisec said. But then it's got to be in there. The third paragraph of Article 5 must also be amended in this respect. And look, we should have joined forces and acted long ago to ensure that our young people acquire the skills they need to succeed in their personal and professional lives. In view of the unacceptable, still unacceptable level of youth unemployment, it is essential that those responsible for education and employment work together to facilitate the transition of young Europeans, including Slovenes and Slovenians, from school to professional life. And now I'm going to tell you what's going on in the region that I'm coming from – Pomurje. Austrian vocational schools have organized buses where they collect our students, not only by the border, they reach my village, I am 15 kilometers from the Slovenian-Hungarian border, they collect students and drive them to Austria for education and, of course, they also provide jobs. It's a dramatic situation. And not just because of the demographics, because of the low birth rate, too low birth rates, but because of that, the countryside is empty. Go to Jenersdorf, Austria, and you'll see what you'll get, like a young family, a construction plot. Apparently, there are some countries within the European Union, interestingly, our northern neighbours, who do little to understand what it means to have a good, trained, good, faithful citizen. And we Slovenians are good, we're working. Yes, of course there are exceptions, but let's leave them. And that's what's happening to us. I'm heartbroken here. I don't know what to do. What can I do? Should we write down a law that they should not be educated in Austria? No, on the contrary, we need to encourage the circulation of the brain, not the brain's escape, but, above all, the people's escape. We've got people running from us. And let's do it once, let's have someone take care of these, ask the young people why they signed up for school in neighbouring Austria, where the problem is. My colleague Lah will show the needs of employers on a practical case as we spoke earlier. And I tell you, colleagues, colleagues, if we had slightly better legislation in the labour market, I am not just talking about apprenticeship now, employers would be more employed, no less, no less. Now they say they don't hope to get a job. Why not? We all know the answer: Because a bad worker cannot be forgiven. And if they've got five bad guys, it knocks them down. They can be forgiven, but the court then decides that they have to take the employee back and settle their salaries for a few years, of course, this will bring the company down. We probably all know this situation. Now it is up to us to act. I propose a study of our amendment to Article 5 and propose and ask for support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u35	I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs. Vesna Vervega has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Now, in view of these discussions, so far, introductory, both on the one hand and on the other, I must admit that I am even more pleased that some minimum consensus has been reached in the adoption of this law in the Government. In fact, the apprenticeship system, which we deal with this time through this independent law, is introduced in Slovenia for the first time. We have already heard that apprenticeship has been included in the Vocational and Vocational Education Act for a period of ten years and has not come to life for various reasons. One of the main reasons why he did not come to life is that this apprenticeship law solves this is the status of an apprentice. What we have heard about, say earlier from Mr Lisco, is that in fact some of the chambers have decided at the time, i.e. economic, crafty, that they cannot finance it or that it is no longer appropriate. As far as these chambers of commerce are concerned, they have reached consensus at this moment. I will read the opinion or position of the Chamber of Commerce of 11. 1. where he says so, I quote: "In the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, we are pleased that in the final text of the bill we have been able to incorporate the essential changes and requirements that are essential for the correct start of the apprenticeship system. The costs of apprenticeship will be co-financed by the competent ministry and the apprentice will have the status of a student and not an employee.” This was, in the view of the Chamber of Commerce, a key starting point in support of or participation in this law. The fact is that both the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce and Industry have also stated that they agree, they have said that they have adopted some of the basic origins of this law. I think that some of the words I've heard before, let's say, "the chambers won't be able to do this work," they probably, if they agree, probably know what they're capable of or what they're not capable of. The basic objective of apprenticeship, I agree, is to facilitate the transition to employment, especially for those deficient professions for which we have always found that they are not actually on the market. I have mentioned this many times before that this apprenticeship system is one of the measures by which somehow the educational system tries to listen to the needs of the economy. I also have one example, for example, in our environment, where for years and years no craftsmanship workshop, a shoe shop can get the appropriate staff and, of course, hire foreigners. However, it is a shoe workshop where exports and well-known subscribers are concerned, it is actually working manually and it needs a well-educated staff, which our educational system has not actually offered so far. With regard to the amendments tabled or proposed by Nova Slovenije, some of the solutions have already been taken into account on the home work body in particular with regard to apprenticeships and apprenticeships. I would also like to respond to the warning that the rights of apprentices are not sufficiently taken into account in this law in order to create a surplus. I also read somewhere that apprenticeship deepens social inequality and acts highly segregation and sexual discrimination. I just can't accept this fact. International cases and experiences at this level are also very reversible. The Ministry's statement that it has not produced any analyses does not, in fact, hold any indicators to monitor the performance of the apprenticeship system. The Commission, referred to in Article 14 of the draft law, provides that it must monitor the exercise of apprenticeships and carry out various tasks and thus try to monitor and correct any possible errors or possible developments, proposals, solutions that will occur over time. There's one more thing I'd like to say. This measure, as we have heard before, is not intended for young people. Of course it's directed at young people in the first place. Of course, each individual has the right to additional education, to requalification, and ultimately to the Constitution. The measure is intended for young people, and this government has taken a number of measures for young people or for young people in the past two years, at least in the last two years. It has been noted that almost 50,000 young unemployed people under 29 years of age have been employed, a total of €300 million will be allocated to youth guarantees between 2016 and 2020. So this law, which introduces the apprenticeship system, is one of the measures that will affect the reduction of youth unemployment in the future. I believe we believe that through this law we will be able to introduce the apprenticeship system as we believed in 1996 that this apprenticeship system within the Vocational and Vocational Education Act will succeed. After 10 years of negotiations, coordination and effort, we believe that this time it will work. Of course, we will support this law, as we said on the Education Committee, the Home Committee, but we will not confirm the amendments tabled by the United Left.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u37	We're moving on. I give my word to Mr Tomaž Lisc because he has a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u38	Thank you, Vice President. The well-respected predecessor said the amendments were respected. Allow me, a magnetogram of the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, which I value very much, the entire Legislative and Legal Service, I quote, “We have received certain amendments, realistically, amendments to the coalition are mainly editorial in nature. Some of our editorial comments take into account some of them not." Editorial. The traces, I quote, “Notably, as mentioned above, do not take into account our more difficult comments.” And the distinguished predecessor, there were no comments in the amendment form by the United Left and New Slovenia. Not one. Therefore, the Vice-President, has two procedural proposals. First, warn Members who are deceiving to do so. And the second suggestion, given that I have been, I think, a 6 or 7-year-old expert in the National Assembly, I ask you to protect integrity, as it is now said, of professional services, that Members do not exploit them because, as Members say, they say, they say, "Comprehensive amendments." Legal and legal services, however, allow me to quote: “The main thing is that the concept of apprenticeship, as defined in the bill, is not sufficiently defined and is questionable from this point of view.” However, I can go back again, editorially, certain corrections have been taken into account, but not certain. In short, two procedural proposals, and I hope that you will also take them into account when you continue to manage the meeting successfully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u39	For you, too, for two procedural proposals. At least I think that this debate allows for different interpretations and different opinions, otherwise I would suggest that you be involved in the debate, although you have rightly pointed out the procedural one, but I believe that everyone, including Mrs Vervega, has performed an corrective act. It is, however, one that must be dynamic enough to then erase the truth that is actually in favour of the debate in the National Assembly. I would both listen to Mrs Verveg's correctness and also to your warning, which should be taken into account in the future. We proceed with Mr. Tinker Bell. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Chairman. I have already discussed on the committee itself that I do not fully understand how this apprenticeship system is supposed to work this year. At the time, I described what this system was like, for example, for a locksmith, sometimes the apprentice had been in school for half a school year and half a company for half a year. That even when he was in school, he was in school workshops, that he also made a final product at school workshops, and now it is no longer. If the government has chosen 8 school centres across Slovenia, where these apprenticeships will be established, tried back as a pilot project to implement it, I wonder if all the conditions are now, whether now for half a year in school will only be taught Slovenian, mathematics, what is needed, history and perhaps even some self-government, as it used to be, and then left to a certain company. If there will be one class of these students, the apprentices, what experience will each of them bring from his own environment, where he will be educated for six months? How's this going to go together, how'd you put it? The system has changed significantly, the way classical companies work, as they used to be, is gone, not all of them will be with one employer. We are interested in how this is organized or also in this curriculum. It is heard that certain professions are distributed throughout the country. The needs are also different in certain parts, especially in neighbouring Italy, there are regions, there is a woodworking industry in a particular region, there is a rubber industry in another one, and there is one area of education, which is what the economy needs. I'm sure in Dolenjska, we don't need some professions for which we don't have any industry. I have a case from yesterday's newspaper Finance, so the famous Akrapovich needs 30 to 40 welders every year, that's no longer the question of what kind of education. It also says that in Slovenia we have 70,000 unemployed people who are not looking for jobs because work is too stimulated because it is better to be home. It's been analyzed. Better to do nothing than work for a minimum wage. And he states here in the article that they will be forced to get workers from other countries, other cultures, other customs, to adjust them in some way and to study them. He also writes beautifully that the welder he needs can't be everyone. When they get a man, they educate him for a few months if it's not said that everyone will be able to do it because there's a specificity that no one has. It also speaks of being more of an unemployed economist, unemployable than a welder or a locksmith or a stoner. As long as it's like that [[…]] But as for stimulation, a colleague told us how the Austrians collect from us, drive to their schools by bus. Rezvoz Novo Mesto is already busing workers in Zasavje because he does not get them. So how do they behave? My neighbor works there, he says, after three days they hold out, and then they're gone. It's not for me, it's not worth it. Because it takes some time to drive from Zasavje to Novo Mesto. Sometimes Litostro had picked up a bus at our place in Dolenjska, and he went to Litostro to Ljubljana every morning at four o'clock in the morning. It's gone. And if the work is so little stimulated that someone spends 10 hours or 11 hours a day with transports that I don't talk if they have to drive a train, then it's 12 hours and if the apprentice gets 500 euros in the third year in Austria, and ours – how much – 300, probably few will decide on these professions. Although the question is also when he asks what will happen in 10, 20 years, how many more of these professions will we need, what will we do? Probably something in the service business yet, but production probably doesn't. Things are not so simple and not so simple. We can't now introduce that apprenticeship that was 20 years ago, 30 years ago. It is necessary to adapt to the economy, in particular to the economy. I think it's too small for us to go to the horror of some attempt that's already been predestined to fail in the way you want to bring it in. Really, it's good that you went with some pilot project to see it first, but there was too little feeling, too little listening to the needs of the economy. In Dolenjska we no longer have education for the profession of builder, not one. And we need it, we probably need it, even though we've destroyed all the construction industry, not to say industry has been gone for a long time, because all of these semi-products are coming from abroad; in Italy it's worth it, in Austria it's worth producing, but obviously not with us, we're just putting it together. This path will not be easy, and I do not think that approach is the happiest. But we think the marriage will save everything. Not far. The law should eventually be adopted more loosely than this, to involve unions less and I don't know who else, but the smart ones we want to involve too much. The apprentice is a student who finishes primary school and continues to be educated whether he goes to high school or is a apprentice for a particular profession. After three years, a young boy or girl with a certain knowledge must come out in a certain area, happy, ready to work from his field and be paid a fair price for this work. We have to take care of this. During the period of apprenticeship, what a worker will be trained for in the economy will be proven, and you will likely also provide a job if it is true. But if he doesn't, he can't just say it on his own, I'm not leaving.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u41	Procedurally, Mr. Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm sorry, but after a discussion with my colleague Vesna Verveg, it ended somehow. I have to say that I received messages that Slovenian public should be told that the Chamber of Commerce and Industry did not just write 11. 1. what colleague Vesna said – I am sorry that she is not in the hall now – but also 31. 3. and this nine pages addressed to Dr. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, President of our Education Committee, where he expresses disagreement and proposes a series of amendments and calls for an improvement of this law before the decision in the National Assembly, that is, before this afternoon. I ask everyone, when we are discussing that we should, in fact, enlighten things from all sides. What the stakeholders have written to us, i.e. employers, in this case the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, should say the thing as it is, not only on the one hand. And that's what I had to say here, that the truth will also be satisfied. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u43	Thank you for this addition. We continue with Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat. Here you go, Mrs. Porotat, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, for your word. All the nice greetings, including ministers, secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to say something about this law too, because it seems to me that it is a very important law, because the introduction of apprenticeship is an important measure for the greater employability of young people, which is why we support it in the Desus Group. First of all, I would like to refer to the honourable fellow Member, Dr Trčko, who spoke about the content of Articles 36 and 37. I disagree with his view of these matters. I believe that these two laws have a very important content, as they provide an option, Article 36, for the retraining of an already employed worker in a company and Article 37 for the training of an unemployed person. In this article, I would like to say in particular that Mr Trček said that these are the unemployed, who are being reduced by overqualification and by the income that would be earned in this job when he became qualified, then to humiliate him. I don't think so. I think that the person who is unemployed by training for another job would, of course, be, if it were highly educated unemployed young people, who are produced by our colleges in too many numbers and, of course, then do not get a job, these young people will find a job in apprenticeship and they will be able to learn in that profession that is acceptable to them. And as I said, in this way they will soon be able to get a job, perhaps immediately after training, if they prove themselves to be good workers, reliable workers in their work at the company, where they will be practically educated in their new profession. Then they will have a greater opportunity to be employed by this employer than those who are reliable, workable and able to do so. Then I would like to say the following about this law. The implementation of the project has already been quite said today, including at the previous meeting, at the first reading of the law, as well as at the committee. However, I would like again to say that I am pleased that the Minister has prepared this law and that I am also pleased that, with her decision adopted in January, she has made it possible for the law to be implemented this school year. As we know, the law has not yet entered into force in January. As I said, the Minister has adopted a special decision on the introduction of an attempt to introduce the apprenticeship form of the implementation of secondary vocational education programmes. This was done on 9 January 2017 and thus provided the basis for the start of apprenticeship education already this year. It will be implemented in experimental form and at a limited number of schools and for a limited number of programmes. Let me list them, the Ministry assured or the Minister with this decision that this pilot project will be carried out throughout the country, namely in Koroška, Dolenjska, in central Slovenia, Gorenjska, Obala and also in Pomurje, for the professions of mazarje, metal designer, toolbox, gastronomy, hotelir. These are professions that are deficient and where those who will be educated in these professions also have the possibility of employment. The key message is that already in the next school year, this is in 2017/2018, apprenticeships have been carried out. Notwithstanding the fact that the law will not yet be applicable at the beginning of the new school year, the exercise of apprenticeship will not be compromised. To conclude, I'd like to say the following. This law was also supported by the State Council. He also presented his position on the Committee, where a representative of the State Council also proposed to the Minister of Education to prepare a change or reform of the Bologna system of higher and higher education. And in the end, as I have already said, in the Desus Group, we are pleased that the Ministry, the Minister, has drawn up this law, because, for the first time, the economy urgently needed it, and for the second time, young people needed it, as they will become employed through apprenticeship education. They will have the opportunity to get some education that will give them this basic secondary vocational education. They will also have the opportunity to upgrade their education and reach a higher level. Above all, it is important that they get to work. Because the most problematic in our country is youth unemployment. I also experience this in my home environment, where we have a granddaughter who has completed psychology, and there is no job. And that's where the problem is. And what this young man waits for, waits and waits for, the years run, he won't have a working age. This marriage, which is why I said, is very important, gives these people the opportunity to somehow get to a profession and start working and create a future. That is why this law in the Desus Group will be supported. But we will not support the amendments of the United Left. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u45	Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u46	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Colleagues and colleagues! Even on the committee, much has been said about this law, much has been said about who supports or does not support the law. Today, too, some concerns have been heard as to whether interested chambers support the law. I now understand their position somehow in the sense that they support it. At the very meeting of the committee, we heard Mrs Božena Germelj Drštněšek, who explained the position of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. First of all, she stated that she supported the reintroduction of apprenticeship education and then explained how the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise had participated in the development of the content of the Act. Finally, she concluded that the apprenticeship law will be tested, as Mrs. Minister has already said, I now quote, “by trying or later after the adoption of the law with a project that will last until 2021, and we hope, on the basis of an attempt, that we will understand all the advantages and disadvantages of this law and, on the basis of experience, we reasonably expect the legislator to take note of the comments and that the law will also be amended or adapted after the completion of the project.” In short, given that this law is also supported by the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, it is equally supported by the lady from the Chamber of Agriculture and Economy of Slovenia, the real opponents other than those who are political stakeholders, I do not see. I understand some of your concerns, I think they stem from a different concept of apprenticeship. Some of the apprenticeships you interpret as a work relationship, some as an educational process, the law is moderate in this direction, it is an educational process and it pulls a kind of thing behind you that some you don't want or you don't want to understand. One of these things is of course that the apprentice is not a worker, he is not a worker within the meaning of the Labour Relations Act, that is to do the work on his own according to the employer's instructions. On the other hand, the employer cannot ask him to do all he can from another employee. The Chamber of Commerce and Industry presented some of its amendments, which we would like for the apprentices to be able to work at night, such as on Sundays. I don't think that would be what we call an educational process anymore, but it would be a job. Of course, this is why we have not supported such an amendment. Since this is an educational process, the role of trade unions, which I consider relevant organisations, is also slightly reduced. However, I still think their role in this work is important, for example, when they also propose members of the commission to monitor the implementation of apprenticeships. I think that this Commission will play an important role when they write these reports and their views on the exercise of apprenticeship, where, or after some examination of the exercise itself, they will also be able to identify those traps of apprenticeship that could possibly be demonstrated in practice. It is that someone would not be in the educational process, but actually at the threshold of work as a worker and would take the wrong path, which some point to. One of the dilemmas is the role of the unemployed. I support the provisions of the law, which also concerns the unemployed, on their ability to exercise apprenticeship. I do not see this as part of an active employment policy in the sense that, through apprenticeship, the work that the Ministry of Labour, the family is obliged to do, but is a possibility that the unemployed, who may be older, may also be young, to enable them to do some retraining if employers want it, and that they can actually somehow enter the labour market independently and then maybe increase their chances of concluding a labour relationship. So I have no qualms about supporting this law. Of course, I will not say now but priori that it is great and fine, as the lady from the Chamber of Commerce and Industry said, after this pilot project, we will see where the problems, where the possible mistakes in the marriage are, and I believe that they will be corrected accordingly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u47	Mr. Miha Kordish, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u48	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. Members, Members of Parliament, discussers on the government's side, often get stupid in this Chamber. It is very rare, however, that this nonsense is as big a pile as we are witnessing today. In fact, this is the second time we have had this opportunity. The first opportunity was yesterday when we listened to the second track's defense of a variant which is absolutely impossible to defend, but now we have this apprenticeship proposal ahead of us. On this proposal, we have tabled a number of amendments already on the Committee in the United Left, a large part of them have been rejected, and then a large number of these amendments have been transferred to this meeting because they have simply not been accepted. But on the board itself, I actually had the question of whether that makes sense, what we're doing, because the law we got on the table could legitimately just rumble into a furnace. I am not talking about conceptualization, what apprenticeship is, what apprenticeship is not, or whether it should serve as a cheap labour force for employers, or whether it should serve as a tool for the broad practical education of students, is less important at this time, because those who are on opposite shores in these conceptual issues are also very quickly determined that this apprenticeship law has been so concise, so vague, vague, confusing, confused, ludicrous that the purpose of writing amendments and the effort to defend them is to question them, even because coalition parties, like a voting machine, are shot down, even if they are relatively editorial interventions. That this law was completely indigestible, there were also comments by the Law-Legal Service, few of them. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service has come to the committee and it is true that I have only been in this Parliament for three years, but in these three years I have not seen anything like what I have witnessed on this committee when the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service has practically gone mad; that what you are going through is that this simply cannot go through. Of course she was right. Such a trampling, as Comrade Franjo, Comrade Franjo earlier said, would have to be done and repaired later. The world existed before us, it will exist behind us, and now, if you push this through the mills of the National Assembly, you will just load up the extra work for someone who will come after you. If I go to the content itself, the matter becomes even twice as problematic. We're gonna get a new bottom on the holiday jobs. The law on apprenticeship, as we have it, introduces a new category of penitentiary workers, another step below the current situation. In the student, the student organisation prepared a calculation, they also presented it to the committee, and after that calculation came out, that the average income of the apprentice would be over €100 per month there, but under this law he would survive the minimum half of the study process at the employer's workshop. More! We don't just talk about young people, like we would normally think. They're still unemployed here, and there's someone else, and there's requalifications up and down. All of this really testifies to the fact that we have yet another form of reassurance, exploitation, social security and so on. That is why our first amendment, which we have tabled, says that apprenticeship should be directed only to students who are under the age of 26. This sounds like a pretty healthy solution, but unfortunately it has not been supported so far, and it is clear that it will not be supported at the plenary hearing as well. If I go forward and stop at the third article, which defines the objectives of this law, these goals are in the wrong place – I will say so. If anything, they are part of the introduction of the bill, but not in section 3 of this Act, which, by the way, has also been pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service. Then they are in ruin with the provisions of this same law, which is one of many tramps here. They are also completely indigestible to the surface. This is how we can read in the third indent of Article 3 in order to promote through apprenticeship the integration of the economy into the education system. So, economic incursion, intrusion of capital interests into the education system. Or the fifth indent to ensure that apprenticeship is adequately trained in the economy and promotes the employment of young people. Please explain to me how this law promotes the employment of young people! Nowhere is there any provision that would in any way oblige the employer to take the apprentice or the former apprentice to work. And by the way, in the United Left with the amendment, we propose precisely this – that the employer employs these people after the sessions of apprenticeship. Please show me how the hell this law will speed up the employment of young people? In addition to your ideological Flossules, free market, yes, there will be some talented young man who will prove himself in the process of apprenticeship in a workshop and then somehow magically get a job. Hey, companies, employers, craftsmen, capitalists, whatever you call them, are employed when they have a job, when they have enough work to take another new person to the company who will bring them money, with or without apprenticeship. I ask you nicely how the hell does this law promote the employment of young people if it does not give young people any rights and no access to employment. Furthermore, this law also provides that apprentices should carry out at least 50 % of the study process or a minimum of 50 % of the study programme as practical training for the employer. Basically, young people rob half of their education. Instead of socializing with peers - because the school also has a socialization function; believe it or not, it is not just here to frame the staff for employers. So, instead of socializing with their peers at school, there they gained some broad knowledge and complemented it — that, even with practical work — the whole logic has turned here; young people practically without the right to work in workshops to work there for a miserable wage, so that someday employers may take them to work and earn them on their backs. And here we do not talk, see, about a false dilemma of theory or practice, as one of the advocates of this law would like to hold a debate. It's not true at all! Look, we have this practice, and we have a different practice. Practice can serve and is really focused on young people, on apprentices and provide them with a range of broad practical skills, but it can be regarded as an extension of the machine for a concrete work process. And this is exactly what we are dealing with – the derogation of practice, after all. In the United Left, we propose that these provisions change so that people can spend more time in school, with their peers and so on and less than the machine’s extension to an employer. Syndicates to participate in the preparation of the apprenticeship implementation plan is the next set of our amendments. Trade unions are the organisation of the working class, defending its rights, fighting and so on, once better, twice worse, and it is right to participate in the preparation of this plan. I see no reason to rule them out of this. However, the Chambers should be excluded from certain powers conferred under this Act. Records, school records, personal data from mentors, apprentices and so on — these are the data that the country must collect, process, process. However, apprenticeship is part of the public educational system. Then why would they leave all this information and guidance to their private employers? There is no public interest behind this! But when the Chambers, the Medical Chamber, and the Chamber of Commerce, and so on, took care of anything other than their own ass, let me tell you this. They're nothing. And this is where the government goes 100 percent opposite. All that is to be done by the Chambers and the entire process of apprenticeship is to be financed from the public register. From the public register for the private interest of employers. Part of these costs should be borne by European funds – okay, if we can get European funds to help employers here; fine, let them be. But everything else is gone. Public funds, public interest. Now they are some private people who serve their own gainful interests, but somehow I don't see why public funds, taxpayers, would sponsor their future workforce. There is no objective reason for such a thing, but there is a strong ideological reason for the coalition, including those parties of the coalition who are dealing with a social, pension, but I do not know what title, in fact, the agency of employers. You work for capital, for wealth, for employers! And the only workers and the pensioners you throw under the cart of gainful interest. Unfortunately, this amendment of the United Left was also rejected on the Committee; that employers should finance the training of their own workforce, so that we had to put it into a somewhat distorted version, however. As well as keeping records by the Chambers, training of mentors is also considered. I don't know here either, I don't think I see how they would really be up to this and we suggest that the socialists train the mentors to train the Centre of the Republic of Slovenia for Vocational Education. Which brings me to the set of amendments on the content of which I have already spoken, namely that the law should contain a provision which obliges employers to employ apprentices after they have completed their apprenticeship. They are sponsored to educate people, then to be committed to taking them to work — they already have far too many privileges in our society. The mid-term test under this law excludes schools. I don't even know why. Includes the Section for Vocational Education of the Republic of Slovenia, includes the interim examination procedure on a proposal from the Chamber and it is not clear why schools are excluded from the process of preparing the content of this midterm test. Once again, I stress that we are talking about apprenticeship as part of the public education system and the only meaningful thing, and it is only right that then schools as public institutions have their voice under public democratic control in this mid-term test. The following provision and the following amendment are social, namely that apprentices should be compulsory pension and disability insurance if they are already working with the employer for a purely low payment. This is just a minimum of social security that can be afforded to them. Then there is the greater role of trade unions in protecting the rights of apprentices, which this law completely bullies. It concludes an approximate review of the amendments of the United Left which we have prepared for this meeting of the National Assembly and, in general, let me conclude with this. Practicing could be a good thing. Part of the general view is, not least, broad practical visibility and practical competence, which refers to creativity, which leads to diligence and so forth, but through this apprenticeship law, all these capacities are subordinated to capital. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u49	Mr. Ivan Škodnik, if you please, it is your turn, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u50	Thank you for your word. Dear representatives of the Ministry! Colleagues and fellow Members! Perhaps you would have answered first because a colleague named Kordish asked that someone would have answered him about how young people could get a job. I'll try to answer that question first. I'm going to try very simple, very easy. You know it's hard for young people to get a job. With this form of apprenticeship, somehow, because we have data for Europe, in certain countries where apprenticeships are more or less developed, at least much more than they were in Slovenia, this possibility of employment in the economy is much greater. How are things with us? This pilot project has chosen four professions in the economy. For the four professions through which young people who could be educated through this model or apprenticeship could be employed by the employer when they come to a certain knowledge after three years. Of course, the employer is not obliged to accept it, nor is it compulsory for the apprentice to be employed. You both have some rights. You too, if you hired someone, you'd try it out in three months, and then you'd see it go on. But you can't just get him to work for an indefinite period of time when he barely steps into the apprenticeship. This is not going anywhere in practice, and it will never work with us. There will be more of these professions later, and so there will be a path that will come, which will be an opportunity for young people to be able to work, because they will have a job ahead of them. We have certain jobs in the economy, but there is no interest. One form is that these young people can go through this regular form. But there can also be someone who is 50 years old and has the will to get an education for some profession through this apprenticeship form, someone would hire him, things would run out, things would probably not go in this form as they are in school, but a group would be organized if there were more of them, education would be organised and those older ones could come along this way and they would be able to get a job. That's what this is all about. I hope I've answered as easily as I can. Then I would return to my colleague Lisco, who was among the first discussers. I wrote myself a little bit, and I would try so in general to respond to certain amendments that have been put in place, but apparently my colleague has not yet received an answer. I'll try to answer something on my own. Look, you've requested or you're still asking for a public statement of opinions. For a long time there has been talk about apprenticeship in our country, there has been a lot of talk since you made this suggestion, a lot has been said, so it didn't go through so fast. But there was a presentation in the State Council, and I think it was very good. I was alone all the time that day, and I must say that even the representatives of the Chamber of Commerce were there when we debated it, they supported this law, and I didn't get any such big comments there to say, no, this law will not go through. I was there the whole time, talking to the president of the Chamber of Commerce. But I believe they're amendments. Certain things then stood up and then you wrote the amendments based on those wishes. There is nothing wrong with it, there is nothing wrong with it at all, because certain things are also well - arranged and will probably improve in the long run. I'll tell you what, there's a theory, there's a practice. It is very difficult for someone to specifically speak of apprenticeship if he has not gone through this form of education. I went through this form from 1971 to 1974, but, of course, it was a lot different then today. Certain things must be laid down in law in order to protect a student — an apprentice. You need to know that the apprentice here is a weak article that needs to be protected in some way. It was talked about apprentice student, Today we are actually talking about apprentice in the sense that this is a student who is in extended practical training with the employer. In the existing form of a vocational education system, there are 24 weeks of practical training in three years, except for a gastronomy hotel manager where there are 29. However, the proposed form of apprenticeship is 56 weeks. Some also object to why an apprentice or a student can terminate the contract for no reason. Of course, it can; first, it is not even in a working relationship, and secondly, workers who are in a working relationship can terminate the contract without an explanation. Why, though, should the apprentice explain why he broke up his work relationship? Pedagogical-Andragogical education. There was no talk about it today, but there was talk all the time. I think it's necessary because it's not about telling me that these mentors don't have professional skills in employers, it's not about expertise, it's about how to pass on knowledge. We know that apprentices or students are half the time in three years in practice, in training. Of course, at this time, about 20% of the time that the mentor has to deal with this student or apprentice, how this knowledge will teach this student is very important. It's not that he doesn't have the knowledge, it's how he'll tell him that the apprentice will understand that he'll understand as easily as possible and that he'll be as qualified as possible after that education. That's why this is about pedagogical education. I see a solution in this pilot project because in practice it has proved that many things are wrong. I remember a targeted education there in 1980, what a disaster that was. Later, after the 1990 ’ s, a craftsman’s education system appeared there, which was also a form of dual system, and the matter did not come to light. Then it appeared in 1996 to 2006 this dual, where actually apprentices also had working hours. This was a huge burden for employers; for some more, for others, of course less. I understand that at the time the matter became unsustainable. At the time, I also participated as an organiser of practical training and many others, and I know that, as I mentioned in the discussions before there were two treaties; one was an official contract and the other was unofficial, and then the apprentices lasted those three years. Which means that they practically didn't get any prizes, and they had to carry the lunch with them, not to talk about covering transportation costs. This is in the pilot project now all somehow defined, even the awards are very good and this system is set up to come to life after 2022. Next, to be permanent, so that we do not interrupt, for even apprentices can say that they are not testy rabbits. We can't play with them, so it's totally voluntary by the individual who's going to choose this profession, this form with whom he's going to make a learning contract, and also what school he's going to be educated in. So I think this system is very good, but of course there are a lot of things that will have to be worked out, and if we get to the system when we talk about Europe Let's say, if we follow the German, Austrian, Swiss, it will take a lot of time. Look, the Germans have been building the apprenticeship system for 50 years. It's different with them, but look where it came from. These young people or workers in the economy who have gone through this system are highly valued and have good wages. Of course, the Germans are known to have the best developed economy not only in Europe but also in the world. I am so optimistic about this, and I support this law. I think that we will come through this solution over a period of time, but, of course, after this pilot project or somewhere in 2022, there will be an analysis, and I believe that then there will be any such or other changes, that the law will continue and that apprenticeship will continue, because an economy without apprenticeship, I think that we too will not be able to exist. And I don't think that vocational education is bad for us, but this is one supplement that is also needed in the economy. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u51	Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u52	Mr President, thank you. Some clarifications have been made on topics that have often been highlighted in the current explanations by you, Members, first of all on the unemployed. All the traditional apprentice states, of which we have also learned in the preparation of this law, include both adults and unemployed persons who have the opportunity to enter the apprenticeship form. So it's not unusual for systems that have traditionally done this. Why is that? The key reason is in the type and structure of the activity. For many times it happens that an activity, such as glassmaking, papermaking and the like, cannot, in fact, join the direct production process at all, precisely because it is necessary to protect both labour-related and operational learning training. It is therefore very important that we leave to our employers what is really needed at some point in time. Before that, the welding was mentioned. This is a typical example of how it is documented in and with the employer, together in a way that we can effectively save not only the job but also, above all, the competitive work of the employer, while maintaining or upgrading jobs. Chambers. There are many opposite visions within the chamber. Again, for the reasons of the activities covered by the Chambers. Employers who draw attention to the different situations within individual jobs, the burden on jobs and also to the specific activity. On the one hand, one of the chambers advocated that young people, say 15 years of age, should also do night work, work within Sunday’s working time and so on. The others weren't up for it. Some employers have also explicitly highlighted this. At the same time, there have been a number of discussions at the beginning about what is better for the implementation of this law, whether this young participant is in apprenticeship or that he is a student. It has proved to be and, above all, it has been the intention of us law-makers, both our Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of the Economy, in particular to protect the young or apprentice in the workplace, both working hours and, of course, in view of potential risks to them due to the nature of the work process. Since we have a variety of industrial activities, including in crafts, it is therefore necessary to find a common denominator and therefore we have also proposed in law the implementation of this in the way we have already presented to you. So, a student, a student in a place of study with an employer, who must also be protected in all rights, especially when it comes to adolescents by the age of 18, it is very, very important. I would like to stress that the opportunity for employers to train or even target new forms of education for their adult employees or that they also have the opportunity to be unemployed is no new phenomenon in the European Union district; on the contrary, even certain apprenticeships are developing mainly in a system of cooperation between schools in ways that we have already learned through teaching individual contracts, upgrading them and so on. One more thing. The test was mentioned earlier. The test shall be carried out at the workplace or study site. Why? To test practical knowledge, skills. It was your discussion that said how important it is that this skill work is actually acquired in a way that it can be used immediately for either a new job or an existing job; therefore, that an individual is prepared for and includes the law. It also includes the active work of commissions, i.e. all stakeholders in the process check the performance of individual work, learning and meeting learners as well as practical objectives. Finally, the participation of mentors, mentors in companies or tradesmen and mentors on the side of the education system in secondary schools is extremely important. Why is their cooperation so important? In fact, either an apprentice or someone who is in this educational form leads to both practical goals and learning goals. Without cooperation, it won't work here. Again, I would like to point out that the Chambers had very different views, that the January and March views presented also show how certain positions have changed. In doing so, let me point out that the key problem was actually the inclusion of adults or unemployed, where we do not see any problems, as it appears that, at least in the opinion of the Chambers, this is mainly linked to certain industrial activities. Keep going. What is extremely important is that we have found in the preparation of the law a real balance between the interests of all involved and believe that they were extremely different and at the same time very complex. In fact, it was not easy to prepare this law. And not only that; what specializes him is, in fact, the specificity of the form that we need to make for permanent and sustainable. This does not depend solely on the education system, this depends in particular on the good cooperation of the chambers and employers and of course on the quality of the mentoring system on both sides. If we do not trust in this, I stress again, and if we do not accept this responsible role, then believe that we will not have many enrolled students and students in the first generations of the apprenticeship system. However, I think that this is a key interest of all of us, the public interest – the interest in reducing youth unemployment and at the same time their integration into the labour market as quickly as possible. This is a common opportunity for all of us. As I have already said, the President would also suggest that, in accordance with Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure, the Government should propose at this meeting that a third hearing should also take place, if possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u53	Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u54	Thank you very much. I find it difficult to say that, after the Minister's execution, I find it easier, perhaps a little more understandable. First of all, allow the answer to a fellow Škodnik, who, I am sure, knows this very well, and I know that it comes from practice, but Mr Škodnik said that this article 28 is essentially great that the apprentice can at any time during the duration of the apprenticeship contract without explanation cancel the apprenticeship contract. Put yourself in the role of employer. Would you take into the apprenticeship system a young man you don't know about Tuesday if he comes back to you again on Wednesday? I don't believe it myself. I wouldn't take it if I was on this side, but I did a student's job for four years, which is a little different, but believe me, even to us, the students were very strict, or we'll come. I say my experience when I first came to ask for a woodworking company, if I could work through a student, was the answer of the main manager: “The only thing they have in their head is what they will earn, and they would do nothing anyway. And from those who come, half of them escape before one month." But we don't have any guards here to keep the apprentice somehow. For the employer full of certain moments to meet and the apprentice may cancel the apprenticeship contract without explanation. A very unilateral decision! As it is said — and by doing so, I will rejoin the role of the congregations — a very strange decision. And when we're talking about the study, I think that -- I'm sorry, there's a lot of these articles, they're talking about, I think article 12, that's right. He says: “The competent chambers prepare and publish the invitation to the apprenticeships...” et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. And then we go to 40 to 45 articles that talk about records. What do these articles say? To establish, maintain, maintain and supervise a register of apprenticeships containing, maintain and monitor records of apprentices containing, monitor records of mentors containing, and so on. [[…]] [[…]] [[…]] Dear Minister, you said everyone must have a mission. The more I look at this law, the less I see the role of competent ministries, except in transitional provisions, where it states that the Ministry of Education shall appoint a commission to monitor the implementation of apprenticeships within 6 months of the application of this law. But everything else, the chambers, the chambers, the chambers, the employers, the employers, the employers, something small about the apprentices, and here it is important that they can go when they want, as I said before, five minutes earlier show you one finger on hand and say, "Dear employer, article 28 of the Law on apprenticeship allows me to clean up and go, and you do the apprenticeship system as you wish. And a little bit of school and so on. But the key is, the chambers, the chambers, the chambers, and when they say that they are not going to do this – although, above all, you say from the types of SMC how enthusiastic the chambers are almost over this law, in this sense – then we have a problem. Once again, colleague Škodnik, because I know you believe in this system, you probably remember why this system failed in 2006. Not because of schools, not because of records, not because of apprentices, not because of ministries, but because of chambers or employers, tradesmen. Here we give them a great deal of everything that the Legal and Legislative Service also points out, and we expect a miracle from them; the Ministry is well removed: the Chambers will do everything. It is likely that not even those amendments that say that the state is keeping records in place of the Chamber will not be supported today – and then we will be doing so under the following amendments. In short, I miss this law – this article 28 is a disaster as far as the safety of the employer is concerned. Otherwise, I can say that I am an idealist and how all apprentices are great, but I know young people, at least in Posav, who attend vocational and professional education, because we have mostly this, but if 10% of these apprentices are such that they will remember this article, we will all have a problem; first we, because we have adopted this law, then employers, then schools and so on. In short, I miss the greater role of the three ministries, not just the Ministry of Education, which is on the web of what belongs, under which the department is responsible. Here, much more than the Minister of Education, who received this backpack called the Law on apprenticeship, would expect the Minister of Economy and the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. They both said, yes, great, apprenticeship is part of the education system, and two-thirds of the law on chambers and employers. And this place, which is usually here for the Ministry of Economy, is completely empty. And I also read the tape of the session, and I listened to it for a while, and then I read the magnetogram of the session of the working body — yes, fine, right? They're clapping. I'd like to know how constructive they were to the minister. Or did they say you're a department secretary, you deal with it, and whatever happens, it will. In short, I really expect that in these articles, there would be a greater commitment of ministries or states, if you want to not only monitor the implementation of this law through a commission, but that it is the main generator, not to cross and break problems at the chambers and at employers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u55	Mr Ivan Škodnik has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u56	Thank you for your word. I have to take this, but no, I don't mean anything bad, because my colleague is very good, constructive, professionally discussing it, but to explain what I thought before. Look, there could be a conflict between this young student or apprentice and the employer, I'm not going to say, a brief contact, a conflict that you can't really explain. I do not welcome here in this sense to say at least that this would be as much and so forth as possible. But he can come. I know that I have had certain situations, even when I was an apprentice and this must be a guardian and we must protect young people. I don't think it's going to happen at all, but if it does, it has to be covered in this marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u57	I'm guessing there's still interest. Dr. Matić, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Madam Minister, distinguished Madam Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! Today, we have a classical distribution in the debate: on the United Left, we are concerned that children will be exploited, that they will be robbed, I don't know, of their childhood, by the SDS, they feel sorry for employers who, according to their assessment, are insanely exposed, because the minor can only cancel apprenticeship. Anyway, it's a classic situation. You certainly praised the fact that you have drawn up a marriage despite such very different interests, which are often in conflict and often have to be carefully and carefully weighed to come up with a compromise that will, of course, last for a long time. It is certainly commendable that the law is based on the dialogue of all stakeholders in order to take the chambers into account to an appropriate extent. However, it is logical and urgent, as Mr Lisec also said, and Mr Horvat also reiterated behind him that in 2005 the system had failed or that the chambers had drowned it. Of course, Mr from the United Left, who earlier expressed himself that apprenticeship would be full fine, said this insince it is precisely the purpose of their amendments to prevent or destroy this system of apprenticeship; and this is precisely in such a way as to attack the chambers, which have been demeaningly named by the expression that they care only for their own ass and that they want to exploit young people as cheap labour. Then there was a lot of talk here that the students had calculated that they would earn less than 100 euros, which the minister argued on the committee had refused; then that it was an invasion of the interests of capital, of the education system. Then came this interesting debate about how employment is being accelerated, and the idea that there is no provision to prescribe that it is mandatory to hire someone who has completed this apprenticeship period, that there is an issue somewhere, that employers are some kind of primitive who underestimate the apprentices who will exploit them and that they only need some manual and uneducated workforce and that they are not at all interested in getting some qualified young power that would go through the apprenticeship system. So these flossules were, of course, very much below the level. At the same time, there is also some pitiful perception of European funds when they say that European funds, yes, public funds, which are integral, are not, because this is a public interest in our resources. European funds, but this is some rich capitalist who threw a bag of money at us, and now we can spend a little so much here, and this is obviously not public funds after the United Left, although, I don't know, we would probably need a little more education on the subject of what European funds are and where they come from and that Slovenia also contributes to them. To rob the school process of the one who will participate in this apprenticeship process, of course, is also a flossule and constitutes an attack on the very idea of apprenticeship. What is another apprenticeship, such as that of combining the school process with the craftsman himself, with the employer himself, who will train this young man or unemployed man to get to work faster, to be more competitive, to have more knowledge and to prove himself through this apprenticeship process than someone who can then be trusted by the employer? I also do not understand the United Left when it practically attacks the system of apprenticeships and attacks this entanglement of education and this apprenticeship process. Because, after all, their predecessor or ideological one of their parties, Edward Kardelj, advocated in fact that the learning process must be intertwined with the work process and that there is some pre-conditional work process or necessity for us to have a responsible employee later, who will be able to appreciate the work as well. That the purpose of this law is to get into the workshops for poor young people’s miserable payment – I think this is really a matter of complete distortion and exaggeration. However, I wonder to the United Left that it is against apprenticeship, if we remember, because Joseph Broz was once a keynote apprentice or something like that, and a revolutionary person developed from this. Maybe that's where the Hummus for the United Left would be, too, to find some footage in the future, so I think they're sort of going against their own interests. As far as what Mr. Horvat has described dramatically how buses ride in the countryside near his village, how young people gather and suffer in these means of transport, take them to Austria, where they offer them apprenticeship, and then, of course, he dramatically concluded with this: What should we do, what should we do? What else should we do, such as try to do with such laws as this, which we are considering today, offer an alternative to young people to have a perspective at home, not to go out, so that they will also have an option for domestic employers, one perspective. In this regard, this law should be welcomed, also because it prevents what Mrs Ludmila Novak mentioned and which was also the amendment of the Chamber of Commerce to make young people work at night and at weekends, this is, of course, unacceptable. This is also unacceptable under international law, even under other legislation, which we have and which these findings are completely unfounded. Of course, it is necessary to take care of the interests of young people so that they will still have all the rights they want to be protected, as they need to be. On the other hand, it should be pointed out that these footnotes on how to humiliate unemployed adults by offering them apprenticeships should be rejected. It is possible for an unemployed person to be without a steady source of income, for without a job where he could apply his creativity, even his own existence and care for it — such a person may be the most humiliated. This mechanism offers people who are unemployed, a certain perspective, an opportunity to reclassify themselves, to achieve a new personal perspective, to find their place on the labour market, and in this sense it is also an opportunity for adult apprentices who are not minors, welcome and commendable. I believe that this law will live; it is reasonably set up through a pilot project; the possibility is, as has been repeatedly mentioned, that the law will also be corrected on the basis of these experiences that the pilot project will accept so that all of these possible negative connotations or negative experiences that could be demonstrated will be taken into account later. And, of course, it will not happen that he would be sunk by one or the other or by the third party, as was the case, unfortunately, in the case described by Mr Lisec from their ghastly experiences, unfortunately, coincidental. Once again, congratulations on the drafting of this law and I believe that it will successfully pass the parliamentary procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u59	Thank you, Dr. Matic. Colleagues, would anyone else like to discuss this point or amendment? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the Joint Left Group. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendment of the Joint Left Group. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 12 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the United Left. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. Since the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposal to Article 48, we will discuss them together, so I am putting to the debate Article 16 and Article 48 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors the United Left to the articles and amendments of the NSI Group of Ambassadors to Article 16. Anybody want to talk? I guess I don't see that I do. [[…]] Mr. Tomaž Lisec, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u60	Just a second to find out, because I've written down certain things. I've got it here, thank you. Article 16 Form and content of the contract and application of the rules. I have to say, when I read the United Left Amendment, I have a problem. Otherwise, it is ideal that after the apprentice completes the apprenticeship system, he stays with the employer. But, as I said before, the practices are very different and it would probably be too idealistic to believe in this system, so that the employer will then make an even easier decision about this law. He's gonna say I'm gonna get an apprentice, and I'm gonna have a problem, and I'm gonna have to hire him in the end! However, we all know that if we want a flexible labour market, such an amendment will probably bring a lot more problems than positive issues. On the other hand, I was curious, and when I tried to make amendments, I tried to convince myself whether it was really necessary to include 19 points in the apprenticeship contract. Personally, it seems to me that in all this technology, if you want to, the Internet age, we have to have so much and so much written in one contract – not because the problem for an information officer who finds the problem only when he wants it, but this is another story – whether all these elements in the apprenticeship contract are really necessary if we know that we want a simple system, that this connection between the employer and the apprentice will be as practical as possible and that we will be as little as possible in our proposal for a law that we have twice introduced in the past, we have tried to withdraw to the side track as possible. These are the administrative burdens, which are in fact, because, over and over again, the employment contract, the fulfilment of the forms [[…]] Therefore, it may be an appeal, since the article is open, that we may all consider, together, deleting a line in the third reading. And I'm going to tie myself to another department, and I hope the chairman lets me. In the last two, three months, when I walk around round tables, in particular in the field of agriculture, everyone is simply saying that the problem is neither tax, income or legislative, any other, substantive burden of certain segments or stakeholders, but only as little administration as possible. The Minister of Education probably also agrees with this; but, as we say, we probably miss another interlocutor here who would be the right addressee for whether he is truly such apprentices, and especially employers, namely craftsmen, but if we know that there will be a lot of things going on for that small, simple craftsman who is either self-employed or two or three, maybe a family company that would gladly take the apprenticeship, and he will say what he has said over the last few years: I have enough of these administrations in this Slovenia, I will not go into any new form of work, let it be a traineeship, apprenticeship, student work or anything else, because he simply has enough to deal with administration. And this article 16 is related to Article 48, which speaks of what the second cancer is — criminal provisions. Otherwise, they are still quite relative, but EUR 3 000 for a number of employers, especially if they are self-employed or if they are a family business, can be a negative expenditure that is difficult, not only within a month, but during their multi-month operation they get back. Here is, in particular, my debate in this sense that we need to discuss once in this Slovenia whether we really need so much of this administration, the bureaucracy with which we then have all the problems, and in the end these unfortunate penal provisions with different fines, which in fact all those we want to take to some system, so this time in the apprenticeship system, are even more dissuading. Because they say it's not a problem to have an apprentice with us for 8 hours, only to make a two-hour deal with the apprentice as soon as possible, and then when we're done, we'll officially finish it in two hours, and at one lunch, it usually happens, but not that I need early records, in between records, and then when the apprentice is finished, I won't say get rid of it, but when it's finished, I'll tell you again. That's what everyone wants to do at home. I hope that there may be some kind of reflection here, but I say, I would rather have another official from another ministry to try to dissuade such an apprentice, a school, but not least the employer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u61	Anyone else want to discuss these two amendments? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 18 and the amendment of the NSI Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 22 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 28 and the amendment of the NSI Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 33 and the amendment of the ZL Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 35 and the amendment of the SMC, DeSUS and SD groups and the amendment of the ZL Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 41 and the amendment of the ZL Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I'm guessing yes. Sir, Tomaž Lisec, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u62	Thank you very much again, Vice President. I think that the provisions of Articles 40 and 45 talk about what I have already begun to discuss a little while ago, and these are happy or unfortunate records that I know must be, but I have more problems with this. With regard to Article 40, I know that it is not open, but I hope the President that it is allowed to do so says: With regard to keeping records of schools which are not regulated by this law, the provisions of the law governing vocational and professional education shall apply. We return to that systemic, non-systematic, whether it's a new law or an existing law, but that's how they decided. But it's embarrassing to write, which is not regulated by this law, but it's that law that is essentially a system law and then it's hard to talk about systemicity. When we talk about Article 41 in conjunction with certain amendments, I must say that here, when it is written, I quote, “... the chambers have too much competence as proposed by law, the main review of the exercise of apprenticeship must be in the hands of the State”, at least in the field of records I agree with that. I must say that I have written down everywhere, as it has already been said, that the competent chambers set up, maintain and maintain, monitor a survey of apprenticeships containing, the leader controls records of apprentices containing, records of mentors containing and so on. [[…]] [[…]] In short, in my opinion, if there are so many records, I once again urge that, if not now in the next novel, we reduce them. Once again, I would like to ask for an answer as to why the competent ministries have decided to place the burden of setting up, maintaining, and maintaining records or transferring them to the chambers, why this work is not done by those who receive a salary. These, however, are designated official offices designated by sectors within one, another or third ministry. Personally, this chapter would be much easier for me if we wrote: The Ministry of Economy has established, leads, maintains and supervises the display of all this. If they want to be referred to as piarian, then the Ministry of Economy should do something about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u63	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this amendment? I guess not. That is why I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 44 and the amendment of the ZL Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 47 and the amendment of the ZL Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 10th item of the agenda. With this, I also interrupt this agenda item. We're moving to nine. Agenda item — Second defence of the proposal for a law on the justice of the world within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Magi Minister for Justice. Goran Klemenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u64	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and other Members present! Today we are considering the proposal for a law on the Council of Justice. This is the first independent regulation in the history of the Republic of Slovenia, designed for the systematic regulation of the position, powers and role of the Council of Justice, which is an important building block of the judicial system in the Republic of Slovenia and is key to ensuring the independence of judges as a whole, as well as of course to promote accountability, efficiency and quality of the judiciary. Under the Constitution, the Council of Justice is an independent and independent State authority with special status, which does not belong to any of the three branches of government. To put it simply, it is a key judicial staff. Its powers include selection procedures for judges, the appointment of presidents of regular courts, the adoption of criteria and time standards for the work of courts, the decision on the progress of judges, the peace of judicial service and so on. Important additional powers are aimed at protecting on the one hand the independence of individual judges and the judiciary as a whole and, on behalf of society and public interest, strengthening the responsible functioning of the judiciary, promoting its responsibility, effectiveness and quality. The purpose of the law is therefore to regulate the situation, competence and role of this important constitutional structure of the judicial system and thus to put it at the side of the constitutional and other state bodies, whose position and powers are governed by independent laws. In previous discussions, in particular in the general debate, the opposition pointed out that it was only a glue to the existing provisions of other laws, that the law was not new and that there was no reform. It is true that an important part of the articles in this law has been transposed from the Law on Courts and the Law on Judicial Service, which is logical. For more than two decades, the Council of Justice has also been a constitutional category and, of course, beyond the framework set by the Constitution, it is not possible to go beyond the composition of competence. However, it certainly does not hold that the law does not have added systemic value and does not bring news and a step forward towards strengthening the rule of law, accountability and transparency of the functioning of the judiciary. Let me just list some of the key and important changes that are ahead of you today. The proposal for a law gives the Council full jurisdiction and at the same time the responsibility to monitor the judge from his appointment, to assess his work, progress and ethical and disciplinary violations. An important novelty is the regulation of disciplinary proceedings against judges who are fully transferred from the judiciary to the Council of Justice as a body composed not only of judges but also of external legal experts. The powers of appointment and discharge of disciplinary authorities shall be delegated from the Supreme Court to the Council of Justice, to the authority whose members are appointed by the National Assembly. The seat of disciplinary authorities shall be transferred from the Supreme Court to the Council of Justice. The structure and composition of disciplinary bodies has been changed. The next important element is that the Court becomes a self-sustaining budgetary user. More clearly, judicial protection regarding the decisions it takes and, more importantly, greater transparency of its work is provided, through recording meetings, reporting to the National Assembly, for example, the report should also include an analysis of the situation in the judiciary in the past year and a forecast for the following year. The relationship between the four key actors in relation to the judiciary is more clear and in keeping with the principle of mutual barriers and balances: the Council of Justice, the Supreme Court, the National Assembly, the Ministry of Justice. In addition to this, there are a number of minor changes in the jurisdiction of the Council of Justice, which are also important. For example, in the area of their competence, in the area of the establishment of a network of courts, annual and financial plans of the judiciary, the power to make a request for a constitutional and legal assessment before the Constitutional Court. In short, the solutions proposed are aimed at strengthening the role and position of the Council of Justice. The purpose of the new powers and the transfer of powers relating to disciplinary proceedings against judges is also to contribute to increasing general confidence in justice. I hope that you will support the law, but I also propose that the National Assembly at this meeting also carry out a third examination of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u65	Thank you, Minister Klemenčič. The draft law was treated by the Justice Committee as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Jan Škobernet, President of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! The Justice Committee is at its 33rd session. 4. 2017 as a work mother treated the proposal for a law on the Council of Justice submitted by the Government. In its opening remarks, the State Secretary stressed that this is an important law which aims to regulate the situation, competence and role of the Council of Justice as an important builder of the justice system. The main objectives pursued by the proposal for a law are: to safeguard the independence and independence of the judiciary and to ensure the quality of the work of the courts and judges, and to ensure respect for the public reputation of the judiciary. In the presentation of the Commission's opinion on national regulation, the representative of the Council of State also supported and announced that all the comments of the Council of State had been taken into account in the amendments of the coalition. Also, the President of the Court of Justice, Marko Novak, expressed the conviction that the draft law, which was drafted in cooperation with all key stakeholders, would contribute to improving the state of the judiciary and raising its reputation. In doing so, the President of the Supreme Court expressed the conviction that the proposed amendments strengthen the role of the Council of Justice and give him a special emphasis, particularly in the functioning of the judicial system as a whole. As an important fact, he highlighted the involvement of the professional public in the Council of Justice as an additional quality and an additional contribution to the successful functioning of the judiciary from the point of view of society as a whole. The Coalition Members highlighted the importance of the bill's proposal, which gives the Council the character of a system body that protects and strengthens confidence in the judiciary and, above all, strengthens the integrity of the judiciary and the independence of judges. The opposition Members, on the other hand, considered that Article 10 of the draft law, which sets out the composition of the Council of Justice and thus gives the possibility for members to be lawyers, and Article 16 of the opinion that the candidate list for members of the Council of Justice proposed by the President of the Republic should not necessarily exceed the number of candidates elected, as they see the possibility of a political impact of the ruling coalition on justice. The Committee has also considered the amendments, adopted most of them and included them in the amended bill before you today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u67	At its 27th meeting, the National Assembly held a general debate on the proposal for a law, and it is therefore not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and amendments tabled, to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 20. 4. 2017. I am putting to the debate Article 11 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u68	Thank you very much. It has been the custom so far, I hope that it will continue to do so, but in the first act we will say more about the law as such, not only about article 11. That's why I'm going to do it, but for a little while, because anyway, look, you've been rolling down whatever you've been rolling, about like you're out here on the asphalt to get laid, then that's what it is. You can't fix that now. In general, the following must be said. On several occasions I have expressed my joy in my performances that we will be given a law on the Council of Justice, because the Council of Justice is a constitutional category, the only one in this country that has no law since its independence. So we have an institution operating on the basis of the Constitution, but it has no legal basis. Now, this marriage ground kind of is, but you have to say something. This marriage ground is very similar to those workers here outside, before parliament, who first make 30 meters of asphalt and then 30 more, and we will get this road of Šubič's beautifully asphalted. It's the same here now; little from one marriage, little from another marriage little from the third marriage, superclerosis, and we got the law on the Council of Justice. That's how this story came about. If any way this law strengthens responsibility in a court of law, which is strictly necessary, then a person would say okay despite major shortcomings, at least one step forward is taken in terms of strengthening responsibility. It's not. We have also made amendments in this sense, which, of course, you will overrun – we also know that. And if I go now in order, look at the greatest absurdity – now the composition of the Council of Justice is already prescribed, at least the framework composition, but those judges, that is, those members of the Council of Justice coming from the so-called quota of the President of the Republic – see here you have made a typical political impact on justice and they are very happy that you have trampled them. Of course, they're very happy that they like it. Why? Because you're asking up to 10 candidates for 5 seats. So, it could be up to 10 candidates for five places. Why? To implement the Klemen Jaklič system, what else! In order to say, this is ours, this is beautiful red color, we're going to take that, and we're going to, and we're not going to, and we're not going to. You're gonna make a world of justice that's gonna be nice and red. I don't know why rape the President of the Republic by having up to 10 candidates for 5 seats! No reason, in my opinion. Look, if I'm going forward, honorary function, that's exactly the 11th article you put in the debate. We say that the function of a member of the Council of Justice is unprofessional. Okay, okay, it's unprofessional, it says it in the amendment, and you say it's honorable. Before you had something else that was not compatible with the work of the state authorities, you put it out now, but it's more or less normal – I don't know what kind of honor it would be. Do you think they'll go to Ljubljana with honor at their expense? Oh, come on! They're not going to Ljubljana on their own expenses, you're going to give them a diary! Don't say it's honorable; say it's unprofessional. That was probably a little nicer to hear. What I did — then I will stop by the other amendments, but still — what is disturbing. It's disturbing that you're working from the President of the Supreme Court and the Presidents of the Courts, actually, disabled bosses. Disability boss. And disabled bosses, why? Because you're transferring the classic functions of management to the Council of Justice. Thus, the Council of Justice has too many administrative functions that the Presidents do not have, at least in my opinion. I can't imagine how one factory's boss could be, but he doesn't have the right, he doesn't have the capacity to take disciplinary action — against workers, for example. I don't know how this is possible, what kind of boss you can be. It's the same as saying you can drive a bus, great, because you know it, but you can't drive a steering wheel. I can't imagine. Look, closed sessions. Why closed sessions of the Council of Justice? Yeah, so you can sneak around, that's all. Let the sessions be public – if you have nothing to hide, then you do it publicly. After all, we are in Parliament, the ones we perform in front of the cameras, and we can be evaluated by citizens at any moment. I don't know why these gentlemen have to shut down so the public can't come. That's not right. Well, it's 45th. Now, if Mr. Klemenčič and I had reverse roles, he'd be here, and I'd be there, then I'd be screaming like you know, how? [[...]] I think he'd walk on the ceiling. And I'd say the heads will fly. That's the way it is. Why? The Minister is the initiator of disciplinary procedures. Isn't that nice?Oh, my God! If our roles were to be replaced now, I'd be screaming like hell against it. Yeah, that's right! That's what we have in marriage. In particular, strengthening responsibility is disruptive. I'll be in touch, now I've said a few things in general. In the case of a specific amendment which you have put to the debate, Article 11, in fact, the function of a member of the Council of Justice shall be performed in a non-professional manner. Okay, we also have this written in many other laws, and we all know that this does not mean for nothing, because at least what it is, they get some travel expenses and so on, not to write "in honor". I think it is "unprofessional" more precisely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u69	The Minister for Justice has the floor, Mr Klemenčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u70	Thank you very much. I will briefly respond to the concerns or statements of Member Gorenak. As I have already said in the introductory address, the fact is, of course, that a large part of the articles are copied from the current regime, because the Council of Justice has for more than two decades been governed by the Constitution and lived by partial laws, in particular by the provisions of the Law on Courts and the Law on Judicial Service. However, it is not just a glue to some existing arrangements or, as you said, a laying on asphalt or concrete, or whatever outside; it is 30 meters, now 30 meters, but it has some important news. Perhaps later, even though some or some of them were mentioned in the opening act. But I have to respond to a few things, which I believe is, I don't know why, but they are actually legal and actually wrong – what you said, Dr. Gorenak. Firstly, the composition is supposed to have a political impact, why for 5 candidates, 10 and so on. Look, if you suggest otherwise, you could say again that then you just press the keys, you don't have the right to choose and so on, but under the line, under the line. This is the current arrangement. This is the order from the beginning of the Council of Justice. Over 20 years, this provision in the Law on Courts or in the Law on Judicial Service is such that the President of the Republic proposes more. We didn't change that because it's a leaky system. And you impress the government and the coalition to introduce some new method of political recruitment into the Council of Justice. It just doesn't hold. Next thing you know, you said the minister proposed, that's a horror, the minister could propose a disciplinary procedure. Dear Dr. Gorenak, it's already in the current law. This is already the case in the current law, and so is in the laws that your coalition and your government have adopted with regard to other judicial authorities, which is logical. The Ministry of Justice has certain supervisory powers over the court and may be one or one of the candidates for disciplinary proceedings, but it is not, of course, a decision-maker in these proceedings, it is called the division of power. The Council of Justice does not regulate the administrative powers and functions of the Presidents of the Courts, it does not regulate them, it is the substance of the Law on Courts and it is still coming; but even now, the Presidents of the Courts have many administrative levers, through the annual schedules of work and so on, which are not the substance of the law before us. And yet, I understand you and it is legitimate to say that this law is not a strong enough step forward towards accountability, of course I have not heard any proposal to strengthen this step, but that it remains within the constitutional framework, but we cannot say that this proposal is not a step taken, both in terms of transparency in the functioning of the Council of Justice and in terms of the transfer of disciplinary responsibility. This is a mega-Romanian step, whether you admit it or not, or, I hope, at least partially admit it, that for the first time, purely from the judiciary, disciplinary responsibility is transferred to a body that is not just a court of law. Of course, it must have the majority of judges, as it does in each disciplinary body, but sometimes even the absolute majority, or all the representatives from the designated government, ministry, administrative authorities and so on. And the last thing you said was that you'd jump to the ceiling if you were transparent or public no, you wouldn't! [[…]] Do you know why not? I was also in principle inclined to have open sessions of the Council of Justice until, for the first time, we gave a comparative look, and for the second time, what the Council of Justice is doing, for the third time, we also attended a number of meetings of the Council of Justice. Except in Bosnia and Herzegovina and partly in Romania, the meetings of the Council of Justice are not open because you cannot compare the work of the Council of Justice with that of Members. Just as there are no open sessions, for example, of the Official Council, which is in some way to forgive me, let the Council of Justice forgive me, for, of course, it is a second branch of power, but it has very similar tasks in terms of staffing. It never occurred to anyone that the meetings of the Official Council, for example, would be open to the public as such. The work of the Government, for example, was not fully open in this part under any government, but we have significantly strengthened the transparency of the work by allowing the meetings to be recorded and then by means of the Law on Access to Public Information everyone gets this information, of course properly edited where personal data are concerned. Once again; here I agree, there is no revolution, because it is not possible to do so, but it is not appropriate to do so, but we are convinced that it is an important step forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u71	Mr. Jan Škoberne has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! It goes, clearly, for one of the more important laws, because it deals with one of the key issues we have in the past, and I believe we will also have more to do in the future in the National Assembly, as well as in the public at large; and that is, when we draw the line, the appointment of judges and judges. This is according to this law, which is before us, including the question of the appropriateness of control, efficiency, quality of work and, of course, of what is not insignificant, potential mistakes, intentional or unintentional that are happening here. It is crucial in this law that, in the context of the introductory debate, we put into place the fact that it is essential to seek a balance between the three branches of government and that we must follow the constitutional line here. In many ways, I can understand the thought of the opposition, Mr Gorenak in particular, because in most basic thesis, of course, I can agree. We can agree that there must be and there is a tendency for the work of the Council of Justice to go from hermetically closed to as much openness as possible to the highest degree of transparency. This was not least said on the Committee itself by the President of the Supreme Court, who clearly expressed the expectation that the openness of action within the border, which, of course, is not only this one, but also other laws allow, which also allows at the end of the day, the division of power, as we know, to be implemented. That is why we have also tried to go against this idea on the Committee itself, that they are open in principle to the Court of Justice, but that, when it comes to the question of the decision-making of rights, they may be closed, or that the Council of Justice may, in accordance with its Rules of Procedure, when it considers that this is necessary, closes them, in the fact that they still have to be recorded, that they can still be subject to the public information requirement. And it is not irrelevant that in the new law the jurisdiction of disciplinary proceedings from the Supreme Court is transferred to the Council of Justice. Here and thus we save one of the main features of civil society work, as well as the political public, that a system is established in the Republic of Slovenia, where at least in the field of justice we hold the position that crows cannot and will not turn their eyes out. If this authority was solely on the part of the Supreme Court, today or we will, if the law is adopted and the law is confirmed – I suppose that – at least in part we are extending, we are transferring it to the Council of Justice, which is open, has external associates, and in this way, I believe, we are strengthening both democraticism and commitment to responsibility, to self-evaluation of the judiciary as such. The National Assembly will, of course, have the opportunity, through a report which will be required to be submitted to the Council of Justice each year, to take an appropriate look at the work in order to say, to take advantage of its supervisory function, which it has under the Constitution, and that is not irrelevant. I believe this will be one of the more turbulent meetings of the Justice Committee. I believe that there will probably be a desire at some point to close down, to clear up all possible issues at a closed meeting. Above all, I think that an important step has been taken to ensure transparency, which will have a significant impact, I believe, also on raising the reputation of the judiciary among people. Here we cannot be blinded, the judiciary in the Republic of Slovenia as a virtue, but let me not be offended, this moment has no reputation as it would have deserved, or there is no reputation that would have been necessary, so that everyone can say that the State is properly executing and providing a function, if you want to at the end of the day, even the appearance of impartiality and in some way some self-reliance of the judiciary to judge only facts but not who stands on the other hand and to whom these facts are presented. In marriage alone, although some of the solutions can also – for example, in the article currently open, in the debate – we can exchange views, I see a positive shift. I believe it's worth opening. If we are talking about the issue of honour or the non-professional management of the function, I can agree with Dr. Gorenak, and perhaps the reflection is entirely in place, today the debate is intended, it is a difficult work being done by members and members of this Council, and it will be even more difficult once this law is passed. And, of course, expecting it to be an afternoon hobby is perhaps too much. I believe that even through the debate before us – I suppose it will not be just me and Mr Gorenak – that it will crystallize whether we can replace "honourfully" in this case with "unprofessional" and whether this may be more appropriate from the point of view of those who will have to do their work in the best faith and their ability. As has already been said, it is one of the most important institutions and, in fact, the adoption of this law is the first step, the first serious step in opening a debate on how we appoint judges and judges in this state and whether it is really appropriate to do so, as we do today, when in some ways the National Assembly has the function of the electorate, while at the same time it often insults us and imitates the right to know who we are and why we are naming. Here comes the trend between the judiciary and the legislative branch of authorities, usually interferes with any comments yet enforceable, and here is a reflection on how we will choose judges and judges, of course always in the evolutionary context, on the table. So much for the introduction and I look forward to further discussions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u74	Thank you very much. I am pleased by the debate you had, in particular, about Article 11. But I think it's unprofessional to perform a function but you'll see, when you vote it will be like the one out there that is rolling asphalt. [[…]] But let's just leave it. The public works. Look at this situation now. The minister says only Romania, Bosnia, and I don't know who else has this public. The President of the Supreme Court held a public meeting. You took a few minutes off in the coalition, and you fixed that article a little bit better. Although, as you know, we also talked about this, I expected you to make an amendment on this and that this article would be really improved and better done than it could have been done in ten minutes during the Committee's break. That's one thing. It is clear to me that the appointment of judges in the National Assembly is the remainder of past times, for it is. But the judiciary is the same as it was before 1990. That's the problem. Therefore, when the judiciary, like in Germany, Austria, Italy, I think that this national assembly must get rid of or renounce the right to appoint judges as soon as possible. As long as the judiciary does what they do, and I wouldn't let this function go, I wouldn't let it go, even though it's not the subject of this, at least of this law that we're talking about right now. But look, before the minister said this, we have a problem in the constitution. [[…]] I don't know, don't you know that we have a constitutional problem? That we have a lawyer in the Council of Justice. That's unacceptable to me. I think that if this coalition, instead of that drinking water that you've been celebrating so much out there, were to fix this article of the Constitution, which says that a lawyer could be a member of the Council of Justice, it could be much better. The lawyer's a client in the process. But the lawyer is against each other, and the judge is independent. And now we have a lawyer in the Council of Justice! You know exactly what happened — and you know who I'm talking about — when a member of the Council of Justice said after the main hearing to the judge: “I will see you in the Council of Justice.” And what happened? They saw each other, and the president of the court became a judge. She's not president of the court anymore. In my opinion, this is a very bad story if a lawyer can become a member of the Council of Justice. Then let him become a prosecutor until at least 1 : 1. These are the real problems of this. And the minister was talking you said it was nice to go disciplinary procedures out. [[…]] I don't know if. I don't see a step in plus here. Why? Because disciplinary procedures could also stay where they are, and I would – now I will say very domestically – give Duck to the boss. Yes! Yeah, why not? Why not? I'm not gonna say myself because I'm retired. Yeah, well, that would be independent, but you know. Now this went to the Council of Justice, and the members of the Council of Justice will — what? And the judges are their professors! That's how the Council of Justice will be. So, there'll be crows again in short, I don't see in disciplinary procedures that you've taken a step forward. [[…]] I don't think so. The Minister spoke earlier about this transparency and strengthening accountability in the judiciary. Yes, Minister, you have the perfect opportunity to tell the coalition to support article 23 in our amendment! That's why I'm gonna read it. What do we propose in this article? We propose that the Council of Justice monitors, notes, analyses and analyses violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms in judicial proceedings, as adopted by a half-year report on possible abuses in justice, which, by 30 June of the current year or 31 December, informs the National Assembly. And, of course, she keeps a record and puts it on the Internet. This is a strengthening of responsibility. I don't know why we shouldn't accept that. I think we should take this, because then they'd be a little scared. Any judge who will judge in some proceedings today most say in the first degree What does he say? [[...]] Ah, well, if I'm past the shot, they'll fix it at step two. And then they shoot right through there, and they say, oh, it's the Supreme Court. But now this shot would pass at the first stage after this amendment came online and it would say that Judge Janez Novak violated human rights in a lawsuit against [[…]] And I'm going to be at this point -- I don't know if it totally belongs to this point, but I'm going to be two sentences on the next topic. Just two items. Maybe I'll pass, Vice President, but only two sentences. Do you remember in 2010 when we were in this house occupied by the police? And they took Jelinčič and one minister from SD. Do you remember that story? Of course it is. Look, these people would be on some internet today to violate human rights both for Mr. Pogačnik and for Jelinčič. Yeah, that would be a step further. Why? Because they were forgiven for any wrongdoing, they were then considered criminals. This would be a step further and it would appear that this amendment was probably received. I have now held a debate on Article 23, Mr Vice-President, so that I will not make a call at 23. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Goran Klemenčič, Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u76	Thank you. For a little while. We sincerely believe that or that is in some way confirmed by the legal nomotechnological profession. Performing a function unprofessionally or honorably in our legal system is interchangeable. By writing that the function is performed honorably, we did not want to exclude anything free of charge, so it has been so far, with laws where various important bodies are established and where people do not work professionally, and in the Council of Justice they cannot work professionally – we also have such judicial councils abroad, but then the constitutional basis for such a judicial world is completely different, such a judicial council also performs the tasks of the judiciary, often so-called great judicial councils, and there are few of them, and there are also few in Europe, but here we cannot interfere with the constitution. In other words: if it says "honorable", as other laws in the Republic of Slovenia provide, it means essentially unprofessionally with possible, we will say, an additional honorary foreshadow, but of course this is not a free function, but the sessions are not high, but they are not so small and are prescribed by the Rules of Procedure. That's the first thing. With regard to lawyers, I admit, Dr. Gorenak, when you pointed out in the general debate that there may be a problem because I think we have a constitutional problem here. [[…]] Although I do not know whether it is a problem or not, it is also in most other systems, which would be a problem, but it would be if the Constitution were interpreted in a way that it should always be a member of the Council of Justice. We have checked the previous compositions of the Council of Justice, and we have found that practice has evolved in Slovenia under the various Presidents of the Republics, that this is not the case. We also had court councils without a lawyer, we had a court of law with two lawyers. This depends on what comes at the table and what is, in fact, who applies and how Parliament votes. That's why we didn't make that change. Otherwise, I assure you that, in principle, I agree with you that this must by no means be a guaranteed position for lawyers, but they are one of those already defined by the Constitution as possible members. As far as the next amendment or any other amendment is concerned, I believe that I will not go beyond that, I believe that we will do more for transparency and responsibility when we begin to publish all the judgments, and I believe that we will come to that because this is what we are doing intensively and because it is the order prescribed by 1. 1st of this year, we will also say, legalized or prescribed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to talk about Article 11? Here you go, Mrs. Anya Bah Gibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Chairman. As usual, when we speak for the first time, we can also have a broader debate. Some do this under Article 1 or, for the first time, when we talk about articles, I will do it this time because I am now registered for the first time. Of course, the Slovenian Democratic Party has already pointed out on the parental committee as well as today those key things that we think are most important when we talk about this marriage, is called the Law on the Council of Justice. The Law of the Council of Justice is really something to him. [[…]] And anyway, it's the right thing to do. But now, respectable ones, we need to ask ourselves why this law is; so that we have a law on paper that, of course, has positive solutions in some parts as well, or that will be fulfilled or otherwise stated, who will carry it out. We have proposed to Article 11 that the function of a member of the Council of Justice be unprofessional. This seems important to us because the fact is that it is important that those who come from different fields of expertise, because we wanted them to be members, that they continue to do their professional work and here they are like some added value. But more than article 11 is certainly an important article 23. Here is the essence of what the Council of Justice should represent. It is said that we know who in these courts judges in what way and whether they violate fundamental human rights. We today and even under this law will not have a list of human rights violators. What kind of justice is that? We have a system where we don't know what the judges are doing. And when they do, we don't know. Article 23 speaks of this! I can write everything right here on paper and define it, but look, it's essential, paragraph 23. Why? I'll tell you now. Because we have a 49th Article, which is not currently open – the Ethics and Integrity Commission. Listen to what this Commission is supposed to do: monitor the principled opinions on conduct that violates the Code of Judicial Ethics; make recommendations on compliance with the rules of judicial ethics, integrity in accordance with the Code of Judicial Ethics; provide guidelines on judicial ethics and integrity in accordance with judicial ethics; and the Commission is represented before other national authorities and the public by the President elected by the members of the Commission for a period of two years with the possibility of repetition. Yeah, look, come on! It's about who's on this committee. That sounds good on paper. That's all Mrs. Betto's running. The one who violates this code. And now she will find out who in this country or who among the judges is or is a violation of ethics and morals, and after the final stage, integrity is also involved here. Now she's going to represent this as president! And who do we make fun of? Someone is at the top of the Ethics and Integrity Commission, which has burned before the world. They flushed him out because they knew what he was doing in Slovenia. You know, we can also write in here that our Slovenian chickens will start laying golden eggs, but they won't, because the chicken is rotten and the rotten eggs come out. But this is very rude and unfair to those who, in this system, in the judicial system, actually invest all their energy, all their knowledge, a lot of denial. They also have difficult moments in this work and they do it well, but look, they're in the same package now, because we don't know who's violating human rights at all. This is a burdensome element for the entire judiciary or the judicial sphere. They're all in the same basket! We don't know who they are, because, of course, you don't want to enter into the law to keep these records and that these records, respected, would be public that when people come before the time of justice, they will know what that deadline did in the past in their work. How many times has she violated human rights, how many procedures are obsolete, what are these procedures? But you don't want it. Article 25 We also wanted this to be published on the website, all acts and lists of judges who are human rights violators and still perform this function, because I personally do not think they should be in this system at all. Imagine, or on the other hand, look at the worker in production. [[…]] He's going to make a mistake in the work process and he's either going to stop the process or he's going to be a whole shipment away. What do you think's gonna happen to this worker? Before the disciplinary procedure is completed, he will be on the road, working for 600 euros or 570, because then the company only has to add a difference to the minimum. It's a condition. But here we have officials, nowhere above them anyone – and we must not even know what these people are doing! Well, we're a banana republic, Minister! I know you're not listening to me, but these are the key things you should hear, not that you're talking. These are key things that you should hear and hear if you really want the justice system to come to life on some democratic foundation. I'm just here to look at a colleague who comes from a court of law. It's bad for me because she's in the same package. Yeah, I'm sorry. In the same package. It's probably only possible that it's only going through the system that crows don't turn their eyes off, but I also know some judges who don't care that they're in this package, especially the younger generation. If asked, I would be happy to say that all their judgments and decisions and everything they have done have been made public. But we need to take care of those who are the problem and who actually have the crumbs of this system, because the biggest hole in the so-called transition – of course all others, the place of state property and so on – is certainly that the transition in justice or in the judicial branch of government failed because it was not. The Supreme Chief, formerly the Judicial Branch of the Authority, was a human rights violator. He was hunting there, and I don't know what else made it possible for people to die. Well, stop it. Come in. The sittings of the Council of Justice shall be open to the public. This is where we win. Even the new President of the Supreme Court said that he had no problem with it, and the President of the Council of Justice said that he had no problem with it; but apparently, the coalition was having trouble opening those meetings to the public. Just look how it creaked then. Meetings of the Court of Justice shall be closed to the public when deciding on the rights, obligations and legal benefits of an individual. Get out of here! So they're all closed to the public, because there's everything in here. Then what else is open? But if they tell you which agenda item or agenda, they'll close the session immediately? They will say: "Dear ones, we are opening – I don't know – the seventh session of the Council of Justice, and then they will say that since we have this and this material, the session will be closed. You made a masseuse out of a proposal! You know, it's all coming back to the country like a boomerang. And it's coming back so that today we don't have one left to fill that bank hole in this country. Crime of the century! You'll see when we're gone, what they're going to say about these times where this country has sailed. Minister, however, you were the president of the KPK, you spoke at that time about transparency, about ethics, about morality, about politics being clean as the best drinking water. See for yourself what suggestions you're making. Is it that it's transparent, that it's ethical and open, that it's getting closer to the public? This is a farce, this marriage is a farce, and it's a terrible farce, and we're going to keep getting them on our heads. But it's in the best interest of all of you to hear it again today or yesterday that John Jansho is back on the hunt. You have to go to witches again, again, thirdly, fourthly, the pile has been on fire since the seclusion, because some people are sorry that it's happened, but here they're always on fire, they're always on fire. On the other hand, one has not been closed; even more, we have lawyers who earn almost a million euros in this account, and none of it. These are the results and this is the situation in our country in the field of justice. We also propose to add to this law that the Court of Justice ensure the transparency and openness of its activities and the protection of data of the individual whose rights, obligations or legal benefits are subject to consideration. It's about connection. That doesn't count with you either. There's nothing. In short, let me finish. You can write in this bill a lot of things. You have not written down what is crucial because you do not want it because you do not want an open court because you do not want a democratic judiciary, because it is in your best interest that some clearly violate human rights. Because if it wasn't for your benefit, then we'd all put it together on the most visible list in the country, on the most visible list, because it's a violation of the constitution and it's a third branch of power. A third branch of power — and it works in a closed state! We're all prisoners of their own. We're open here as an open book, we can be talked about, it's written, it's taken together for a lease, but what happens in the courtrooms, and how things end, but not. And we're back in the days before independence, when we have collective responsibility again. For when it comes to trial in the Senate, we will not know who voted in any way, who gave a separate opinion, if it is, and so on. We won't know that. They are all guilty, then the whole Senate is guilty, and although one of them may have voted and even said in a separate opinion very specifically, but then he is guilty. One such Senate was also tried by today's President of the Supreme Court. But we do not know what his decision was, and we can do him harm when we say that he violated human rights in his work. But you just can't convince me it's different because you don't. Unfortunately, everything in this country is sad and you're taking her somewhere once said who? [[…]] [[...]] Pahor? That there's a European train going at some speed towards Europe and development. You'll get the track across. Only the train will be back in reverse. And not reverse in that sense, because a train can drive in both directions, but reverse in time, in the past. It's sad! Of course, I cannot support such a bill. I can't do it! And I am surprised that anyone in this country will be able to do so, because if you support this law without amendments from the Slovenian Democratic Party, then there is no problem for you that the judicial branch violates human rights. This does not present a problem for you, although this is the basis of the problem in this country. For this judicial system is the only openness and transparency of solutions. A solution for all those young people who come into the system, for all those we've talked about the last time we've talked about them, while they're waiting for the internships, because we could learn something good. But the message is clear: in this country we judge as the elite says. Because you can violate human rights and nothing happens to you. You can destroy a man for 25, 27 years and nothing happens. Minister, now I understand why you're the Minister of Justice. When we have such bill proposals in our hands, then I know exactly why you were appointed to this function. Since you failed at KPK, you are now trying to find witches with some new laws, but I think you should look for them first in your immediate vicinity.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Jan Škoberne has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Although it seems to me that they are already in the introductory debate, but not the only ones, properly stressed, some things should not be answered and not be exceeded if I repeat them twice – even in the context of the debate that has just been held. Personally, I believe that all of us in the coalition want to have the most quality, transparent, open and, above all, fair justice; one that will not be subjected to any political, interesting, elitist, class or other influences; that the right afforded by the State will indeed be one that weighs solely and merely facts. That's what we do, with our actions and with what we're trying to do, so we can get to you as much as we can. If I had not personally wanted an open, modern – and I agree with Mr Gorenak – even updated in relation to the previous system of justice, I would probably not have taken the initiative of the Slovenian Youth Council to convene a meeting on traineeships; because I might have felt that some of the changes were necessary. I would not agree that we need more openness in the functioning of the Council of Justice, in the appointment of judges, in the evaluation, analysis and also in the criticism of their work. In any case, I do not agree with the fact that we are creating conditions where political power is known to the courts, either to the left or to the right, is placed on the pranger. I do not want to allow myself to impose such and different methods of political pressure on the behalf of better justice in fact quietly and under cover, but of course I do not see this coming because I believe that you have the best intentions. But what happens is that in some protests or expressions of opinion of a certain part of civil society, even the thinking — as it is called — is physically reminded that they do not want to hear their opinion there, nor is it the right step and way. And the call that went from my side to the introduction, which I think was clearly expressed not only at the last, but also at some previous meeting of the Justice Committee, is that we have to come to the opposite because we share the same goal. And that is transparent, effective, fair and democratic values based on justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Actually, my colleague Jan just kind of asked me to come by again. It's true, very positive, and I think we were all kind of united back then when it came to judicial traineeships. Is that right? We also discussed that it would make even more sense if the chairman of this meeting, together with the Education and Education Committee, had convened, and the fact is that we hope to take a step forward in this direction so that there will be no such waiting lines, but there are two systems that need to be put in place. But in answer to Mr. Skobernet. It's nice to call a meeting and make sure your young people really get an internship. But who's gonna teach them? Who will be their mentors? Their mentors will be the ones who violated human rights. That's what they're gonna learn! And they will learn that nothing happens in this state if you violate human rights. The most obvious point was that individuals operating within the judicial branch were then also publicly exposed. Why not? Is this a privilege only for Mr. Fish? He's the only one who can talk? Does this belong to maybe just one, first-class system? However, they must be second-rate and silent and must not come forward and must not say that the system is not working. I can't even agree here. That's, I think, the worst thing Mr. Shkobrne has ever done. The fact is, it's the right thing to hear from them. How could we ever get to our country, my dear? So everyone would be quiet? No! No! So it started to boil, to come, to bloom, to blossom and to become so rich that we became a country. I think the biggest mistake is thinking that those who work in the system can't say anything. Because then we take their election rights, passive and active. I mean, colleague Jan Škoberne, that the problem is bigger when someone goes into politics from the judiciary and then goes back there. That's the hard part. But not so he doesn't act fair, but he will carry the burden himself. For him it is a greater burden, for an individual. I claim it is. Because there will always be some questions, some points, and they will be able to do their work properly and in accordance with the law and the Constitution. So don't deal with those who say out loud what's wrong. Let's deal with those who don't want to change. And this is you, a respected coalition. You don't want any major changes to take place, the justice system to open up, too, as it were, at home. And that those rotten apples fall off and leave them to younger generations who have no difficulty learning and getting mentors to help them do their job well, to be of good quality and to be able to be proud of this country. Finally, they're officials, just like us. At the moment, our justice system is not proud of the state or of the pride of Europe; we are losing ourselves as on the current track; yet more, we are going so far as to accuse ourselves of suing ourselves before the European Court of Justice, for example, when we are talking about Roma issues. We sue ourselves, we have lawyers, we don't know how many times they've been to the Dobrak village, for example, or how many times they've been to Froggyak. These lawyers then defile this country in front of the European Union, even though this country does not have any basic information as to what this community is like. That's interesting, too, who these lawyers are. One name appears so many times in this country Thank you very much. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Can we close the debate? I conclude the debate on Article 11. We're moving on to paragraph 23. I am putting to the debate Article 23 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? No, thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 25 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 26 and the amendments of the SDS Group of Members and the amendments of SMC, Desus and SD. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 63 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Because no one wants to discuss I am concluding the debate in full. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 10th item of the agenda. I'm breaking the 9th point of the agenda. We're moving on to 10. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS ANOTHER DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL OF THE LEGISLATION ON THE STATE ADVICE, IN THE FRAMEWORK OF THE REPRESENTATIVE PROCEDURE The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Goran Klemenčič, Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u84	Mr Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The country and thus taxpayers are exposed to about two billion risks of compensation and payment to various domestic and foreign judicial authorities. We therefore need an effective representative of our property and other rights and interests before domestic and foreign judicial forums and arbitrations. It is not a problem that we have not reformed the State Defence for 20 years, the problem is that we have not reformed the functions mentioned above. This is not the case with the State Attorney's Office, although the latter has recently made a great effort to present this reform as a reform or abolition of the State Defence Office. It's about representing the country I mentioned earlier. Today, the state has neither good lawyers nor good lawyers. It has good individuals operating within the framework of the State's Attorney's Office. This is quite undeniable, but in general there is little legal defence and even less barrage in the defence. The reasons for this are systemic, are legal, are organisational and are also human resources, but not only human resources. As it is said, there are many good individuals in the State's Attorney's Office, and the system is next. The country's assets are represented by quasi-functional officials who are now professionally neutralized or fully linked to guidance, instructions from the Government, individual ministers and even individual public officials appointed for a certain period of time, directly by the Government, often politically to a comfortable position in the 55th pay grade, as are senior judges for 8 years. The system because of its two-dimensionality, we only have attorneys and assistant attorneys, and it doesn't know career advancement. The system has a lot of false solidarity and excuses and attempts to cover up bad representation in matters, but only in the last two years can we mention: a well-known example of Ormož Sugar Factory, and Infohit, where documentation was put in place and a delayed judgment of more than EUR 3 million of taxpayer money was issued. In the Pomgrad case, for example, where the defence attorney has moved the cap out of negligence in one compensation calculation and the state has therefore overpaid compensation of EUR 370,000. It's just something I've been saying over the last year, year and a half. The system for the search for internal responsibility for errors does not work. In the last 20 years, one disciplinary procedure has been carried out. And that at the time, according to the Minister’s household, that was really me — I won’t say anything. The external control system does not work or is not available. One attempt was during the time of Professor Dr. Sturm. He's the only one who tried to send supervisors to the U.S. Attorney's Office. It didn't work out, the rest of us didn't even try because there was no legal basis for it. The State's defence, as the central representative of the state's property interests, covers less than half the amount of exposure in our country in various disputes. From two billion after an analysis by the Ministry of Finance, only 710 million euros. In a disproportionate number, they deal with wealth issues, as shown in the annual reports. People in the 55th pay grade are engaged in land registrations, which they do in law offices as interns and in administrative units as younger professionals. The central representative of the state's assets does not participate or is excluded from important disputes before international courts and arbitrations – the Krško Nuclear Power Plant, arbitration in the Grassetto case and so on. Despite the declarant's taking and stressing the importance of representing the public interest, which has been justified by the state's defence attorneys in recent times. In 20 years, we can count one hand in the entire history of state defence, how many times have they filed an action in the public interest. At systemic level, we have an unregulated representation and are represented before the European Court of Human Rights and the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg, which is likely to cause us to lose more than we could possibly have. Therefore, the proposal for the Law on State Attorneys, which is before you today, represents a thorough overhaul of this institution. Not an institution of the State's defence, but institutions representing the public and property interests of the State and taxpayers, and to establish a new State's Attorney's Office of the Republic of Slovenia as a stand-alone public authority with its responsibility, effective conduct, flexibility and transparent conduct. Will this law establish a better representation of public interests when it enters into force? Certainly not on your own. It will, in my opinion, establish a very late, legislative and organisational framework for this to happen. A framework that, if not met, will be a liability if it does not happen, clear and obvious. Therefore, even at the final stage of the Government, with any surprise, a few amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party are supported in terms of reporting to the National Assembly within a certain period of time following the entry into force of this Act. In short, since business conditions have been met, I propose that a third consideration of the bill be carried out at the same meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Justice Committee as a parent working body. I give the floor to President Jan Škobernet to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! At its 33rd meeting, the Committee on Justice considered the draft Law on State Advocates and considered before the opening of the hearing the proposal of the SDS Group of Ambassadors in order to make a public presentation of the law in question, which was not adopted, and so we continued our consideration of the law at the same meeting. Minister Klemenčič said in his supplementary explanation that the proposal for a law represents a thorough overhaul of the function and tasks in the field of the protection of the assets and other interests of the Republic of Slovenia through legal representation and advice in judicial and other proceedings at home and abroad. The opposition Members opposed the proposed solutions, which were not in line with the State Advocates and received numerous warnings both from the Legislative and Legal Services and from the negative opinion of the Council of State. They also pointed out, among other things, the fundamental function of defence lawyers, namely to defend the state and not merely to follow guidelines, so they suggested that the status and independence of state defenders should not be affected. The Advocate General also said that the State’s defence is not a constitutional category, but that the legal basis for action must nevertheless change consistently with the legal order and existing practice. After the discussion, the Committee voted on the proposed amendments and on all the articles of the proposal together and on the law as proposed today, sent to the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Since the assembly held a general debate on the draft law at its 27th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to the debate on the Article and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 20 April 2017. I am putting to the debate Article 94 and the amendments of the SDS Group of Members and the amendments of SMC, DeSUS and SD. Anybody want to talk? Yeah, well, I'm still gonna ask for an application. Mag. Dušan Verbich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u88	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Dear Minister, Members and Members of Parliament, what a lovely greeting! I think I am allowed in this matter a little bit of introductory words, but then, as usual, even further to this issue, I am honored, as you have indicated in some way. Given the importance that is in some way not only in the professional sphere, but also in the media, this proposal to amend the law in some way is present, I think it is right. Does the judicial authority, in this case the current State Defence Office of the Republic of Slovenia, carry out its mission in a manner and to the extent to which we can safely say that it is satisfactory – if I am still a little malice and also say – to justify its existence or so-called cost aspect? An objective answer to this question, if I answer it myself, is very difficult, for it is not possible to understand the extent to which this judicial authority has been effective or successful for many years from the annual reports, if I speak a number of years. By the way, such a question or something like that, if I may say so, I would rightly ask for a number of public administrations. And my answer is certain that it is literally questionable for them to be effective and effective. But if I'm still in the dark today. After 25 years of operation of the Republic of Slovenia, I believe that it is finally time for certain changes to begin, especially in an area where it is still necessary to have the interest of the State, the taxpayers, in the first place. According to some unverified information, this moment we can talk about the fact that claims to the State through an authorised representative of the State are likely to be around EUR billion, but it must be immediately pointed out that in this amount there are not claims that have somehow already started and are to a lesser extent also already invested in the so-called addresses of deleted securities that have been in the process of recapitalisation of state-owned banks. I am therefore very much in favour of today's consideration of this law and of what is also related to the content. Why? Because I stand firm in the view that changes tend to generate things for the better. I say here the emphasis “for better”. As it is said, the law now in force in 2007, that is 10 years ago, was certainly adopted under different circumstances and conditions, of course when it existed. In the Republic of Slovenia, I believe that many things have changed in recent years, but unfortunately we can also see that many things have also gone to the detriment of taxpayers. And here I have a real question about the point of today's order, whether the judicial authority, now still the State's Attorney's Office, has sufficiently engaged and has protected the interests of the state in these periods. Of course, I have more in mind in all the so-called legal disputes and also in some other cases. Here I reiterate, I am thinking of efficiency and success in the welfare of the country. I can simply say once again that I have no answer to this question, because there has not been anything in the media from the so-called data, except what they have been reporting lately, and the Minister mentioned several cases in the introduction. But we don't know what's been going on for years. And what's driving me in some direction is that it's right that there's some critical thinking about these things and the need for change, that when I went a little bit back to looking at the State's annual reports, I just couldn't even get that kind of data. However, I will continue to allow myself a few words about this. However, I would point out because of the weight of the so-called media attention of this law, with which the media dealt specifically with the content and also with the minister. And I'm just gonna go through a rough checkup a little bit. With fire and a sword against state defenders: lawyers are concerned that they will become policy dependent, especially as the concept of the envisaged changes is not clear. Lawyers themselves are very clear, article Advocates: we are against hostile takeover. Furthermore, the Department of Defence now and never again – in such a form: how politically independent will state lawyers who move under the auspices of the Ministry of Justice be asked by lawyers. I could also list, as a number of such contributions have been recorded in the media. I'd still touch another one. The Advocate General was also very active at this time, including in the media. And only one address that is very enlightened in some way also for us who are now talking about this content. Address: This is the complete submission of state defence. I wouldn't be losing any special words here, but it's driving me to something in this part of the debate. And the question is, what are they designed to do and what is their function? Because we also need to refer to examples that are very obvious in the content of this law and amendments. Example. A lawyer in the private sphere and a public defender or a state attorney in the state sphere. And the question in itself is, what do they have in common? The fact is that they are both included in a group of judicial bodies, interesting. They shall act for the parties under their authority, which is also normal and also necessary. And what's very interesting should have the same goal, this goal is to do everything to win a legal dispute. This is an unwritten rule that is generally very hard to apply in the private sphere of lawyers. But I'm sure I'll allow myself to comment that it may not be clear for the attorneys. I believe that in a number of cases I can wrong someone, but from the review of the so-called annual reports, or otherwise, it is clear that this commitment, the approach to solving such matters is not equivalent to that of the so-called private sphere. How, though, is my personal view different? Lawyers themselves are certainly very intense in their initial phase in relation to their authorised clients and what is very interesting, especially with the customer from the beginning, is very clear on how to succeed in justice. If we look at the Office of Defence, the simple defence covers matters after the so-called case-law, which is usually by itself by the authorities of the state administration and when the state appears in a situation where it is in judicial or extrajudicial proceedings. And here I am convinced that there is a key difference between them, which is between a private and a state lawyer, in the motivation of an attorney for success in justice. Here I am also immediately referring to the position of the Minister, who says that such a matter should simply be put in this same similar context. Above all, it is crucial that a system be set up very clearly at the outset to succeed in justice. I am certainly also in this part of the position that further, regardless of pay grade or whatever happens, consideration should also be given to this motivational factor, which could be used in a very different way, to stimulate work in order for state lawyers or state lawyers, if I may say so, to succeed in justice. I think some levers should be prepared here, too. In this part, I would only touch on the opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service, because the Legislative and Legal Service – in particular, I have this in mind in view of the different discussions, either in the National Assembly or in the media, or the Executive Branch of the Authority may intervene in such an arrangement. The legislative and legal service has made it very clear: “The regulation of state defence as a system is in the field of discretion of the legislator, which means that it can prescribe a regulation which is considered to be the most appropriate.” As far as this is concerned, I must admit that I do not have any problems or reservations on my own, and in the same direction or in the fullest sense, I am in fact in the position that the executive branch of power is on the right track in the event of this change of law. Many of the words written and spoken were about the so-called comparison of orderliness in the countries to which we like to compare ourselves. And if I can say it like that, they're an example to us. Above all, it is a matter of whether the State's defence can be classified, purely systemic, under the executive branch of government at all. And this comparison is very interesting. The fact is that under the executive branch of the public administration, there is an administration which is more or less independent, independent or independent, in the following countries: France, Spain, Germany, Austria, the Netherlands. Interesting. There's very little talk about it that I won't speak to the public as well. From this point of view, it is very interesting that the countries of the so-called Romani and German law have practical defences regulated in the system of the executive branch of power. And if I close this part of the comparison with just one more piece, whether or not the employees in this institution can somehow come under the system of public servants. This comparison is also interesting, namely that the position of public officials, those who perform the function of justice, is known and regulated in Austria, Spain, France, Germany and even far north, which is often a model for us in Sweden. This means that in such debates it is quite difficult to accept some arguments, that we are inventing something and want some changes, which, I can say a little in legal language, do not drink water. If we look at these comparisons, there must be some proposed changes to the law itself. In the introduction, I have already mentioned the effectiveness and effectiveness of the State Defence Institute. I have to admit that I simply took over the 2003 Annual State Defence Report and the 2015 Annual Report because I wanted to get some impression and insight into what is happening during this period or if you are comparing the border issue – whether there is a possible comparison of some effectiveness that belongs to employees and the like. I must admit that the 2003 annual report even impressed me in one part, even though we know that there were completely different circumstances at the time, but that the judicial process was clearly written down by what I think the taxpayers and also the executive branch of the authorities and the legislative interest. They recorded that in 2003 the Republic of Slovenia was successful in judicial proceedings with its claims of 62.17% and that the victims with their State against 30.93%. Interestingly, this kind of data from later annual reports, not to speak in 2015, simply cannot be understood, because in recent years the annual reports of the State Attorney's Office are very beautiful, very good for reading, as well as a lot of data, but some structured, simple comparison of such data – you cannot get them. I am pleased that the authorities of the state administration, as well as the institutes, are summarizing the annual reports following the successful annual reports of companies, but it is interesting that the financial outcome, the results of efficiency and performance are also essential in the annual reports of companies. However, in a specific case, this is not the case, since, compared to the previous year, these are some data that can make a good impression, but it is not relevant what is the effectiveness of employees. In this part, I must admit that I was somewhat surprised by the comparison in 2003 with 2015. What is interesting in some way, as far as these annual reports are concerned, also adopted by the National Assembly, is that in 2003 the report was drawn up on only 59 pages with more useful data on the visibility of some efficiency, and in 2015, on 152 pages, there is an abundance of information and data, even on specific cases, which is generally the right thing to face them, but on such a matter as I have mentioned, efficiency and effectiveness, there are fewer words. Because I will slowly complete this part — why am I in favor of such a change? As already mentioned in the report, the Government in the field of defence nevertheless wanted some data, analyses from the past of operations. It is interesting to note that the Ministry of Justice has so far overseen the conduct of matters solely for the defence administration, including, above all, the regular performance of the tasks of the State Defence Office. More worrying or even more meaningful intervention in such a case is to supervise the defence administration, where it has been asked what has been happening in the years 2010 to 2015 with regard to the late judgments on the grounds of the inaction of the State defence, and the reply from the defence authorities is that this is to be attributed to the incorrect recording of the data in individual registers and the inaction of individual officials in relation to the cases themselves. So much for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Eva Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u90	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, Mr. Secretary! First of all, let me say that there will obviously be elections soon, not only because Janez Janša and the Slovenian Democratic Party are again profaning themselves, because it obviously shows us too well, but also obviously because the Minister has now decided to do something about the justice system, but unfortunately, Mr Minister, as in the previous law on the Council of Justice, also in this law, in our view, in the wrong direction, at least in some parts. Before these two laws, which are now in the legislative procedure, we have received some kind of cosmetic correction from you, serious judicial reform, which would be necessary, and you have by no means brought to the National Assembly. You will probably agree with me that the justice system is an exceptional skeleton system that is moving very slowly and that some thorough renovations and ventilation would be seriously needed. We did not take a crucial moment or step in 1991, and this is a lustration of the judicial system. I'm not going to talk about reform. I'm going to talk about the lustration of the justice system. If the lustration of the judicial system were then done, and the time was at that time, we certainly would not have had such a day - to - day test of the rule of law and respect for human rights. Mr Minister, I hope that you will still come back to the debate and join us, and that you will then also answer the questions that we have prepared for you. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we keep saying that the justice system needs to be made more transparent, and in particular that in the judicial system, prosecutors and judges must be held accountable for the errors that arise in the proceedings. So far, unfortunately, virtually no one has answered. If we look at the prosecution, let's say this happened, with severe sanctions, only in the case of the prosecutor, Dragica Kotnik, who, according to my information, is an extremely good, high-quality prosecutor. But why did the sanctions happen, four years of suspension? Especially because she wanted to get to the bottom of the Baricevic affair. So, political connotation. Political connotation. I don't know another prosecutor in this country who'd been suspended for four years because he wanted to do his job responsibly. And that's the problem with this place. Also with the judges. We have a special article in the Judicial Service Act, but I think it might have been used once. Once used! With regard to sanctions to be imposed on certain judges. That's irresponsible! And every day we re-increase judges, even though we have significantly more than the rest of the European Union. It doesn't bring transparency, we've seen it before. Nor does it bring about the fact that procedures run faster. I guess not. Because despite the Lukend project and despite some of the steps that have been taken, we are still too late to solve the judicial files. I said earlier that it would be necessary in the justice system to perform lustrations or at least to pass some lustration laws. Why am I saying this? Especially because this needs to be seen in a broader context. Hungary, for example, has done lustration procedures, the Czech Republic has done the same as the Baltic States, Slovenia has not been able to do these steps. I'm not going to speculate now why not, but if we didn't do it then we have to realize today that these steps will have to be taken today. And I personally expect that from the current Minister of Justice. We are the only amendment we had on this subject – I think it was tabled by then, then Member Starman, in the 1990s, was the so-called Udbov amendment. But this one wasn't accepted, it was rejected. He was proposed, but he wasn't accepted. He was rejected. In short, this is a prerequisite for making the justice system more transparent and transparent. Now allow me, Mr President, to lean on the law on state lawyers that we have before us today. The fact is that, at this point, the concept of the State's defence is systematically changing, and this concept is opposed, for the first time, by attorneys themselves – here I will ask the first question to Mr Minister, who is unfortunately not when we consider his law, but I am interested, Mr Minister, if you can give me the name of at least one lawyer who agrees with such conceptual regulation of this law. Not only do lawyers oppose this law, as it is conceived here, but the State Council also opposes this law, and it does not oppose this law with many comments, but it warns that they must be resolved in another way, including the Legislative and Legal Service. So if we're talking about the law on state law, we can say that if we look at it gravely, the institution is being renewed, which will become some kind of special state authority, and it will be in some way – let's all pay attention here – directly subordinated to the Minister of Justice. And here's another question for you, Mr. Secretary. I would like to know how you will ensure, in the way you have conceived this law, the necessary and necessary autonomy, or autonomy, of the State's Attorney's Office or of the Attorney General's Office. And secondly, I do not personally imagine – and this was also seen in the conversation that we had with the attorneys when they came to tell us where they saw the problems of this law – some of the necessary authority that every lawyer must have in order to have in a new form is said to be an ordinary public servant and not more than an official. Personally, I think it is a function in this case that is a true lawyer, the one that means to advocates in the negotiations a tool in their work. It is said that the function is one that ensures, inter alia, this external and internal authority, which is essential in order to ensure that things are successfully, qualityly and well carried out in representation in procedures. Mr Minister, the powers of the Attorney General's Office, at least that's what the Advocates themselves say – and I am not their lawyer here, far from that, but I think it is right that they are, in some way, also heard in the light of the fact that you have refused to make public representations of opinions, which you do as you do through the current line in the coalition, except in those public presentations of the opinions you are proposing, but have said themselves – that it is not possible for the Ombudsman to exercise powers through the public service system. What does that mean? This means that now, as I mentioned earlier, attorneys become purely ordinary civil servants under this law, and here it is necessary to know that they do not have any additional or specific powers under this function as a public official. I believe that the public interest in the proceedings can protect the public defender significantly better than the official and not as a public official, and this is one of the key issues raised by the defence attorneys themselves. So, how to ensure the actual authority of the defence attorney in the proceedings, if he is now just an ordinary public servant. Secondly, how to ensure the autonomy and autonomy of the defence, if I cariculate a little bit, in some way directly under the Minister of Justice. I mentioned earlier that in the Slovenian Democratic Party we also requested a public presentation of the opinions, we have raised very specific questions, I think 18 questions addressed to the Minister. You know that the public presentation of opinions is the form where the professional public, the interested public can fully open the issues that concern them, but unfortunately, the coalition, once again, has decided not to support these public presentations. Personally, I do not think that such behaviour on the part of the coalition is responsible because you do not allow a debate because you are afraid of what someone will say is known for another time, not for this. But I think we're in some kind of democracy, maybe more virtually, but we are. So I expect you to answer my questions first, Mr Minister, and that you will also, in some way, reconsider this, given that you are not supported by both the Advocates and the Legislative and Legal Service and the Council of State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Goran Klemenčič, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Member of the Commission, first of all, as regards the professional support or debate that took place in the preparation of this law. In my mandate, this law is one of the more coordinated laws in the sense that no law has so many times tried to find common ground, and my colleagues or professional colleagues at the Ministry of Justice can say that it is rare for a law that has touched truly independent branches of the judiciary, such as the judiciary and partly the prosecution – that there has been less coordination. Two years, a good two years of preparation, a very detailed functional analysis, a comparative legal analysis, 15 times, 15 times we met with the State Attorney's Office. On 15 occasions, we met with the State Attorney's Office at the professional level, many times I was present, including the secretary of state, even the whole day's dedication, because we tried to draw closer to each other's views. In the end — and I will go to this first — at the end when you say that the state’s attorneys do not support the law. Thus, the Special Working Group in the State Defence Office, which was already authorised by the former Advocate General, does not support the law. The State Attorney's Office, including the Attorney-General's Attorney-General, has also declared a media statement – unfortunately, I have to say, and I have said that on the committee, so I am not talking behind his back – also a lot of lies and deceptions about the law itself. I would like to say, however, that although the State's Attorney's Office has in a somewhat unusual way submitted its amendments to the law to the Committee on Justice. Only five amendments have been tabled, from which it can be concluded that it agrees with the substantive part of the law. All of these amendments, which they submitted, related to two things, would like to continue as officials and would like to work less. And we want to do less because they protested against it. Of course, we cannot agree with that. That's the first thing. The other thing is, the Law-Legal Service, I don't know if you were on the committee to check on, but she specifically said that with the amendments and with further coordination we have taken into account all their fundamental concerns, so to speak. The opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service was not already destructive for the law, as no anti-constitutional solution was exposed anywhere and so on. But legal voids have been exposed, and again I apologize for being silent, but I only count on it because I answer you, do you want to check anything else? [[…]] It can also, but the opinion of the Legislature on the committee itself through the amendments tabled by the coalition was positive in the end until the law. It has been repeatedly used that the entire profession opposes the law and these solutions in the law. It just doesn't hold. The Council of Justice has given a written opinion that it has no comments on the law. The Supreme Court has given a written opinion that there are no comments on the law. The Court of Justice held that it did not have any comments on the law. In interdepartmental coordination, the State Prosecutor's Office has highlighted one minority in the law itself. The broader legal profession, Dr Pirnat, which has repeatedly been used as an argument against the whole law since he was present at several public consultations on this issue, pointed out that it was against the new State's defence authority to be part of the Ministry. It's not what it is. We have listened to the opinion of the profession and, unlike many Western countries, where it is either a government service or a body within the Ministry of Justice or the Ministry of Finance, maintained an independent and independent body and even strengthened it in certain parts in relation to the current judiciary. Of course, we also gave him additional responsibilities. And in the final stage, Professor Kavčič also used the argument to defend the position that officials must necessarily be officials, which he personally claimed was not true. That's the first thing. He does not claim that most of the profession opposed the law. However, the majority or at least those exposed state defenders who have volunteered to do so are opposed. I understand them. It is nice to be in a favourable service in the 55th grade, without any serious responsibility. Once again, I stress that we also have state defenders who perform difficult, difficult tasks and who are good. Unfortunately, the system in which they operate and many of them do not meet this criterion. Next. You said that we would ensure the independence and independence of the new state's attorney, and then you said, if you caricate, "which, if I caricature, will now fall directly under the Ministry of Justice." Your Honour, you have a very large number of caricatures to come to such a conclusion. You have to do a lot of caricatures. Why? Because it is a law – it specifically states that it is an independent body, which is a self-sustaining budgetary user [[advertising from the hall]] No, you said he'd be directly under the Ministry of Justice. Can I finish? The law has a number of guardians, so powerful – because in the hope of reaching a greater consensus, we have put them in — that they are larger even than some guardians in relation to the legal powers of the ministry or the government in relation to the State Prosecutor's Office or the court. The independent State authority shall not be a body in the composition or internal organisational unit of the Ministry or Government. And today, any state defender representing the Republic of Slovenia before a court or any other body shall be bound by the instructions of the competent authority representing it. On instructions he can't get through. He is a quasi-functional in this sense, which every eight years after he has to reclassified to the Government, to any government. By becoming public servants – I don't know why public servants are viewed with such essentially almost repulsive, if they are now less – they will be employed for an indefinite period of time and the law gives them additional guards in terms of their functional autonomy and autonomy in general in relation to the executive branch of government, guards that are larger or at least comparable to other supervisory authorities that also act autonomously. [[…]] We can talk about inspection services, regulators and other supervisory authorities. The argument that I know that it is repeated by state lawyers that if you are not an official, you cannot represent the country – I don't know, I still don't know how and why we are so special in Slovenia, because officials elsewhere in Europe are not state lawyers or state lawyers. They are in Bosnia and Herzegovina because they are part of the prosecution. Otherwise, there's nowhere else to go. Apparently, they can't work with us if they're not officers. It is interesting, however, that the state can operate in those billions and 200 exposed cases that do not fall within the scope of the dispute, or that arbitration that does not fall within the scope of the State's Attorney's Office must, for example, be defended before the Administrative Court by public servants or by legal offices, which we sometimes hire in a non-transparent manner, now this law solves it because it will go through the Attorney-General's Attorney-General's Office. So, actually this position is a little bit I have to say that after all this time I still don't understand it. [[…]] Today, too, there are no professional filters for the appointment of state defenders, and it is known that in the past few governments have resisted this temptation to avoid their own personnel, even highly exposed political personnel, so as not to appoint a few other lawyers or lawyers at the last government meeting after the elections or before the end of the term. And that's what's been going on. As it is said, few governments have resisted this temptation. Well, the law establishes professional filters for the appointment of state lawyers, and now, as public servants, it gives them more autonomy because they enter the service relationship for an indefinite period of time, into a career system where you have trainees, candidates, state lawyers, senior state attorneys. In order to appoint a senior state attorney or a general state lawyer and his deputy, who will be officials in order to be able to protect his own body, which will be independent and autonomous and which will negotiate for the budget itself, by the way, a special opinion, a positive opinion from the Commission on the assessment of the eligibility of candidates, which consists of a series of independent experts in which the representatives of the Council of Justice of the State of Justice are involved, is necessary. These are steps in the right direction. We can't talk here. I mean, you can't compare a system where the government can name anyone, so to speak, with a system where you need a competitive system, public calls, an independent opinion of the expert commission and essentially a career system within. So much for now. If you have any further questions, I'd be happy to answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss article 94, the amendments? Mrs. Anya Bah Žibert, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. I'll start from the beginning, and I'll remember your position again, Minister, when you were head of the KPK. At that time, you constantly saw the government of Janez Janša adopting laws in an untransparent way, changing laws in a fast process, and so forth, even though it was in the government of Janez Janša that the system of adoption of laws was completely different. Practically every material came to the National Assembly earlier and presented itself to the parliamentary groups. I've done it before. Even in this way, there has been one, if only possible, broader coordinated act. That's why this government was so effective, and that's why it saved things at the time or the country from collapse. Also so that we can talk today about economic growth that is not the fruit of this government. And even if you keep turning like that, you know exactly how it isn't. Look, we've proposed a public presentation of our opinions, and you've rejected it. You said I met with the attorneys 15 times. Yes, of course, because we could have met 30 times, but when you prepared the final act, there were no more conversations. What helps a man meet 15 times if he doesn't know the final form? But when the final form and, of course, the great rebellion took place, then your interest in coordination disappeared completely. So you were wasting your time, wasting your time with 15 meetings, throwing it out the window. Because they wanted a meeting after the matter was ready, and unfortunately the coalition refused to listen to it even on the committee when there was hope that this presentation of public opinions would come. I really don't understand why not. Now we are running the final round of this mandate with our head through the wall, the minister has now prepared, practically at the conclusion of the mandate, a proposal and, of course, this one must go through the wall with his head now, “no more time, no more time, no more, the state will collapse if we do not act here”. The country's about to collapse! While, on the other hand, we allow judges to violate human rights, we close the Council of Justice into a narrow circle of people, no one will know how we will again have a judge on the agenda, why he was proposed, why there was no one else. The fact is that you will – you have told me a number of concrete experts who have supported this bill, well, I can say for one that they will support every proposal, only the one who will pay more, and then the proposal will be the best after it. That's a long way from professionalism for me. That I'm going to my mother's. It has been said that in the defence – I will talk about the defence, I will not talk about the lawyer, on purpose, because the defence is much more than a lawyer to me, because it protects the law and the defense protects the client. It's important to me, but now it's gonna be a lawyer. Why is there gonna be a lawyer? Because it won't defend the law, but it will represent someone. And how you've done all this "nice" now. Of course, you wanted to bring this law through the door bombastic, if you lost everything Slovenia had already lost before the European Court of Justice, and turn it into numbers. You know, I have to tell you one absurd thing. Now I went to take a good look at him at the time the minister spoke. We have the Republic of Slovenia before the European Court of Justice because of the Roma problem in the Dobroča village. When the Prime Minister asked him if he would do anything, I am talking about Mir Cerar, on this Roma issue, to get rid of him, he said that he wanted solutions and solutions, of course, and that they would do everything they could to bring about a solution. In this area, I must say this, because it is essential for continuation, we are late for some plan or national programme, which should have been adopted since 2016. You should be running for the next year. But the Prime Minister stands up for it. On the other hand, it is clear to the Republic of Slovenia that it has a discriminatory attitude towards Roma issues and that it has sufficient financial assistance. Last time I was on the committee of my colleague Eva Irgle, where there was a very high-quality debate, I also provided information that we do not have the data and that we are solving the Roma problem so little at all. And if one person in Strasbourg said this, that we give millions for the Roma problem, but we don't have any information on how many illegal settlements there are, and the state of Slovenia is sued, if it doesn't give water, then on the other hand, the European Court asks if you're even solving the Roma problem or why you let them be there. [[…]] Why leave them in an area if you don't give them water? That's a very good question. Is it true why we leave them in illegal areas on somebody else's land? And now someone digs in there and takes the water. But just to get it over with. We are looking forward to a strong lawsuit, and the Roma community is represented by Nina Zidar Klemenčič. Now you're gonna tell me it's the D.A.'s fault. Because the government doesn't move, now that attorney is going to be guilty? Yeah, it'll be new. Because he's going to become a public servant. Now, in this case, tell me what directions this public servant will receive for his work. On the one hand, he will be under the leadership of Minister Goran Klemenčič, and on the other hand he will fight his wife Nino Zidar Klemenčič. Let me know what happens in this case. Will the Attorney General defend the law or maybe he'll be scared because he's become a public servant and he'll be on the hook, you know? Put it down a little bit, lift it up a little bit. You can move a public servant quickly. And what are the greatest indications of this bill? Yeah, see if you're gonna tell me that when in some way being a public servant isn't so bad because you have a job for an indefinite period of time, and all of you in the system would then become public servants and have a job for an indefinite period of time considering that you're a functionary in a worse position also as regards credits and so on and life itself. [[…]] Then this would mean that the lawyers would actually support this, it would be logical. But they don't support it. Because it is not about personal interests, but it is about the functioning of the system, which, according to the new proposal, will be not only bad but catastrophic. One of the attorneys, the minister, you couldn't spell it out because there's no one to support this bill. And it's true. He fell in the state world. Legal and legal services are obvious to you. It's a packer, not a law! As you can see, now that this law is passed, some will continue to be officials because they will be there by the end of their term of office, while others will be public servants. And one day someone will come to the hall, who is an official, and another time a public servant. And one more thing. When it was said that control would be greater, even for the work itself, so that Slovenia would not lose. Do you know how many defense attorneys have had to leave their posts by now because they haven't been extended? The reason may also have been unworked. The number is not large because the total number of lawyers is not large, but the percentage is about 10%. Seven went out, and there's about 90 of them in the system. Seven of them went out of the system, they're working, and now you tell me, Your Honor, how many went out on the judicial branch of power? [[…]] How many lost their jobs because they violated human rights? Is anyone on the road yet? As far as I know, they're just rewarded. Nina Bettto is even the head of the ethics group at the judicial branch of power. I will also tell the public at home that, according to the new first defence attorney, the government will understand, on a proposal from the minister. This is really "independence". This is "independence"! This is now an organ because — why am I stressing this? Because the minister on the home committee, when we discussed the subject, said that the attorneys had actually raised their voices because they were politically staffed. But these people were just looking for a way to say it out loud because the minister didn't hear it. And that's also wrong in this country, and you can't say that anymore, because if you officially announce yourself to a member group, you're already politically disturbed. And I feel very sorry for these politically disturbed ones — now that they have become public servants, how long will they continue to perform these functions? Come in. In fact, it is also very important in this issue of the defence of information, which it has rounded up in the public domain. Of course, the minister will most likely reject it after a quick procedure, but he may reject it because it has already come to the public before, and it will be a little more complicated. I would like to point out that the First Advocate will be proposed by the Minister, but he will be appointed by the Government. Let me point out that in the Slovenian Democratic Party, on the parent committee, we have asked, literally, to consider that, however, this is done by the National Assembly, as we appoint the first judge, if I say so, it would be right to appoint the first Advocate. But this is just another proof of how the system actually goes under the wing, completely under the auspices and control of the minister himself. You know what's interesting? You all know that she was transferred to the Ministry a long time ago because, because she is a public servant, we can move public servants under the Civil Service Act, Simona Drenik. This is the lady who was at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and is a famous lady from the eavesdropper affair when it comes to our Slovenian border. Now it's been transferred to the Ministry of Justice, because that's where the battles are needed. Obviously. Many of them have recently come to the Ministry of Justice, but more interesting information is that this lady is supposed to become the first attorney in this country. I hope it's just a joke. I really hope it's just a joke. It is enough for me to have been transferred, such information that the lady should probably work in the system for a while as a public servant and only pray every day that our matters regarding the Gulf of Piran are resolved positively. Yeah, save the positive, because it's about Slovenia. I wouldn't ski here. It's about Slovenia. In short, you won't convince me, Minister, that this bill is a good one. You won't even convince me that the attorneys remain independent. Your colleague Jasna Murgel also said nicely when we first discussed this proposal, only you don't remember it because you can't, and she had quite a few comments. She had very good comments, and apparently she was not heard because the system was rolling further. Just do it. You can do anything, you have a sufficient majority, as said, you can adopt a law today that will not have a single letter on paper, will be empty papers themselves, and you will be able to do so because you have sufficient support. Just think about what you're doing with this country. Really think about what you're doing with this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Minister Goran Klemenčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u96	Dear Member, I could not convince you that the day is now outside, in my opinion, in view of your debate, which has often drifted away from the content and has repeatedly focused on my family and on me personally. But also okay, I'm an officer, I have to endure this, but once I don't, and even some obsolete deadline won't run out if you understand what I mean. So I'm not going to argue with things I can't argue with, but I just want to say a few facts. You said we were closing the proposal for a discussion, that we didn't want to hear it and so on. It is not only that we have met with them 15 times, they have been heard absolutely and there are different versions of the law, which we have also published regularly on the E-democracy website. The first proposal of the law – it was not done quickly, hidden and so on – was already 5. Seven. 2016 published on the website. Then he was on two state defence days, and once I, the secretary of state, where we introduced him to all the attorneys, we got their suggestions back, and we changed a lot, and we saw that we had changed. To all lawyers directly, at 60 e-mail addresses, we have sent various proposals for legislation from the Ministry in different stages. Then there was a debate in law school, a public debate on this subject, which I also participated in, including state lawyers, and there was a debate in the State Council. And what I have to say is, when you said that when they weren't heard, they didn't actually have any more comments at the end of the last version. Of course, that's not true either. It's not proven to be true. In a discussion between the President of the Government, the Advocate General, and myself, we agreed that when the law went through the government, that we should be able to take a stand before the National Assembly at this time also to see and enable as much as possible to facilitate the transition of the system, we saw if we can do anything else and so on. The State Attorney's Office explicitly rejected this offer and said: “We will fight for our position until the law is published in the official paper.” It's an expression of some very large, I'll say, arrogance, and also damage is caused by it. And today, because I believe that many of the lawyers are watching this – I know that many of the lawyers today are in trouble because they do not know exactly what the regulations, systemization and so on will be. Unfortunately, in this place, I must say that this is primarily the responsibility and guilt of the leadership of the State Defence, which, after the law had passed through the Government, rejected the joint talks between the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Public Administration to look at the placements in the pay grade, and we were in some way left to ourselves and to the positive cooperation with the Legal and Legal Service to prepare these opinions, because the State Defence did not want to participate, and that is the fact. On other matters, however, I must say that they are not those who, if we want to remain in decent criteria, would require an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u97	Thank you very much. [[advertising from the hall]] Here you go, replica, Mrs. Anya Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Chairman. I have to take this. First of all, Minister, I have not spoken about your family, I have spoken about what will happen when the Advocate is represented as a public servant to whom you will be superior, and you will work with him as a rubber, what he will do in the event of a specific case, I can say when Slovenia before the European Court of Human Rights and this community or representatives of the Roma community defends your wife. I just thought it was absurd for me. And he's absurd. But I don't go into your family relationships. Secondly, it is not true that the lawyers were heard, because if they had been heard, at least one would have supported this bill out loud. None of them are. That's not a sound. That's not a sound. And believe me, because of your affection, because you will now completely subjugate them, you would certainly rather kick with your legs and hands just to show that they support you. They are simply not concerned with their own interests, for many of them are very successful and will then look for their further ways elsewhere. The country of Slovenia will suffer. And do not compare us with Croatia or say that we are only comparable with Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. We're not even there after human rights violations, but we're longer than a banana republic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u100	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I would like to say a few words about the main solutions enshrined in this law. First, I would like to discuss the objective of adopting this law. So the purpose of this law is to transform the State Attorney's Office into a state's attorney. And why is that? I've written down three points that are important for transforming the Attorney General's Office into a state's attorney. First of all, it is being reshaped to ensure a more effective representation of the state, as the defence is unable to do so at this point because the function of defence is limited to certain disputes. Secondly, the State's defence, as a special public authority, will carry out professional tasks in the field of the protection of property and other State rights and interests through public representation in judicial and other proceedings before domestic, foreign and international courts and arbitration. The State's defence will also carry out the tasks of legal advice, the peaceful resolution of disputes in the previous proceedings and other tasks defined by this or other laws. Allow me to comment further on some of the main solutions to this law, which I find very important. The State's Attorney's Office is being established as a special state body. In the exercise of professional tasks in the field of the protection of property and other rights and the interests of the State, the State will be independent and autonomous. This is very important. However, under the supervision of the Ministry, we have already heard this today and there have been some comments that this is not right and I think it is important that this ministry's supervision be determined in law. By law, lawyers are renamed state lawyers who will be civil servants. In the State's Attorney's Office, the Attorney-General and his deputy will act as officials, as well as senior state lawyers, state lawyers and candidates for these lawyers, who will have the status of public servants. I think it's at the core of the conflict because the state's attorneys want to stay all the officials, and this law changes that. An independent commission is hereby established to assess the eligibility of candidates who will run for state lawyers. In the process of selecting the most appropriate candidates for the post of Advocate General and Senior State Lawyers, the Sui Genis of the Commission is envisaged to assess the suitability of candidates whose members will be independent experts. The Commission will be composed of a senior or supreme judge, a senior or chief state prosecutor, a senior state lawyer and a legal expert proposed by the Minister of Justice. In the past, the bill-maker has been repeatedly called upon by the State Attorney's Office to provide protection against the abuse of political power that has taken place in the past in the appointment of state attorneys. So we're changing that, and this definition ensures that no such anomalies are going to happen. Next. A more appropriate definition of the bodies of representation. The draft law expressly provides that the State and State authorities are represented before the courts in the Republic of Slovenia. With a view to more effective representation of the State's assets, it is further stipulated that public agencies, public funds, institutions, public economic institutions, local self-government, public undertakings and companies wholly owned by the State – this is important – may propose to be represented by state defence in a particular case before the courts of the Republic of Slovenia, which is of exceptional importance to them or for the Republic of Slovenia. Since the proposed representation will only be possible in exceptional cases, the Advocate General will also be able to refuse to take over the representation of those entities by reasoned opinion. So it would not have been said in advance that the work would be greatly expanded and that state lawyers would be showered with these cases. The State's defence will therefore only be able to represent each of those entities under two cumulative conditions, namely representation in a particular case and that this is an exceptional procedure for those entities or the Republic of Slovenia. Strengthening the advisory function is an important novelty that enters into marriage. In all matters relating to the protection of property rights and the interests of the Republic of Slovenia with the value of an item of more than EUR 100,000 and matters containing more complex legal issues, it is envisaged that the Government will be proactive in these matters, which will have to obtain a prior opinion from the State's defence. This is also a provision which I believe is very important, that there will be no mistakes or that the Government will have to provide a preliminary opinion on this basis from the State's Attorney's Office. A procedure for the peaceful resolution of disputes is also in place. Thus, this provision is introduced into the law in order to relieve state lawyers and to seek solutions in such cases in a calm manner. This is a matter of dispute before a fair or other procedure is instituted. The bill clearly states that an attempt to resolve the dispute peacefully is conditional in the previous procedure. Thus, the condition for the imposition of a fair or other procedure, otherwise the action or other motion to initiate a decision procedure, shall be rejected. It is then a more appropriate arrangement for representation before foreign courts and foreign arbitrations, as well as international courts and international disputes. In the current regulation, representation before foreign and international courts is regulated jointly and in a very general manner, and the proposal for this law deals separately with the issue of representation before foreign and international courts, as it concerns very different aspects of representation. An international department will be responsible for representation before international courts, now a European department, and other substantively competent departments will continue to be competent for representation before foreign courts. The fundamental difference is that international law is applied in proceedings before international courts and foreign law is applied in proceedings before foreign courts. Compared to the current regime, the competence of the State's defence attorney is explicitly extended to representation before foreign arbitration and international arbitration. In the context of representation before international courts and international arbitration, the question of delegation of representation is regulated in the same way as in the current regulation, and it is further specified that the representative may be a Slovenian national only. In order to assist in the representation, the Government may, at the request of the Advocate General, also engage another professionally qualified domestic or foreign legal or natural person. So when it comes to special cases, especially professional cases, it will be possible. In inter-State procedures and procedures before international courts and international arbitration, which have more important international or external political implications or effects, the active role of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is also laid down. This also strengthens the autonomy of state lawyers. The bill is based on the strengthened role of the State's lawyer, so the proposal for a law proposes to move away from the established guidelines on the basis of which state lawyers are represented under the regulation in force, i.e. the current 7th Section of the Law on State Defence. After the proposed application, state lawyers from represented parties are expected to receive all available information on the case, but representatives will no longer be obliged to provide guidance. Accordingly, state lawyers will be independent and bound by the rules of the legal profession in the performance of their legal representation tasks on a case-by-case basis. More appropriate than so far, it is also stipulated that the consent of the State's lawyer and the representation of the party with regard to individual key procedural actions, such as the initiation or withdrawal of the action, will be required. And also about providing work to the public. An important contribution is made to the transparency of the exercise of the powers of the State's attorney, according to the applicant's assessment, by the provision that the State's defence will lead and publish and regularly update on its website information on the performance of the tasks it will perform within its competences. This seems very important to me because it is a matter of transparency in the functioning of the State's defence and it is that we citizens are informed of his work and also of the success of his work. Another major innovation in public service provision is the introduction of more precise provisions on annual reports. From now on, the annual State Attorney's report will also include analyses and assessments of more complex cases and strategic orientations for further work, in addition to statistical data. Therefore, it will no longer be possible to be informed about some of the challenges of their work in the means of public information, and we will be able to read, as we have seen recently, that the State must bear high costs in relation to the Ormož sugar factory when the lawyers have missed their appeal. And also the possibility of a temporary assignment of a state attorney to another state authority. That's possible. If there is no full-time job for individual state lawyers, it will be possible to reassign him to another job, of course, appropriate to his professional education, to a specific ministry. And the disciplinary responsibility of state lawyers. The proposal for a law taxes acts which constitute an infringement of the official duties of a public lawyer. There are 23 types of violations of the standards on service obligations, of which 13 + 1 are defined as serious infringements. The bill distinguishes between disciplinary sanctions for easier disciplinary infringements, such as a reminder, a fine of up to 50 % of the salary of a state lawyer and disciplinary sanctions for more serious disciplinary infringements, there is a fine of up to 80 % of the full-time salary of the state's full-time lawyer, and there is also a clear definition of the disciplinary authority or bodies to carry out this procedure. It is also more appropriate to establish control over the functioning of the State's lawyer. As I have already said, the area of supervision of the work of the State Defence has not been specifically regulated so far, and under this law general supervision is provided for under the administrations and departments and individual supervision on a case-by-case basis. In our opinion, the bill is appropriate and, of course, we will support it in the parliamentary group. The fact that a public presentation of opinions has not been carried out [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u101	Thank you very much, Mrs. Popot. Time's up. I give my word to the Minister of Justice, Mag. Goran Klemenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Just for a little while. One thing that was then really repeated in the end is that if there was a conflict of interest in representing an entity against the State, the Minister of Justice would then cut down the heads of state attorneys because they were subject to the Minister of Justice and so on. One more time and one last time. Article 2, first paragraph, this law establishes the State Attorney's Office of Blah blah as a State authority which, in the exercise of its functions and powers, is independent and autonomous in accordance with the provisions of this Act. Paragraph 5 of Article 3, the Ministry shall take account of the independence of the exercise of the powers of the State's defence and shall not interfere with the decisions of the State's lawyers in individual matters. The law is full of these kinds of guards. The Ministry does not conduct disciplinary and supervisory proceedings against state lawyers, has its members in disciplinary commissions, one third. A third is from the State's Attorney's Office, a third is from the courts. Mostly, it's really bullshit. But it's not the stupidity of something else, and here I am again, I must say, it's still a naive one of the hypocrisies. You know, it's possible today. It's possible today. And do you know how long it's been? It's possible with the state's attorneys. You can give them specific directions, you can prevent settlement, if you don't like it, you can prevent an action if you don't like it. And do you know how long it's been? From the time of the taking state attorney's assessment that the return of the Blej island to the Church is not in the public interest. And she brought an action in the public interest against the court. Some government that was in power at the time did not take the initiative and amended the Law on State Defence following an emergency procedure and introduced guidelines. The government was the government of Janez Janša, the minister was Professor Sturm, Minister of Justice. The system referred to by Members who are not currently in the Chamber has been proven to have been introduced during the time of the government of Janez Janša. Such a system has been in place before, and we are correcting it again today with this change so that it is no longer possible to affect specific procedures in specific matters. And that's why it's so much harder for me to hear about something that they specifically passed, and this from a specific case, they're reading to this government, which, I don't know, could still prove by various legal provisions, that they're trying to strengthen the competence and autonomy of lawyers in specific matters. Of course, this must go hand in hand with responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u103	Colleagues, colleagues, anyone else want to discuss this point? Would you like some more? Don't you? The rest of the time. Okay. This also concludes the debate. I have just been informed that there is no more time left, so we are closing the debate and we will decide on the amendments in accordance with the timing of the assembly in half an hour in the framework of the votes. [[…]] I hereby end this item of the agenda and also the 29th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by the vote at 4.45 p.m. Thank you very much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u104	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. Before we proceed to the voting process, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: 3, 8, 9, 10 and 21 items of the agenda. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Road Transport Act after a reduced procedure We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments to the Road Transport Act is not suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left, Miha Kordiš.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u105	Thank you for your word, chairman. In the United Left, we will vote against the fact that this law is not suitable for further consideration, for a simple reason. This law is suitable for further consideration and has matured to be confirmed by the National Assembly. The situation in the transport sector is drastic. Drivers come to work sick because they fear loss of employment and loss of income, drive exhausted, drive furs last 24 hours, even more, sleep when they can, if possible, in the last seats of their vans. Why? All to make the licence holders more profitable. By means of this law, we want to regulate their situation and allow them regular employment for a certain or indefinite period of time and all the work rights that are going on. That would have been achieved in two ways. Firstly, we make provision for drivers to have proof of past salaries and employment contracts. Secondly, by installing tachographs in vans for out-of-line transport – GoOpti and company images, especially at the surrounding airports – we allow drivers to enjoy the necessary rest they are entitled to, and that the inspection can effectively exercise control over companies that are acting and violating labour legislation. What we are proposing is for the benefit of the drivers, protecting their working rights, but the scope of this law is not exhausted here. Because people come to work sick, burned, and so on, on the road, behind the wheel are not 100 percent, and it's only a matter of time before we can read in the fat press about the fatal accident caused by some hot cab driver for Goopti, another outbound transport and so on. Here it is very clear – a free enterprise initiative and crystallized capitalism, contrary to public interest, threatens not only employees, i.e. drivers, but also threatens their passengers and other road users. In the United Left, we will vote in favour of this law, which is against the fact that it is not suitable for further consideration, and we hope that we will also be joined in this vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u106	I'm asking if there's any other explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? No, no, no. Explanation of voice in its own name, Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u107	Thank you for your word. I'm disappointed and sad that you didn't recognize how important it is to adopt this law. When we go to the store, Hofer, Lidl, anywhere, and choose products, we never think at any rate about how the carriers drive all these things and how, despite being tired, they have to bring fresh ones at the right time. Truck drivers have to drive at night, and sometimes they load up, unload. We've talked to them many times, some even have to clean the tanks themselves, and it's happened that the carrier has fallen and died in this tank, and there are many fatalities. One even had a heart attack and barely prevented a terrible traffic accident, for these are multiton corps. In short, we would need a little more attention for such people, for we are only talking about reducing labour costs. We're talking about needing more security, safer jobs, you're talking about reducing labour costs. In order for you to think at some point on the other side, I can draw your attention to the play-documentary film played by my colleague Brane Finished, the title is Tir. He got mixed up between the carriers and pretended to be a truck driver. You will see bad things and you will probably start to think not only about the profit of the person who gives him the job, but about the safety of the employed person who sits behind the wheel, who risks his life, risks the life of many participants in traffic, so that we can step into the self-service and take fresh fruits or vegetables. Thank you. Of course, I vote that the law is suitable for consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u108	We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 58 votes against 6. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against six.]] I note that the decision has been adopted and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft law on apprenticeships in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 4. 2017. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to Article 1. The amendment is substantively linked to the amendments of the same proposer to Articles 2, 5, 36 and 37. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendments to Articles 2, 5, 36 and 37 shall become irrelevant. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left, Miha Kordiš.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u109	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. In the debate in the United Left, we have already warned on the Committee that this apprenticeship law gives us a new form of holiday employment. With the amendment to Article 1, we try to avoid at least this part in the way that apprenticeship is intended only for pupils who are under 26 years of age and under. Without this, the apprenticeship programme will be very quick to pay, and the lowest possible payment will be paid by some older unemployed person, who is already at the minimum, and will be sent through the apprenticeship regime through the excuse of retraining, and so on. In short, this apprenticeship law is truly written in its entirety as a crumb, and it leaves behind severe gaps and serious consequences for the labour legislation or its play.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u110	We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 8 votes against 48. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. As the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to Article 1 has not been adopted, the amendment of the same proposer to Article 2 has become irrelevant. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to Article 3. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left, Miha Kordiš.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u111	Thank you so much for saying that. Article 3 defines the objectives of the apprenticeship law. But these goals have two big problems. Firstly, they are written in a way that they fight with later provisions in the same law, which is also pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service. Secondly, they're ideally, ideologically, if you want, totally unacceptable. These include, for example, the third indent of Article 3, which states that apprenticeship promotes the integration of the economy into the education system. This means that the economy, the interest in capital, the private gainful interest in education, in public education, which by definition serves the public benefit. Or let's move on. The fifth indent of this Article states that apprenticeship shall ensure that the staff of the economy is adequately trained and shall promote the employment of young people. Of course, in the provisions that follow Article 3, neither the spirit nor the hearing, how young people will actually be employed, nor the guarantees the apprentices have to actually get to the service. This article in the United Left simply suggests that we follow to a large extent the warnings of the Legal and Legislative Services that point out the inadequacy of these provisions, and we suggest that they leave and leave the law. [[…]] Finally, they do not regulate anything; they are only a declaration of ideology that has no place in the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u112	We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 6 votes against 51. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to Article 4. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left, Miha Kordiš.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u113	Thank you for your word. Article 4 provides that young people will be included in the apprenticeship system, at least 50% of the programme will be done on the job. In a workshop, in a plant, in a factory, at the employer's office. But school doesn't just follow educational functions. He's got another one. Socialization, for example. But this socialization is only possible in teaching, as we usually understand it. With this amendment in the United Left, we want to allow the growing youth the socialisation they still need in these years, and we propose that they spend more time in regular education and less time than wage workers in the employer. Finally, the purpose of the school is to equip a young person with an understanding of the world and with a wide range of behavior so that he can be oriented in the world later. This also applies to practical knowledge. Practical knowledge is also part of the general view, general education and orientation in the world. But the law on apprenticeship and its 4th Article practice understand in a special way. In such a way that the apprentice must be entered into the service as soon as possible so that the employer can absorb the excess value from him. And the school, as a public apparatus to pursue public benefit, is subordinated to this goal by taking people from school and sending them to a wage apprenticeship pressure to an individual employer. And here we are proposing that this time of practical training by working with the employer be reduced.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u114	We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 6 votes against 51. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. As the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to Article 1 has not been adopted, the amendment of the same proposer to Article 5 has become irrelevant. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 5 under Article 2. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 7 votes against 49. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to Article 12 under Article 1. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left, Miha Kordiš.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u115	Thank you. We have some amendments to Article 12, so I will explain everything in one piece. The first thing we want to achieve with these amendments is that trade unions, as an organisational form of the working class, participate in the preparation of the apprenticeship implementation plan. They are a representative of young apprentices as workers and therefore deserve to be included in these discussions and preparations to protect their rights as workers' rights. The next two amendments cover the issue of the competences of the Chambers. In order to exercise their apprenticeship, the Government and its coalition decided to hang a bunch of competences that had nothing to look for there. We know that the chambers, especially the most insolent ones, have never cared for the public good, but always only for their own benefit. We have a medical room here, we have an economic chamber here, they're both very illustrative examples. And it is not right to transfer the power to maintain a variety of records to the Chambers. However, apprenticeship is part of the public education provided by the State and should therefore be processed and maintained by the State, in principle under democratic control. The other thing that's not okay is that there are mentors at the boardrooms. Selection, mentor training. For this part we propose to transfer to the centre of the Republic of Slovenia for education. The reasons are exactly the same as in the records. They are not and cannot be qualified to perform these tasks. Last but not least, what matters most is that apprenticeship, as laid down, means that, at all points, for every matter, the state subsidises or directly finances either a chamber or employers. And that's not right, because these actors are pursuing their own gainful interest, and public finances are here to serve some common benefit. European funds are also included in this Fund for Public Finance. All right, if European funds are to come, we can finance employers and chambers with these funds, with the means of purpose, but as far as the rest of the expenditure is concerned, the employers from the Chambers should cover them themselves. However, they are training their own staff, their future workforce and should pay for this skill for a concrete work process.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u116	We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 6 votes against 52. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to Article 12 under Article 2. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 5 votes against 54. [[The vote was 5.]] [[Against 54.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to Article 12 under Article 3. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 5 votes against 53. [[The vote was 5.]] [[Against 53.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to Article 12 under Article 4. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 5 votes against 53. [[The vote was 5.]] [[Against 53.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to Article 12 under Article 5. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 6 votes against 52. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats to Article 16 under Article 1. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 6 votes against 48. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to Article 16 under Article 2. The amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to Article 48. If this amendment is not adopted, it will become an amendment of the same proposal to Article 48 irrelevant. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left, Miha Kordiš.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u117	Thank you for your word, chairman. I spoke earlier about the fifth indent of Article 3 of the Law on apprenticeship, which is the objectives of this law. That indent states that the law is intended to accelerate the employment of young people, and then the later provisions of the law do not follow that objective. In the United Left, we are correcting this by means of an amendment and a provision which obliges employers to employ apprentices after the completed apprenticeship form of education. Without such a provision, without such coercion, if you want, the seizure of new jobs and the rise in employment rates are not an indication of hope. Employers work when they have enough work to take people to take someone new into a job that will bring extra money to the company, and the unemployment rate in Slovenia is not due to people being underqualified or misqualified, but simply because they do not have enough jobs. With such a provision, capital and employers, as well as its representatives, can be moved slightly from following only their own profits to being socially beneficial by creating new jobs.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u118	We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 5 votes against 54. [[The vote was 5.]] [[Against 54.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors – Christian Democrats to Article 18. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 5 votes against 48. [[The vote was 5.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats to Article 22. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 5 votes against 52. [[The vote was 5.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors – Christian Democrats to Article 28. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 47 votes in favour, 10 votes in favour. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to Article 33. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left, Miha Kordiš.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u119	Thank you for your word, chairman. As much as many people in this hall do not like it, apprenticeship is still part of the public educational process. Therefore, it is only right that schools are involved in preparing the contents of the mid-term test. At the moment, the law leaves it freely in the hands of the Chamber and the Professional Council of the Republic of Slovenia for vocational and professional education. Neither is it clear from the bill why schools here are briefly throwing themselves out. And because it is not clear, the error of the proposer, namely the Government, is being corrected in the United Left with our amendment and the schools we are restoring powers.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u120	We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, with 9 votes against 47. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 35(1). If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors will become a United Left to the same Article under number 2 and 3 irrelevant. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 50 votes against 7. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. As the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD groups to Article 35(1) was adopted, the United Left Amendment to Article 35 under Article 2 and Article 3 became irrelevant. As the amendment to Article 1 of the United Left Group has not been adopted, the amendment to Article 36 has become irrelevant. As the amendment to Article 1 of the United Left Group has not been adopted, the amendment to Article 37 becomes irrelevant. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats to Article 37 under Article 2. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with a vote of 4 to 48. [[Four votes in favour.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move on to the decision on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to the 41st Article under number 1. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the Joint Left Group will become irrelevant to Article 41 under Article 2. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 7 votes against 48. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move on to the decision on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to the 41st Article under number 2. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 6 votes against 54. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against 54.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move on to the decision on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to the 42nd Article under number 1. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 7 votes against 49. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats to Article 42 under Article 2. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 6 votes against 51. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Joint Left Group to Article 44. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 7 votes against 50. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move on to the decision on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to the 47th Article under number 1. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left, Miha Kordiš.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u121	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. We insist that the apprentices also have the right to trade union protection. They work double in this role. Not only as part of the educational process, but also as workers, which is something that this law completely overlooks. In Article 47, we try to make that, in the case of complications on the route, the employer and apprentices are also called by the union to immerse and represent the interests of the apprentice-employer, and that this is not just a chamber. Since the Chamber, as an interest association of the employer click, intervenes in a dispute between the apprentice and the employer, it is, excuse me, mildly disputed. At least as controversial as it was yesterday when the minister named his supervisors with his TES 6 scarves. A representative of the union must also be present in disputes between the employer and the apprentice. Unless you're the relevant apprentice in union protection, of course. In such a case, there is no need for a union representative to be present. In general, trade unions as an organisational form have both the right and the duty to represent the interests of the working class, including the interests of apprentices.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u122	We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 5 votes in favour and 53 votes in favour. [[The vote was 5.]] [[Against 53.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats to Article 47 under Article 2. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 5 votes in favour and 49 votes in favour. [[The vote was 5.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. As the amendment to Article 16 of the United Left Group has not been adopted, the amendment to Article 48 becomes irrelevant. We have thus concluded our decision on the amendments as well as the second reading of the bill. Since the amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the representative of the proposer of the draft law has already proposed in the debate that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, should carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present and 49 votes against 19. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 19.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. 3rd reading of the bill will take place on Tuesday, 25th. 4. 2017, after the final vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendments and the articles to which the amendment has been adopted. Amendments to these Articles may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Judiciary in the context of the regular procedure We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 4. 2017. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 11. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 15 votes in favour and 47 votes in favour. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 23. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 15 votes in favour and 47 votes in favour. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 25. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 15 votes in favour and 46 votes in favour. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 26 under Article 1. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD groups will become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 15 votes in favour and 45 votes in favour. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 26 under Article 2. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 52 votes against 2. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 63. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 15 votes against 46. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments, thus concluding the second reading of the bill. Since the amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted for the second reading, the motion for a bill in the introductory explanation suggested that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, should hold a third consideration of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 15. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 15.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. 3rd reading of the bill will take place on Tuesday, 25th. 4. 2017, after the final vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendment and the article to which the amendment was adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on State Lawyerry under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 4. 2017. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 94 under number 1. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD groups shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 15 votes against 46. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 94(2). We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 52 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This also concludes the second reading of the bill. Since the amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted for the second reading, the motion for a bill in the introductory explanation suggested that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, should hold a third consideration of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u123	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. We will not support the draft law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We will not support it for the first time because you did not allow it to be a public debate, although this law is in no hurry. We're not going to support him either because he wasn't supported by the State Council. We will not support it because there is not a single lawyer in the country who would agree to this bill. Nor will we support it because the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service was clear – that this law is controversial. Let me be a little plastic in the end. Following the new regulation of this law, a lawyer will meet in the courtroom on one side, who will receive his instructions indirectly from Minister Klemenčič and, on the other hand, a lawyer who will represent the client and will be named Nina Zidar Klemenčič. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u124	Now I must apologize to all Members for having to listen to this. You shouldn't have let that happen. [[advertising from the hall]] Because there is no explanation for the vote in the procedural decision. My mistake, I really am. [[…]] We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 13. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 13.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. 3rd reading of the bill will take place on Tuesday, 25th. 4. 2017, after the final vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendment and the article to which the amendment was adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. We're moving to 21. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. We are moving on to the examination of the proposals for election to a judicial function at the courts of the District Court and district judges at the District Court in Ljubljana and the District Court in Cerknica. The Council of State submitted the following proposals for election to the District Court in Ljubljana: Ms Maja Povhe to the District Court in Ljubljana, Mr Gregor Žika Shevo to the District Court in Ljubljana, Dr. Cyril Keršmanc to the District Court in Ljubljana, Mr. Tomaž Bromše to the District Court in Ljubljana, and Mrs. Katja Maramor to the District Court in Cerknica. To further explain the proposals, I give the floor to the Secretary of the Council of Justice, Mrs Ionika Marflak Trontel.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u125	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! You have five proposals before you for election by the Judicial Council and one proposal will be dealt with under the next item of the agenda. With regard to the four proposals for the election of the District Court Judge in the District Court in Ljubljana, I should like first to present the reasons for the invitation to tender for these judicial posts. According to official statistics of the Supreme Court, the District Court in Ljubljana is the most burdensome of all district courts in the country, while at the same time the biggest fluctuation of judges is in this court. With these proposals that are before you today, both the Ljubljana District Court, knowing that the number of judges must be reduced, only partially replaces the judges who have left the court for various reasons and have not been replaced. A particularly serious situation is in the field of specialised criminal justice and these candidates will, if elected, sit directly in the specialised criminal department and one in the investigative department. In addition, it is not possible to overlook the fact that the membership of specialised criminal departments in Slovenia in general, which are responsible for dealing with the most serious forms of crime, increased by more than 30% between 2012 and 2016. The only specialized criminal department of the District Court in Ljubljana is currently handling over 120 challenging criminal cases. In addition, in recent years both the District State Prosecutor's Office in Ljubljana and the Special Prosecutor's Office have experienced significant staffing reinforcements, at least to a certain extent the judiciary must follow. However, a free judicial seat at the District Court in Cerknica had to be declared for the purpose of ensuring the operation of the Court in general. From 1. 1. In 2015, this court has only one judge, which is being resolved by the redeployment of a judge from the District Court in Vrhnika, but this is just before retirement, and it only solves criminal cases under the jurisdiction of two District Courts. In the area of civil law, the District Court in Cerknica has thus been completely without a judge, which is resolved by the help of judges from other District Courts of Ljubljana, which is temporarily and to a very large extent very limited. 14 candidates applied for the free seats of district judges at the District Court in Ljubljana and 30 candidates applied for the free seat of district judge at the District Court in Cerknica. All specific selection procedures have, as usual, been carried out in two stages with the gradual elimination of candidates. On the basis of all the documents and oral interviews conducted and the opinion of the President of the District Court in Ljubljana or the Vice-President of the District Court in Ljubljana for the City of the District Court in the Cerknica District Court, the Council assessed that among the candidates submitted, the proposed stand-off was positive. As a student of the Faculty of Law of the University of Ljubljana, Tomaž Bromša was a successful candidate and graduated with a medal. He also proved to be involved in the legal examination and then gained 11 years of work experience, all in the legal professions. Ms Maja Povhe also graduated with an average academic success and also demonstrated such knowledge in the course of her legal examination. Since then, she has been employed as an expert at the Criminal Investigation and Juvenile Division of the District Court in Novi Grad. Since September 2009, he has also carried out tasks in the service for free legal assistance. Candidate Gregor Žika Ševo has 10 years of work experience following a legal examination, most of which time in the criminal field. Both in the State Prosecutor's Office, where for a shorter period as a national expert was assigned to work in The Hague for the Slovenian Representation in Eurojust, as well as from the lawyer's profession, where he is still employed today. As a student at the Faculty of Law of the University of Ljubljana, candidate Dr. Cyril Keršmanc was already very successful. He graduated with honor, received a special recognition from the Faculty of Law for his academic success. He graduated from the University of the United Kingdom and then obtained a doctoral title at the Faculty of Law of the University of Ljubljana. During the seven years of working experience following his legal examination, he acquired knowledge as a professional associate in court, as a researcher at the Institute of Criminology at the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana, as a senior supervisor in limiting corruption to the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption and, lastly, at the Ministry of Justice. First of all, as secretary in the cabinet of the Minister, he is currently working for the Director-General of Justice Law. It is also active in a number of additional professional activities. Katja Maramor was also very successful as a student of the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana. After a legal examination, she was first a professional member of the Economic Department of the District Court in Ljubljana, where she was well acquainted with the first-degree trial, and now she has been a civil adviser in the Constitutional Court for more than 11 years. All of these candidates have also had an extremely successful conversation with the members of the Council of Justice, so the Council of Justice of this candidate, Tomaž Bromseta, Gregor Žik Shevo, Maja Povhe, Dr. Cyril Keršmanc and Katja Maramor, is proposing to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for election to those courts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u126	The proposals were addressed by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. Here comes the presentation of the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Dr. Ange Logar has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u127	Your Honor! We have repeatedly addressed the issue of the number of judges in Slovenia on the Mandate-Election Commission, namely, Slovenia is known for its excessive number of judges per thousand population or 100,000 if you wish. We have repeatedly opened a debate on the need to reduce the number of judges while improving the efficiency of the judiciary. When the proposal of the Council of Justice came for an additional 5 judges, of which 4 at the District Court in Ljubljana, it was our simple question whether it was a matter of replacing the judges who went to peace, i.e. keeping the same number, or adding new judges to the system. Jane Petrič, Vice-President of the Council of Justice, was the answer, and I don't know that. During the period when we face the inefficiency of the work of the judiciary, while at the same time we are investing new and new judges in the judicial system, i.e. we are increasing the real and nominal number of judges in this system, it is difficult to speak on the one hand that it is the serious interest of the judiciary to improve the work of the judicial system, while at the same time solving its problems in such a way that it introduces ever-new and new judges into its system. The story before us is that one judge went to a higher court for two years and instead the District Court in Ljubljana received four new judges, which means that the number increases by three additional judges in nominal and real terms or in real time. When this judge comes back to the District Court in Ljubljana in two years' time, and when the Minister of Justice leaves his office after the end of his term of office, we will have additional judges in this system. It is feared that if we thus resolve the efficiency of the work of the judge, there is nothing more effective in the judicial system. The only proposal put forward by the Slovenian Democratic Party Group in this debate, which was very reasonable, was of a procedural nature – to provide an analysis of the number of judges, the fall and the rise, and the reasons for additional judges. Among other things, this proposal for an increase of four additional judges at the District Court in Ljubljana was signed by the former President of the Supreme Court of Masles 14 days before leaving the post of President of the Supreme Court. He may not have been particularly absorbed in this case, as he may have been deepening in another case. In this respect, it was a very unusual move by the President of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, for the first time in the history of parliamentary democracy, that he requested a written proposal for a procedural proposal, i.e. to move the decision to one of the following meetings. In order to resolve the efficiency of the court, by introducing new and new judges into the judicial system, the Slovenian Democratic Party is unable to agree, and will therefore vote in this respect as it voted in the Mandate-Election Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u128	We have concluded by presenting the position of the Group of Members. There are no applications for discussion, so we are moving on to a decision. I am voting on a motion for a decision by which Mrs Maja Povche is elected to the judicial office of the District Court in the District Court of Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 44 votes against none. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on a motion for a decision by which Mr Gregor Žika Ševo is elected to the judicial office of the District Court in the District Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 45 votes against 1. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on a motion for a decision by which Dr Cyril Keršmanc is elected to the judicial office of the District Court in the District Court of Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 1. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on a motion for a decision by which Mr Tomaž Bromša is elected to the judicial office of the District Court in the District Court of Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 45 votes against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am putting to the vote a motion for a decision by which Mrs Katja Maramor is elected to the judicial office of the District Court in Cerknica. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 45 votes against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the examination of the Proposal for an election to the judicial office of the District Court of Justice at the District Court in Slovenj Gradc. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the election of Mr Jernej Praznik as Judge of the District Court of Justice at the District Court in Slovenj Gradc. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to Mrs Ionica Marflak Trontel, Secretary of the Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u129	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! With regard to the need for an invitation to tender for this City of Justice, let me point out that in 2016 this Court was abandoned by two civil judges. This staff gap can no longer be covered by the court with the help of professional colleagues, and a new judge is urgently needed. 12 candidates applied for the invitation to tender. This selection process was also carried out in two stages with the gradual elimination of candidates and using different methods to determine the knowledge and abilities of candidates, through a view of the documentary documentation and through oral interviews. On the basis of all the documents and taking into account the oral interviews and the opinion of the President of the District Court in Slovenj Gradec, who was also present with the President of the District Court in Slovenj Gradec in the talks with the candidates in the Council of Justice, the Council of Justice assessed that he was a positive candidate of Jernej Poznik. The candidate Jernej Praznik was already very successful as a student of the Faculty of Law of the University of Ljubljana, he also proved to be in the course of his legal examination. After his legal examination, he continued his career in the judiciary, in a legal profession where he is still working today. It works primarily in the field of civil and economic law, gives legal advice to the parties, represents them before the courts and other state bodies, forms contracts and provides other legal services in accordance with the Law on Lawyery. During an interview with the members of the Council, it was confirmed that the candidate for the Festival had a very rich, broad and in-depth expertise in the civil field, that he had excellent analytical and logical thinking and that he was able to make very effective use of the expertise acquired in solving even the most difficult legal issues. Thus, the Council of Justice proposes to the National Assembly of Jernej Holiday for election to that seat. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u130	The proposal was addressed by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applicants for the debate, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision which elects Mr Jernej Praznik to the District Court of Justice in the District Court in Slovenj Gradc. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 43 votes against none. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision appointing Mrs Polona Car as a member of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 57 votes against none. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing a member and a member of the Public Sector Wage System Council. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. Following the presentation of the position of the SDS Group, Mr Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u131	Thank you so much for saying that. Public calls issued by the National Assembly, calling on the parliamentary groups to propose their candidates for individual invitations, are becoming a farce. In this mandate we have already had several cases, such as the call for the RTV Programme Council from the quota of sent groups, for the RTV Supervisory Board from the quota of sent groups, we have had an exchange with the NEK Fund and is a proposal for a parliamentary group, we have had a Broadcasting Council, as proposed by the sending groups, including ours, in all these cases. And in no case has the candidate of the Slovenian Democratic Party been elected, irrespective of all the rules and rules on proportional representation, to any of these institutions. We now have before us this call for a member and alternate member of the Public Sector Wage System Council, where they are also elected and proposed by the parliamentary group. The proposals were only two, the SMC proposal, which came with a proposal for a president and a deputy, and the SDS proposal, our parliamentary group, which also came with a proposal for a president and a deputy. And you won't believe that our candidate, Dr. Vinko Gorenak, was not elected president or vice president, but two of the representatives proposed by SMC were elected. In short, when even in the simplest things, where there is a parity, there is some proportionality, some natural phenomenon, if not, doesn't respect some will, some principles, some hygiene in human resources procedures, then we know where we came from. It is not possible to appoint only SMC members or perhaps any of the other coalition parties and no one proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party to all the functions available to the seats awarded by the National Assembly. It's unhygienic, unethical, uncultured, unpolitical if you want. We will not support this proposal, which is put to the vote when you confirm as a member of the Public Sector Wage System Council, Dr Mitja Horvat of SMC and Mrs Sonja Nahtigal, as well as the SMC proposal. We'll vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u132	There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision appointing Dr Mitja Horvat and Mrs Sonja Nahtigal as a member and alternate member of the Public Sector Wage System Council. A self-explanation of the vote, Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u133	Thank you very much. The leader of the parliamentary group has made his point, and I will only add the following. When we said whether we were going with any candidate or not, I hesitated, but I do have plenty of time to go to Ljubljana to do something in retirement. That is why this proposal has also been made. And I also don't remember having one political party in this way, this is the ruling one, so, whatever term I use, devouring, greedy or whatever in this area in such a way that it appoints two candidates from its own ranks for the next five years. Because regardless, you know who will be the coalition, who will be the opposition, whether you are still in Parliament or not, you will be there for five years. That's right. And here's what I'm going to say, I want Dr. Horvath to say with this greed of the coalition and the greed of the coalition a lot of success. But the case will find its place in my book. At that time, I will write a book when I go to meetings in Ljubljana and write a page about greed, the greed of a once strong party, and then probably no longer the party that is in Parliament when the book comes out. But I will vote just like the Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u134	We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 9. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of the President of the Management Board of the Fund for the financing of the decommissioning of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision to relieve Mr Gorazd Skubin of his office as Chairman of the Management Board of the Fund for the financing of the decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krška Nuclear Power Plant. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 59 votes against none. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, members and alternate members of the Commission of Inquiry on the identification of abuses in the Slovenian health system in the field of sales and the purchase of vascular restraints. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal for a decision. We're voting. 61 Members and Members present, 61 votes against none. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the termination of the functions, discharge and appointments of Vice-Presidents of the working bodies of the National Assembly. The proposal for a decision is prepared on the basis of amendments to the Decision on the establishment of the number of seats of members of the National Assembly and on the establishment of parliamentary groups belonging to them as Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the working bodies of the National Assembly, of 13 April 2017, and of proposals by the members of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, the Party of the Modern Centre, the Slovenian Democratic Party and unrelated Members. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 63 votes against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 29th meeting of the National Assembly, which we will continue on Monday, April 24th, at 9 a.m., where I expect you to be in better condition than you were today. [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, I'm not the president of any party to accuse anyone, but that's not right.
