ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-52.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 52nd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened on the basis of Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mrs Urška Ban, Mrs Suzanne Lepi Šimenko, Mrs Marija Bačič, mag. Bojana Muršič, Mrs Nada Brinovšek from 15.30 p.m., Mrs Jelka Godec from 15.30 p.m., Dr. Vinko Gorenak, mag. Matthew Tonin, Mr. Miha Kordish, Dr. Milan Brglez until 3:30 p.m. Branko Grims, Mr Franz Breznik, Mr Jan Mahnic from 2.30 p.m. and Mr Bojan Podkoršek. Representatives of the Council of State and representatives of the Government are invited to the meeting. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the setting of the agenda of the 52nd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You adopted the draft agenda on Friday, 1 December 2017 by reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not adopted any proposals to extend the agenda of the meeting, and I propose that the meeting today be held on the agenda, as you have received with reference. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members of the Commission are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. 66 Members and Members present, 66, were not voted against. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda of the 52nd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, it is for a re-decision on the law on amendments to the law on the financing of municipalities. At its 33rd extraordinary meeting on 21 November 2017, the Council of State requested that, pursuant to the third indent of the first indent of Article 97 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Law amending the Law on the Financing of the Municipalities be re-elected before the announcement. To explain my request, I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State, Mr Milan Ozimić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-52.ana.u2	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to all present in the Chamber at today's extraordinary session, which decides on a very important or one of the most important laws that defines the position of the congregations and the execution of their mission. As the Council of State, when dealing with this law in all the acts in which it actually participated, expressed disagreement and pointed out the shortcomings of such an arrangement, it was nevertheless important to note that this law does not constitute an improvement in the financing of municipalities, but even its deterioration in the future if it is enforced, and that the municipalities as a partner in this story of the functioning of the State or the implementation of the local mission of municipalities make it even more difficult and harmful for the municipalities in this respect. It is also harmful, according to the State Council’s assessment, because it did not come into existence in agreement with the representative associations of the congregations. In fact, this is a partner who, on the other hand, is a major user of this law, is shaping their destiny because it did not take into account the resolution of the problem also on the basis of the adopted strategy for the development of local self-government, which the municipalities reject because it was quite unilaterally adopted at government level. Thirdly, because it does not follow the findings and recommendations of the Court of Auditors. I stress this because this was one of the main arguments that the law is good and that it follows. At that time, the audit report recommended that the criteria for the financing of municipalities should be determined on the basis of the calculation of the actual costs of municipalities and those mandatory tasks carried out by municipalities and, on that cost basis, adequate funding should be provided for the part which the State prescribed for municipalities to carry out. This law does not take this into account. Finally, the President of the Court of Auditors said in an interview last week at one of the radio stations that the law is still unclear, non-transparent and still allows for a very arbitrary determination of the average, which depends on these solutions, now on some calculation in a fictional municipality and macroeconomic situation, which also in order to meet these criteria of this element there are no criteria for how these macroeconomic conditions should be taken into account. Of course, more detailed findings were exposed or in writing in the text and in the Veta’s explanation, so I wouldn’t particularly explain them because you’re very familiar with them. I would, of course, appeal to you to reconsider before making your decision again that this decision is of little pathetic importance for those who will have to use it and who, as such, are always opposed to it, a little pathetically said, crucial for the further development and execution of the mission they have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-52.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The request was addressed by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Use and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. In order to present the opinion of the Committee, I give the Chairman mag. Baby Verbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-52.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members and Members, representative of the executive branch of power, a very nice greeting! The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government is at its 60th emergency meeting. 11. 2017 as a parent labour body treated the request of the Council of State that the National Assembly decide again on the Law amending the Law on the Financing of the Communities. The request was presented by the Council of State, which initially stressed that the Council of State does not support the Law on amendments to the Law on the Financing of Municipalities, as it was submitted to the legislative procedure without further coordination with the Community of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia, with the Association of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia and with the Association of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia, and contains solutions that were created without a prior objective analysis to indicate the direction of urgent changes in the system of municipal financing and to define a fundamental attitude towards the financing of local self-government. According to the Court of Auditors’ Audit on the efficiency of the government’s operations and the ministries responsible for local self-government and financing, in financing the appropriate consumption of municipalities in 2014, 2015, the tasks whose costs are taken into account in setting the average should be clearly defined and that the amount of eligible consumption for municipalities should be as close as possible to the cost of the tasks to be performed by the municipalities. Only objective analysis can indicate the direction of changing the funding system of municipalities. Although progress has been made in co-financing the investments of municipalities, and for this purpose in the coming years 2018-2023 resources from the State budget are provided at a rate of three per cent in the form of grants and reimbursement to the same extent as the additional indebtedness of municipalities in the state budget, this is still not sufficient for all the needs of the municipalities. This is a system law which, in addition to the Law on Local Self-Government, governs the existence and mission of the municipalities, the representative stressed once again that the Council of State opposes it. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Public Administration said that it was clear from the explanation of the law that the allegations were not justified with regard to the amendment of the Law on Community Financing, because it was precisely due to the multi-annual verification of the effects of the regulation which was adopted ten years ago. These analyses have shown that the current model of average calculation needs to be improved, taking into account data on standardised costs, where possible according to the type of statutory tasks of municipalities. The analysis showed some additional deviations to be settled by amending the Law on the Financing of the Communities. The municipalities generate more than 80 % of the costs only within only seven out of a total of twenty-one programming periods. The new Law on Community Financing-1C also follows the conclusions of the Court of Auditors of June 2017 and of the Constitutional Court of November 2016, by laying down, in combination with regional laws and regulations, the mandatory tasks of municipalities. In fact, the Constitutional Court found that the law in force until 2017 did not comply with the Law on the Financing of the Communities, since it also contained tasks which were not municipal or did not provide for the law and therefore were not compulsory for all municipalities. At the same time, Novela follows the Constitutional Court's repeated findings that the Community funding system must be directed towards the so-called abstract municipality, as it is only in this way that an objective and universal way of financing the needs of municipalities can be determined. The new Law on the Financing of municipalities-1C updates the provision governing the fixing of the average by taking into account the macro-economic public financial circumstances of public finances in the determination process. At the same time, the Novela contributes to the deeper international cooperation of the municipalities as it introduces incentive measures to involve more municipalities with several common tasks co-financed by the State. On those grounds, the Government proposes to the National Assembly that the Law on the Financing of municipalities-1C be adopted. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that the State Council's statements merely referred to questions related to the assessment of the appropriateness of the legislation. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted the following opinion by a majority of the votes of all members, 11 for, 2 against: “The Law on the Amendments to the Law on the Financing of the Communities is appropriate.” Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-52.ana.u5	Thank you very much. In order to explain my opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government as a bill-maker. I give the word "magic." Kseniya Klampfer, State Secretary of the Ministry of Public Administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-52.ana.u6	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! At its 33rd extraordinary meeting, on 21 November 2017, the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia voted to re-judge the Law on the Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of Municipalities. It follows from the explanation of the request that the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia does not agree with the proposed text, because it was prepared without analysis, that it relates to fictional municipalities, that it is not clearly defined tasks to be taken into account in determining the past expenditure of municipalities, and that the gap between the capital and the other municipalities is increasing. In its written position, the Government stressed that the reasons for the request were not substantiated. The new law was created precisely because of the multi-annual monitoring of the effects of the regulation, which was adopted ten years ago. These analyses have shown that the current model of calculation of the average and appropriate consumption of municipalities needs to be improved, taking into account data on the real costs of municipalities. The amendments introduced by the draft law follow the findings of the above-mentioned analyses. The system of distribution of income as the primary source of funding for the commitments and tasks of municipalities through appropriate spending will be more equitable and will better reflect the actual obligations of the municipalities than ever before. The Law also follows the findings of the Court of Auditors of this June and the Constitutional Court of last November, so that, in combination with sectoral laws and regulations, it clearly lays down the mandatory tasks of the municipalities. At the same time, Novela follows the Constitutional Court's repeated findings that the Community funding system must be directed towards the so-called abstract municipality, since it is only in this way that an objective and universal way of financing municipalities can be determined. The note also provides that in the determination process, the averages shall be taken into account in the macro-economic public financial circumstances of goods and public financing. At the same time, it provides more transparently for the role and participation of the associations of municipalities in the process of reaching an agreement on the level of the average. At the same time, the Novela will contribute to the deeper international cooperation of the municipalities, as it introduces incentive measures to study a larger number of municipalities with several joint tasks co-financed by the State. In preparing the specific texts of the articles, the proposer also included, to the maximum extent, a proposal from associations of municipalities, both in determining the level of the average, in co-financing of the common municipal administrations and in determining the preceding period in which they would achieve the highest percentage of co-financing of the municipal investments provided for by the law. The Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia published a post-revision report a few days ago, more specifically on 22 November 2017, following an audit of the primary consumption of municipalities for 2014 and 2015 from June this year. The Government, the Ministry of Public Administration and the Ministry of Finance have assessed the remedial measures as satisfactory. The report confirms that the proposed amendment to the Law on the Financing of Communities followed the audit findings. At the same time, the government notes that the audit has contributed significantly to better legislative solutions relating to the community funding system. On those grounds, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopt a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of municipalities.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-52.ana.u7	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. Mr Zvonko Lah will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-52.ana.u8	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! It is amazing how easy the Government rejects all the arguments of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia. The only goal, it seems, is to convince ourselves that the Law on the Financing of the Congregations brings better and fairer funding to the congregations. It convinces us that the larger municipalities are at a disadvantage because they have more older people and more younger ones and therefore have higher costs for social protection and preschool education. What about small congregations, those with a large number of miles of local roads and unregulated municipal infrastructure? The government obviously forgets that we are talking about a system law that, together with the Local Self-Government Act, forms the basis for the functioning of municipalities, and forgets that the scope of tasks is constantly increasing and the resources for their operation are constantly falling. Taking into account the fact that the average was already EUR 536 four years ago, we cannot say that the average is increasing as the Government claims, because next year it will barely catch the level of the former average, which was significantly reduced in the interim period. In New Slovenia, we will also oppose the law this time, and we can only reiterate our view that this is an unreasonable opposition to all representative associations of municipalities, the State Council, Members of Parliament and ultimately to citizens. Nevertheless, the position of the Government and the coalition remains unchanged, even more so, they argue that the law is the result of a multi-annual review of the effects of the current law and that it will contribute to the deeper international cooperation of the municipalities, as it introduces incentive measures to involve several municipalities with several common tasks. Of course, such measures will literally force the congregation to unite. This notion of local self-government is, in our view, wrong and does not lead to a balanced regional development of the country. How can you claim that the change in the Law for the Congregations brings more just financing when as many as 145 congregations receive less money, on average by about 2%, while only 67 congregations will be better? Of course, it will be only larger municipalities that will receive on average less than 1% more funding. Thus, a number of congregations will receive smaller amounts of the average, and for most congregations this change in the law will bring a great downside. If we look at just the examples: Ljubljana City Municipality will receive 2 million 108 thousand more, Maribor City Municipality will receive 571 thousand more. What about those small congregations that will receive more than 2% less than they have received so far? It is the Municipality of Loška dolina, Luče, Oplotnica, Ribnica na Pohorje, Osilnica and Žužemberk. It is probably from all municipalities in Suhi krajina, because it is in the karst area, the most unregulated water supply in Slovenia. These are the results of this law. On the other hand, the Municipality of Ljubljana will acquire 3.3 million more to manage specific tasks as the capital. And let us not forget that until now, the scope of all these tasks has not increased, the amount of funds that Ljubljana will receive at the expense of other municipalities has increased. Any change in the Law on the Financing of Municipalities makes the situation of Slovenian municipalities worse. If such a trend continues, all the positive effects that the new local government has brought after 1995 will soon be eliminated, especially in rural municipalities, which have demonstrated by their independence that they know and can manage their premises better than in former joint municipalities, which have spent most of their resources on the development of the centres themselves. In Novi Slovenija we will also oppose the adoption of the law in a re-decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-52.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Dr. Franc Trček will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-52.ana.u10	Thank you for saying a nice hello to everyone! In order for today's re-decision on the amendment of the Law on the Financing of the Communities to take place, it was in fact clear when the proposal was tabled in the legislative procedure. Why? A set of negative opinions, opposition to the congregations, lack of dialogue. All of this is, unfortunately, a consistent practice of this and also of many past governments. Instead of urgently needed reforms of local self-government every year when adopting budgetary documents, the government is looking for possible solutions just ahead. However, the motive for these solutions is not the development of local self-government, but it is exclusively financial or budgetary and, most often, still cost-effective. In previous stages of consideration, we have noted that intervention in the financing of municipalities without any serious analysis is at least insurmountable and, of course, harmful. We have an audit report from the Court of Auditors. We know well where the system's greatest anomalies are, but the ministry has not yet embarked on serious reform, nor has the mini reform. The unclear procedure for determining the average, vaguely defined tasks of municipalities, the unclear order of activities, the system does not take account of all the relevant factors, the average is determined and not calculated, the Ministry does not carry out the relevant analyses. This is just a few key findings that are recorded in the Court of Auditors’ audit report. None of this is resolved by the proposed amendment. In fact, a serious debate on local self-government and its funding in this mandate was not opened by the Ministry of Field Affairs at all. Although we have considered the so-called Local Self-Government Strategy, which is difficult to name as a strategy. Its preparation did not involve a number of local government acquaintances, although both the Minister and the Government claimed otherwise. But it was clear from the steps taken by the Ministry after its adoption that the intended solutions would essentially remain only a letter on paper. One step in the wrong direction is to change the law on the financing of municipalities. The proposal does not address the key problems raised by the Court of Auditors, as highlighted by the mayors, who are exposed to the problem. It also does not eliminate the anomalies that exist within the funding system. The gap between the scope of the tasks, the actual costs and the majority of the average is increasing. The tasks of the municipalities are increasingly diversified and there is certainly a need for detailed analysis, which I have been alerting on behalf of the Left to the entire mandate. Serious discussions on the subject of duality, yes or no, of the region, yes or no or how many, were not in this mandate. We have good practices in reforming local self-government from abroad. Once again, we have the Ministry of Public Administration. During the mandate of this government and the coalition, there were no local elections, in short, in fact, all the preconditions for preparing serious starting points for reform were met in this mandate. But nothing happened. Problems remain, only deepening with any changes to the law and the budget adopted. The treatment of changes in practice also largely means nothing good. For this reason, we will also be opposed in the event of a re-decision in Levica. And one wonders, somehow, whether the people who deal with this issue on the government side, as well as the people in the coalition who advocate such a solution, are not these people citizens and citizens as the vast majority of us. A man often gets the feeling that he really isn't. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-52.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mag. Alenka Bratušek will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-52.ana.u12	Thank you and a nice greeting to all, respectable colleagues and colleagues! As for the first time in our parliamentary group, we will not support the Law on the Financing of the Communities for the most part. Why? Because it does not solve the underlying problems and dilemmas, because it does not solve what the Court of Auditors has pointed out, and especially because it is not coordinated with those concerned in the smallest part of it, it is with the municipalities. There are always new additional obligations on the part of the municipalities, otherwise this will be a proposal for a new law, which we are also deciding on, and things are not being resolved. And it is not acceptable to adopt such an important law without the consent of those to whom it applies. Therefore, once again, we will not support the majority law in our parliamentary group as we did last time.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-52.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Dr László Göncz will present the position of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-52.ana.u14	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! The Law on the financing of municipalities will be supported by the Member of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities because, despite all the criticisms made, it only contains certain provisions which are important for the functioning of the municipalities. Of course, we would also be more pleased if the executive branch of power were to be able to draw closer to the municipalities on the average and some other open issues, but we are also aware that there will probably never be a comprehensive consensus on this issue. As a result, it would be desirable to have a political consensus on regional organisation in Slovenia in the near future, which could, in particular, help to improve the systemic definition of competences at least slightly to regulate the financing of local communities. However, it is important for both national communities to adopt this law, as it introduces an important novelty which contains a provision which allows for direct funding of municipal self-government national communities. The current system of funding did not allow them to be financed. The newly introduced legal provision concerning the financing of municipal self-government national communities was created on the basis of an agreement between the Italian and Hungarian national communities and, of course, the competent universes of the executive branch. The most important argument regarding the possibility of direct funding of municipal national communities is that the organisations mentioned are persons of public law and their operation and programmes are financed directly from the state budget. The condition in the legal provision relates to the possibility of direct financing of municipal self-government national communities only if this form is decided in cooperation and agreement with the municipality. From the point of view of the State budget, however, the adoption of that provision does not constitute an additional burden. The balance between the amount of the budget allocated to the functioning and programmes of the Self-Governmental National Communities and the bilingual operation of the municipalities will be set out in the government regulation. That part of the funds intended for the bilingual operation of municipalities will continue to be directly indicated to the municipalities in accordance with the criteria of that government regulation. Finally, it is certainly important to stress that the adoption of this law will ensure that, in the decision-making process or in the distribution of the earmarked state money, which is provided specifically for the preservation and development of the Italian and Hungarian national communities, there will also be legitimate municipal organisations or they will be an equal partner in this process. So, like I said, we'll support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-52.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-52.ana.u16	Your Honor! We are in front of a law that we have already decided, and we have also decided that it is good and appropriate. Of course, on the basis of its legitimate and legal rights, the Council of State decided that we would also decide on the veto today. However, it speaks mainly of the reasons why he chose this veto because we did not really respect and accept all the proposals of the State Council. Never in any law did the National Assembly respect and adopt all the proposals, because, of course, all the proposals must be consistent with a concept and with some political and, of course, a direction on which the law is also adopted. However, quite a few large additions have been adopted, which are acceptable to the vast majority of congregations. Some of you have discussed this today, and I will mention at least three – SMC, Desus and SD have complemented, in the amendment form of course, three key supplements, which are very important. The data required to calculate the average costs of the municipal tasks of the Joint municipalities may be transmitted by 1 July, which, of course, was not possible as early as possible. The proposal for a law is complemented by provisions relating to the co-financing of investments, so that municipalities can also spend them on VAT payments. Thirdly, the ceiling of the total resources for co-financing the common municipal administrations from the state budget is eliminated. More importantly, more than a third of the congregations will receive significantly more funds than today, most of them will receive roughly the same, only a small group of municipalities, based on the facts found, less funds. I am convinced that in the National Assembly we have jointly assessed that we do not have a common denominator for all congregations, since not all congregations are equally and qualitatively burdened regardless of the tasks of local communities. That is why we will re-support the law in the SMC and consider that the law is meaningful and that it is also used in the way it is proposed. Finally, the Law on Community Financing is one of those laws that will change; of course, it will also change because it is increasingly clear that the autonomy of local communities can only be recognised on the basis of how much money they receive. But there are as many resources as we have at our disposal. And today we have such a calculation that we can also support in the given options. We'll support the marriage in the SMC.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-52.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Lisec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-52.ana.u18	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Dear representative of the Ministry, colleague and colleague, nice greeting! We will not support the Law on Community Financing in the SDS Group this time as well. More than that, since the last vote, i.e. the opposition of the SDS Group, more information has come to the fore, convincing us that the very philosophy of this law is completely flawed. Allow me to introduce a quote from the proponent, i.e. the government: “The analysis has shown that the current model of average calculation needs to be improved in the future.” According to our data, there are no more recent analyses, at least we haven't heard of them under the age of five. Therefore, the applicant said that the current model of average calculation should be improved in the future. Dearly beloved, I ask you: What is this better model for calculating the average where the municipalities are at a disadvantage? Of course, we are not surprised that marriage is so bad, for if the local self-government area is created by a party without mayors, then we know that we have the wrong world in this area. And while the government boasts about how awesome this law, which we hope will experience today's earrings, allow the quote of the Association of Municipal Communities, the Community of Municipalities and the Association of Municipalities of Slovenia, I quote: "The area of financing of local self-government is in a worrying state. The average level of municipalities does not yet cover costs under the legislation of certain tasks. In order to carry out the tasks lawfully, the municipalities must redistribute the funds which they should urgently devote to the maintenance and construction of the municipality, school and preschool, cultural, sports and other infrastructures.” So much for how this law is harmonised. Moreover, the government has repeatedly reiterated how arrangements need to be negotiated and agreements need to be respected. But here the government was making a small deal, and with a fig in its pocket, no decision was taken. Why? Again, I quote the representatives of the said associations: “Despite the well-intentioned attempts to find all sustainable compromises, the argument of power has prevailed, and harmonisation has not been possible, or we can point out that the Government has not expressed any interest in seeking constructive solutions.” And while the government boasts about how good the law is, while members of the opposition and representatives of the municipalities have warned that there are no analyses to address the issue of average and appropriate spending, and when we have only given certain Members the warning that the lifting of the indexation is wrong, we get the financial consequences only by abolishing the indexation. I quote: “The reduction in the average by the amendment of the Law on the financing of municipalities at the expense of the abolition of revalorisation is 40 million a year.” So much about how this government and this coalition are towards the local community, and we will probably hear in the adoption of the 2018 budgets, for 2019 in individual municipalities, loud calls from councillors about each municipality in the SMC, as far as you have, SD and Desus, how the state must help the municipalities and the state opposes the active role of local self-government. Moreover, what is good is that, in order to slowly increase the co-financing of investments, I quote: "...this relaxes very much more slowly by 2024" when at least one and a half terms of office of Members pass. In short, instead of a serious issue of self-government development, this law follows what this coalition has written in the Local Self-Government Development Strategy, two things: the complete absence of sound reasonable practice in local self-government and anti-constitutional action. In the constitution, the area of local self-government has its own chapter, and you want it to be phased out by such law as it is today. As it is said, in the SDS Group we are against such a law on the financing of municipalities and we are against the reintroduction of centralisation in the field of local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-52.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Benedict Kopmajer will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-52.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Nice greeting to the representatives of the government, the representative of the Council of State, the colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to again list the reasons why we will once again support the proposal of the Desus Group. The Court of Auditors’ audit has pointed out that the funding of municipalities is not optimal, the rules are weak and the analysis has shown that factors such as the diversity of municipalities, the impact of the various scenarios and, last but not least, public finances are insufficiently taken into account. For the determination process, the average was not clearly defined, which costs are taken into account for the determination of the average, nor was the average determination process itself. In addition, more than 80% of the costs are generated by municipalities within only 7 of the total 21 programme areas, namely education, the functioning of the municipal authorities, transport, social activities, social protection, space management and municipal affairs. On average, a group of municipalities with a high proportion of the elderly, social protection costs, and a high proportion of young people are incurred because of the cost of preschool education. The new Law on the Financing of Municipalities will contribute to a greater dependence on the level of appropriate spending on the demographic structure of the municipality, which we support in the Desus Group. The novelty also contributes to strengthening inter-ethnic cooperation, as it introduces incentive measures to involve a large number of municipalities with several joint tasks co-financed by the State. This seems to us to be a step in the right direction; inflation is being tackled as a significant change in the calculation of the appropriate consumption of municipalities. The inclusion of inflation in public funds is disappearing from legislation, in a specific case, the current solution should only artificially raise the funding base of municipalities. The financial impact of this change is expected to be neutral, on the one hand it will increase the balance of income belonging to the State, but on the other hand it will increase the need for financial compensation. Dear Members, in the Desus Group, we are aware that the existing law no longer follows the real needs and circumstances on the ground, so we will re- back up the amendment of the law for all of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-52.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The re-decision on that law will be made today, 15 minutes after the end of item 2 of the agenda. This concludes the first item of the agenda. We're moving to 2. This is for a re-decision on the law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2018 and 2019. At its 33rd extraordinary meeting on 21 November 2017, the Council of State requested that, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 and 2019 be reconsidered before the announcement. To explain my request, I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State to Mr Milan Ozimić. Here you go, Mr. Ozimich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-52.ana.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The National Council has not already supported the draft law in the legislative procedure for the adoption of the Law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 and 2019, since the proposed amount of the average does not provide adequate funding for Slovenian municipalities or funding for legal tasks, as well as the necessary investments and does not follow economic growth. In fact, this is the reason that we have been underlining all the time during the adoption of ZIPRS in previous years or their modification of the State Council on the basis of the definitions of the Communities' Associations and, of course, nothing has changed in all these recent years in this area in the approach and determination of the average. In practice, this means that municipalities must use those funds, which are earmarked, their own to regulate, in particular, municipal development, earmarked funds for the equipping of building plots or other own incomes, to cover the statutory tasks prescribed by the State in order to be carried out by the municipalities, and that these funds are not sufficient to cover them. This means directly facilitating the development of municipalities and reducing the level of satisfaction that municipalities have to perform for their citizens. The constant repetition, the proponent, the Government and ultimately the National Assembly, which adopts the budget and the Law on Enforcement, in some way followed the Government's arguments in this determination and failed negotiations with the municipalities. These were not real, never, but always used the arguments: “The municipalities have sufficient resources in the accounts and their funding is appropriate.” This is far from true, for in their business the municipalities must behave as a good host and cannot, of course, pay to public institutions in the field of education, to social transfers and to all the tasks they have. Second, the investment cycles of the municipalities are such that investments take place towards the end of the year that consumption can actually be made but not yet paid. And of course this picture is completely unrealistic, but it has always prevailed over this argument that the municipalities are adequately and sufficiently funded. The veto in the State Council is, of course, a consequence because we know in detail the problem of the congregations there. After all, the arguments come from very representative, competent representatives, namely mayors, municipal councillors and, in particular, those working in the field of local self-government. It hides many things that are unknown to the overwhelming observers or to the point of view of the issue being addressed from a center and from the position of power, or can be overlooked without bad conscience and correctness. It is also clear that the current average does not improve this situation, although it is a step forward and a constant warning. Of course, we do not imagine that this veto will break the budget because it is a very important document for the country, but a warning would at least be taken rather seriously because the problem, as we see it, is being treated in other laws in the same way and treated in the same way as here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-52.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The request was addressed by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as the parent working body. I give the floor to the Vice-President, Ms Vojka Shergan, to present the opinion of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-52.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. Dear representatives of the Ministry, the Council of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is held at its 86th meeting. 11. 2017, as a parent working body, considered the request of the State Council that the National Assembly decide again on the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 and 2019 because it was submitted to the National Assembly by the Government and adopted by the National Assembly at its 35th session. 11. 2017. Representatives and representatives of the Council of State, the Ministry of Finance and the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meetings of the Committee. In the introduction, the rapporteur of the State Council, on behalf of the applicant, explained the request of the State Council for re-decision on the law and presented the key arguments. He stressed that the reasons for the re-decision request were similar to those in the past, since it was a disagreement with the way and the level of funding of the municipalities, which affected the performance of the statutory tasks and thus the lives of citizens, as well as the investment in the municipalities. The representative of the Ministry presented a written opinion, stressing that the average is increasing every year taking into account fiscal commitments, and therefore considers that the National Assembly should support the law again. She said that agreement with the municipalities was difficult to reach taking into account the macroeconomic situation and the consolidation of public finances. It is necessary to stress the efficiency and efficiency of the municipalities and to point out that if the bill does not receive renewed support, the municipalities will receive 30 million less funding after the existing ZIPRS. In addition, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service explained in addition to the explanation of the opinion that the State Council's arguments in the request for re-decision relate to questions relating to the assessment of the substantive suitability of the arrangements to which the service cannot be defined, as they go beyond the scope of the tasks imposed on the Service by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In the debate, the views of the members and members of the Committee on the adequacy of the Law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 and 2019 were different. It was pointed out that the agreement with the municipalities had not been reached, that the municipalities, when the average is regulated in the ZIPRS, take the autonomy that is theirs under the constitution and that this should be regulated in the system law. The role of municipalities in ensuring the quality of life of citizens and in investment with European funds has been highlighted. It has been mentioned that funds for municipalities are not yet at the level of an uncriminal level and that the tasks of municipalities with appropriate weights should be evaluated, since the municipalities differ widely. The issue of the excessive centralisation of Slovenia was also raised and it was pointed out that local self-government is the foundation of democracy and that the independence of the municipality is determined by the Constitution and that funds must be provided for statutory tasks. However, the debate said that without the support of the proposed law, budget implementation was not complete and that the problem was elsewhere, namely in the system law governing the financing of municipalities. It was also pointed out that the trend is the average of the municipalities in growth, with an average of EUR 522 for 2018 estimated an average of EUR 551 and EUR 558 for 2019. These are historically the highest funds for average so far. It was also pointed out that the government must be prepared for the next crisis and should therefore follow the fiscal framework and fiscal consolidation. It was said that the average was around 50% of the municipality's assets and that there was room for manoeuvre for investments. It is also true that all congregations have a combined surplus of 114 million this year. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted the following opinion, with a majority of the votes of all members, 11 for and 2 against: “The Act on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 and 2019 is appropriate.” Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-52.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr Tilen Bozič, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, will explain the opinion of the Government as the bill's proponent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-52.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! It follows from the explanation of the procrastination veto that the Community of municipalities, during the negotiations, pointed out the need to set an average of EUR 609 for 2018 and EUR 616 for 2019. On a proposal from the Government, the legislator set an average of EUR 551 for 2018 and EUR 558 for 2019. The Council of State emphasises that the average for the next two years is increasing compared to this year, but far from reaching the amount provided for by the law governing the financing of municipalities, and that such a certain average is not sufficient to cover the increased costs that municipalities are obliged to cover at the expense of reduced investments. The gap between the associated assets and the needs of the local environment is expected to have long-term implications, as the current underinvestment will require much more investment in the future. Furthermore, it follows from the veto that the setting of additional obligations of municipalities, without providing sufficient financial resources, leads to a deterioration in the financial autonomy of municipalities and the other autonomy of local self-government and consequently its destruction. The Council of State considers that we should listen to the arguments of the municipalities and recognize the importance of financing local self-government for the quality of life of citizens, as most of the key activities of vital importance are taking place locally. The government emphasises that the importance of the municipalities in ensuring the lives of citizens has never been disputed. It is also not disputed that the calculation of the average level in addition to the calculation of the average costs for the financing of the tasks of municipalities should take into account a fiscal framework which at the moment does not allow for higher expenditure as set out in the State Budget Framework Decision. The fact is, after years of growth and higher income, we can expect a new change in the economic cycle, for which we must prepare well. The fact is, however, that the demands or expectations of municipal associations were as close as possible during the negotiations. Given the different expectations, guidelines and objectives of the economic and fiscal policies of the Government and the local communities, it is realistic to expect that agreement on the average is difficult to reach. In determining each time the appropriate amount of funding to finance the performance of the functions of municipalities under their original competence, account must be taken of, in addition to the needs of the municipalities, the macroeconomic and fiscal situation in the country and the requirement for a consistent and long-term stable system of public expenditure. The key objective of the state budget as an instrument of government in implementing macroeconomic policy is to achieve fiscal stability and a lasting and stable national economic development that is in the interests of the country as a whole. This objective must also be adapted to the economic and fiscal policies of other institutional units of the state sector. In the use of budgetary resources intended to finance the tasks of municipalities under their original competence, municipalities should follow the budgetary principle of efficiency and cost-effectiveness, which requires them to use resources to achieve maximum impact and to achieve a given effect with a minimum amount of resources. We believe that the proposed level of average intervention in the financial autonomy of municipalities is still proportionate between the revenue of municipalities and the cost of carrying out tasks under their original competence. The average for 2018 increases from EUR 533.5 to EUR 551 compared to 2017, and for 2019 it is set at EUR 558 and is the highest in history. Once again, it is worth noting that the aim of the negotiations was to bring together the positions of the Government and the municipalities in order to determine the average, taking into account the fiscal commitments that we have been reminded of in the past days, both the European Commission and the Fiscal Council have unfortunately not been possible. In view of the above and bearing in mind that, in 2018, in the event that the National Assembly does not reconfirm the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets for 2018 and 2019, the municipalities would receive significantly less funding than will be adopted on the basis of ZIPRS 18/19, I propose that the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the State for 2018 and 2019 be renewed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-52.ana.u27	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. Mr Luka Mesec will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-52.ana.u28	President, thank you for your word and a nice greeting to all! Members of the Left agree with the conclusion that the revenue of the congregations is too small. Indeed, they are too small to provide housing for all. They are too small for all citizens to have access to quality health homes and to stop granting concessions. There's really not enough money for community daycare. In short, there is not enough resources for those congregations that contribute to the well-being of citizens. In this respect, we fully agree in Levica with the members of the Council of State who have decided to re-decision on this proposal. On the other hand, we would point out to the members of the Council that it is necessary to propose or support measures that increase the income of the congregations and not vice versa. The members of the Council of State supported or did not object to such proposals in this mandate. If I mention a few cases. We all know that the basic income of municipalities is income, in Slovenia we raise a good EUR 2 billion, half of which is intended to finance municipalities. If one strives to increase the income of the congregations, as we understand that the State Council is, then it is logical to advocate an increase in income. However, for the first time, members of the National Council did not object to a reduction in income by 10% of the best paid in the country proposed by the Government, and for the second time, at least a few members of the State Council, particularly employers and local communities, have repeatedly supported proposals such as the NSI's new Income Act, which would reduce the revenue of municipalities by almost half a billion euros, half a billion euros. Those who support such ideas cannot seriously think with support for the development of the congregations. I don't even remember any representative of employers or local communities in the State Council protesting irrational spending in the state budget if I once again point out one example. In this mandate, the government has made several commitments to Nate. One of these commitments was that Slovenia will spend 1.2 billion euros by 2025 alone for the construction of two battalions of war abroad. This means an average of 150 million euros per year for armaments, for comparison. The Ministry of Labour will allocate 4.8 million euros for investments in nursing homes next year. Also available in the next budget for investments in hospitals is €26 million, i.e. 26 for hospitals, 4.8 for homes for the elderly, a total of 30, which is five times less than the next year for the additional weapons of this country. I do not recall anyone other than the Members of the Left protesting such an irrational use of public funds. At the end of the day, I stress that the money that comes to the municipalities comes from the same address as the money that comes into the state budget, which is from the pockets of the people and the people of this country who pay taxes. If I finish. Without fair taxation of high income, capital and high-value assets, public funds will always be scarce. And until these funds are given priority to prosperity, but they will no longer be used irrationally in the state budget, there will be no funds for the municipalities. We did not support marriage in the National Assembly, and we will not support it today. We call on the representatives of the Council of State to pay attention in the future to what they are proposing, what proposals they support and what they stand for. For we cannot be at the same time to reduce income, to lower other taxes and, on the other hand, to increase the income of the municipalities. Easy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-52.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mag. Alenka Bratušek will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-52.ana.u30	Nice greetings again, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! We will not support the implementation of the budgets for 2018 and 2019 in our parliamentary group as well as in the previous decision. Three reasons are crucial: the first is the salaries of public servants; the second is pensions; and the third is municipalities. It is rude to accept the state budget before you reconcile yourself with the public sector's salaries. It's impolite to raise the highest wages until you figure out what's gonna happen to the lowest. That's the first thing. Second thing, pensions and pensioners. For two years now, I have been trying to tell the coalition that it would be time to stop saving in pensioners. Why? Because we have economic growth because there is more money in the budget and simply because it would be the same. No, I do not want or promise thousands of euros in pensions, populistally, I do not promise an increase of 8 per cent and more, but I ask only that the austerity measures still in force end for the pensioners; of course, I am talking about the payment of the annual allowance and about some 20 million euros. That this is feasible, data show if we look at the realisation of budgets from 2015 onwards. The difference between what was provided in the pension budget and what was actually spent on pensions is great: in 2015 65 million, in 2016 49 million, in 2017 79 million and in 2018, for the purpose of pensioning 80 million euros, totalling 273 million euros. And you will find 20 million for such a regression as in 2011, at least such a regression, to get pensioners who have 550 euros and one cent pension. This is another reason why we will not support this law in our parliamentary group. The third reason, of course, is the congregations. The average – how we get to it is enshrined in the Law on the Financing of Communities. The government was supposed to find an agreement and agreement with the congregations, but she didn't find it. Above all, it is unacceptable that you always impose new obligations on the congregations and that the average does not follow. After all, even the last regulation adopted by the Government concerning the salaries of directors and certain directors, in particular those relating to administrators, of course also has consequences for the municipal budget and municipal budgets, and you have not added an average of not a cent in this area. In short, the salaries of public servants, pensioners, and pensions and the average for the congregations are three key reasons why we oppose this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-52.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Dr László Göncz will present the position of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-52.ana.u32	Thank you very much again, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! The law on the implementation of budgets is undoubtedly an important law in a series of budgetary documents and it is clear that there cannot be a single position of the position and opposition. It is also a constant that the ZIPRS is usually voted by the veto of the State Council. I take this decision of the Council of State as a very important element of the emphasis on the substantive problems of the budget and it must be taken seriously. However, in full view of our parliamentary group, I think that the balance of the 2018 budget is acceptable in terms of circumstances, to some extent optimal and therefore we believe that the proposed law, which we need to back up, is in its proposed form. That's why we're gonna back him up. Finally, let me say that the budget is also acceptable from the point of view of the national communities. It is not ideal, however, in view of the circumstances in such a dimension that it allows for the normal functioning of the national community. Finally, I should like to stress, which I also particularly thank the Ministry of Finance, that we have also been able to address the issue of pre-financing of national community programmes. Well, according to all of this, we'll be backing up the marriage again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-52.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Ms Vojka Shergan will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-52.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. Hello again! Today we are again deciding on the Law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 and 2019, which is a necessary and direct condition for the implementation and implementation of the budget. The adoption of the proposed law is essential for the implementation of the budget appropriations set for 2018 and 2019, which follow the improvement of the state of our public finances. We are therefore talking about the transition from a deficit of 1.2 billion in 2014 to creating an surplus of almost 51 million in 2018 and 54 million in 2019, which is a very encouraging journey for all. This law sets out the amount of possible guarantees issued by the State and the extent of the obligations that users may assume in the current year and which will fall into payment in the coming years. In addition, the law contains other provisions for which the Public Finance Act and other laws provide that they must be regulated by a law governing the implementation of budgets. The real needs of municipalities, on the one hand, as well as the macroeconomic and fiscal situation in the country on the other, must be taken into account when financing the performance of the duties of municipalities and their original competences. In determining the average level, the fiscal framework should be taken into account in addition to the calculation of the average costs for the financing of municipal tasks. This does not, at the moment, allow for higher expenditure than laid down in the State's Budgeting Framework Decision. But there's movement. According to previous years, the average for 2018 and 2019 is increasing – in 2018 EUR 551 and EUR 2019 558, which is the historically highest average so far. In the last 10 months, municipalities had even 114 million surpluses. As regards the determination of the average, it should also be noted that on 21 November 2017 the Court of Auditors issued a post-audit report entitled Corrective measures in the revision of the financing of the appropriate consumption of municipalities. In the post-audit report, the Court of Auditors concluded that the procedure for setting the average in the ZFO-1 amendments was clearly established. With the proposed average level of the Budget Implementation Act, intervention in the financial autonomy of municipalities is proportionate between the revenue of municipalities and the cost of carrying out tasks under their original competence. A consistent and long-term stable system of public spending and the stability of our public finances is the goal that our country must pursue and is also implementing through this law. However, these objectives and orientations must, of course, also be adapted to the economic and fiscal policies of all sectors of the country, i.e. the municipalities. The Act on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018-2019 for the said reasons will be re-supported in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-52.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Lisec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-52.ana.u36	Thank you, Vice President, once again for your word. At our pleasure in November, with a large majority, the National Council vetoed the amendment of the Law on the Implementation of Budgets for 2018 and 2019. The key reason is that the government estimates that the municipalities are underpaid according to the legal obligations imposed on them. And with these decisions of the Council of State, we fully agree with the SDS Group. At only the last three meetings of the National Assembly we have accepted more financial obligations for municipalities, such as raising the average from 2017 to 2018. So much for this historically high level of average. What helps you to have a high average when more substantive tasks and responsibilities are assigned to the congregations in addition? It also saddens us that what this government is doing with local communities will have negative devastating consequences only in the next term, when most of the composition of this national assembly will not be even close to the National Assembly. This is a key fact why in the SDS Group we will re-vote against the Budget Implementation Act or we will vote in favour of the Council of State. The second thing is, today we've heard a lot about the fiscal framework. What helps us in such a fiscal framework where the government at the letter meeting provides 21 million more for teachers in November and, on the other hand, the same government does not allow craftsmen, farmers, local communities and, finally, pensioners? Traders, economists and farmers are the ones who are the generators of higher economic growth. For all of this, they receive bonuses — Who? State officials. Because in ZIPRS itself, the government has decided to end the ban on employment in the state administration. And if we just look at what this government has been doing in the last two years, when more than 8 000 300 new employees have been employed in the public sector, which is more than 30 million new commitments for the amount of wages, it is worrying that this same coalition, which gives candy to the state sector, on the other hand, does not accept the annual allowance and more funding for pensioners, despite the fact that Desus has in the government. So much for who we're winning with this law. We are also against the Budget Implementation Act in the SDS Group because, when we listen to how we have new economic growth, the government does not follow through on measures to raise economic growth. In the SDS Group, we proposed an amendment to Article 69, by which we wanted to reduce VAT to a pre-crisis level, from 22% to 20% and from 9.5% to 8.5%. In addition, we have proposed that tolls with dependent family members be reduced by 25% for each member. But as always, no substantive amendment of the SDS Group received support. As it is said, those who are generators of good economic prospects, economists, craftsmen and farmers, instead of improvements under the new Law on the Implementation of Budgets, receive an additional stick. But those who are just consumers, so we officials, if you want, and the government, we get better ones. A totally wrong world set an example by this government. In short, as I said before, instead of giving it to the pensioners, you take it from them. Instead of giving the generators economic growth, you take it and you give it to your own. It is therefore totally wrong for the Government to draw up such a law on the implementation of budgets. It is therefore right that the Council of State vetoed such a law on the implementation of budgets. It is therefore right that we in the SDS Group support the veto on the Budget Implementation Act for the next two years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-52.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Uroš Prikl will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-52.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to list again some of the reasons why in the Desus Group we will propose a law whose enforcement is an urgent condition, an urgent condition, I stress, for the implementation of the budget, we will once again and unanimously support it. At the outset, I would like to mention that the next reconciliation of pensions will be twice, first on a regular basis, at the beginning of the year following the parental SPIZ law, and secondly in April, the harmonisation, which is precisely determined by the ZIPR, will be 1.1%. With this in the Desus Group, we meet our commitments, our promises to the people we have given them, towards a gradual increase in pensions, and we are, with a concrete provision, stressing, relatively satisfied. The envisaged coordination may not seem to be much at first sight, but it is a series of small measures, a series of small steps that are increasingly increasing the base or basis on which further increases or further increases in pensions are based. The following year, the total amount of appropriations allocated to the annual pension allowance will be EUR 140 million, which will be more than 13 million this year and will be equal to the amount before the implementation of the austerity measures in 2011. The lowest regress will be paid at EUR 100, which is for those who have a pension higher than EUR 780. So for the second year in a row, we have provided a regression for all pensioners and everyone will get more than this year. The annual allowance will be paid together with the payment of a regular pension for the month of July of the current year, in the fifth grade, which is the difference instead of two. Such a solution seems fairer to us in the Desus Group, I emphasise, is not ideal, but it seems more fair to us, especially to those who have lower pensions, because for them the allowance will be higher than it would have been in the two classes. At the previous meeting, too today and for some time now, we have been listening and we have witnessed the disappointment that the coalition is still saving on pensioners, which, of course, is not true, as the annual allowance for all, i.e. for 2018, will be paid to all, and this, we stress, in the same value as before the introduction of the austerity measures, namely the famous one, in the footnote of the famous ZUJF. In addition, let me add that I can sympathize with those who have not been perceived for some time now by public opinion polls, and we understand that they are working hard to secure a decisive breakthrough into Parliament. However, I ask that at least a minimum level be maintained here and instead of misleading people, it is preferable to serve truths and objective facts. Once again, the rise in pensions is due to the fact that when writing a coalition agreement in Desus, if you want to negotiate that when a gross social product rises above 2.5% each year, pensions will also be reconciled. Some looked at us very strangely at the time, as if we had fallen from the moon, but we believed in the recovery of the economy and the measures taken, which many times presented a difficult test and were not like. The result of all this is relatively high or absolutely high economic growth, which indirectly allows the coordination of pensions and the payment of the annual allowance, I repeat again, without any savings on pensioners. Of course, we regret in some way that there is no consensus on the averages between the congregations and the government again. In our Group, we are aware that many or all of the municipalities are plagued by a number of financial challenges and problems, so that they should be relieved of certain unnecessary administrative obstacles and obligations, and this can happen again and again, even during the implementation of the budget and implementation of this ZIPRO, which we are re-adopting or deciding on today. At the same time, however, we are also aware that we are still approaching the objective set by the fiscal rule. As has already been said, respected colleagues, in the Desus Group, we will unanimously support the bill's proposal as it will allow the implementation of the budget, which we think is balanced, sufficiently development-oriented and progressively oriented at the final stage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-52.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-52.ana.u40	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! The re-decision on the Law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 and 2019 follows developments also in previous laws on the implementation of budgets, as the Council of State has generally pointed out in this reference that the Law on the Financing of Communities on the establishment of the average is not respected. This is also the case in this law on the implementation of the budget, as the average is set out in the law on the implementation of the budget for 2018, EUR 551 and EUR 558 in 2019. The calculation of the average under the Community Financing Act shows that the average in 2018 should be €609 and €616 in 2019. The original sin of such an event is laid down in the provisions of the Law on the Financing of Communities, which states that the Budget Implementation Act sets the amount of the average. The explanation of this part of paragraph of the Article, which speaks of the financing of municipalities, is such that this average is not to be determined on the basis of negotiations between municipalities and the government. Of course, it cannot be said that local self-government is independent if the government negotiates how much it will be in the individual financial year of the funds it receives on the basis of the calculated average. Finally, the Court of Auditors pointed out that such a method of setting the average is inappropriate, that there must be clear criteria and then every year on the basis of these criteria, on the basis of the formula, you calculate the amount that the municipalities then use to plan their budgets. We expected, of course, all this time that developments will go in the direction of taking into account the comments of the municipalities and, consequently, the Council of State, through vetoes to these laws, but unfortunately, we can even see the entry of such a provision in order to continue to negotiate the congregations with the government, even in the new text of the Law on the Financing of the Communities. So, even a step back, not a step further from what the Court of Auditors has also pointed out, because the Court of Auditors is not talking about negotiations, but about clear criteria. So understanding local self-government is clearly still at this level, that it can be that part of the work of the administration or the implementation of tasks to improve the development of all parts of Slovenia in a way that depends on central power, if we can call it government. Surely, the solution in the future is the establishment of regional municipalities and the transfer of powers to municipalities, thereby clearing up this disharmony and misunderstanding of the functioning of local self-government and the state. For the reason that, of course, the Law on the implementation of the budget is linked to the already adopted budget, the amendments for 2018, as well as the 2019 budget, would also mean the rejection of the Law on the implementation of the budget, of course also the inability to implement these two acts, which are of course extremely important for the functioning of the whole country not only in the part relating to the functioning of the municipalities. That is why we will re-vote in the parliamentary group for the Budget Implementation Act, but at the same time current warnings remain that solutions to setting the average are not good both in the current law and in the previous one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-52.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-52.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Councillor of the State, representatives and representatives of the Government, dear colleagues and colleagues! In Novi Slovenija we have not supported this bill on budget implementation in the process so far. This proposal abolishes, inter alia, the total ban on new employment in the state administration, and the possibility of increasing the number of employees by 0,7 % is now added. What does 0.7% mean? At the beginning of this October, 30 000 692 people were employed in the state administration, and 0.7% of them are 214 new jobs. In Novi Slovenija we do not oppose the completion of the composition of the Slovenian Army or the Police. If we look at the civilian part of the state administration, it counted at the beginning of October 14 000 373 employees, 0.7% of which is exactly 100 people, it is said that 100 new people will get a beautiful pre-election candy; of course, they will be those who will be compatible with this coalition. In Novi Slovenija we are disappointed that the Fruit Government does not first distribute growth forecasts among taxpayers by lowering the tax burden for everyone, but rather by promoting employment again in the state administration. Instead of improving the efficiency of the state administration, the Mira Cerar government decides to simply increase the number of employees. At the same time, in its report on Slovenia 2016, the European Commission notes that Slovenia is very low in governance in public administration. In particular, the Commission notes that the executive capacity of the Slovenian public administration is well below the average of the European Union. According to a study by Beltersmann Foundation, executive capacity in Slovenia in 2016 is also well below the OECD average in all elements. Even after an analysis by the European Central Bank on the functioning of public institutions, Slovenia has not shown itself. On the basis of this index of efficiency of public systems, Slovenia is one of the worst ranked countries in the analysis of the European Central Bank. Instead of pursuing structural reforms to improve the functioning of the state administration, the government of Mira Cerar prefers to promote only new employment within it. The act of an official should not be focused on the question why something is not possible, but on the question of how we are going to make something real, realize, do something. On the other hand, the government is solving this problem, as has already been said, only with new jobs. The bill also slightly amends the annual pension allowance regime, which increases by 10 euros per year, i.e. 83 cents per month, and brings additional harmonisation of pensions by 1.1%. Although this increase will only improve the situation of pensioners for a slight reason, this represents only a drop into the sea for our pension system and does not necessarily bring any necessary systemic changes. If we are to secure decent pensions in the long term, ladies and gentlemen, we need to modernise the pension system today. That is why in Novi Slovenija we have already presented a proposal for pension modernisation with the introduction of a three-pillar pension system, which is based on the flow pillar, the investment pillar and the voluntary pillar. Such a system would provide at least €617 for every pensioner with 40 years of work with a monthly poverty risk threshold of €617. The new legislation removes all provisions that have limited the expenditure of the state budget related to the financing of municipalities in recent years. The deleted provisions are expected to be transposed into the Law on the Financing of Communities, which is still in the process of adoption in the National Assembly. The proposed law, in accordance with the law governing the financing of municipalities, remains a provision on the level of the average. The average shall be EUR 551 for the financial year 2018 and EUR 558 for the financial year 2019. As in the previous reading, we will not support this bill in Novi Slovenija. Under the line, electoral candy at the expense of community development – watch out for this government and watch out for diabetes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-52.ana.u43	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We'll have a re-decision on that law in 15 minutes. I hereby interrupt the 2nd item of the agenda and also the 52nd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed at 15.50. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-04-SDZ7-Izredna-52.ana.u44	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned meeting of the assembly and move on to a redecision on two laws. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the interrupted 1st item of the agenda, this is by re-decision on the Law on amendments to the Law on the Financing of Municipalities. We are moving on to a re-decision on that law. In doing so, I would like to point out that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a majority of Members should vote in order to amend that law, i.e. 46 or more. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 51 votes against 23. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude the first item of the agenda. We continue with the end of the 2nd item of the agenda, this is by re-decision on the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 and 2019. We are moving on to a re-decision on that law. In doing so, I would like to point out to you that in the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a majority of the members of the National Assembly must vote in order to adopt that law, i.e. 46 or more. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 52 votes against 21. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 21.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes item 2 of the agenda. Members and Members of Parliament, please take away from the hall everything you have on your benches for the purpose of performing the 90th Chamber of Members festive academy, which will begin at 5 p.m., to which of course you are also invited. I hereby conclude the 52nd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly.
