ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 34th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, Marinka Levičar by 12 noon, Nada Brinovšek, Jelka Godec, Marjana Kotnik Poropat, Erika Dekleva, Andreja Potočnik, Vesna Vervega by 12 noon, Suzanne Lepi Šimenko, Milan Brglez from 17.30 p.m. to 19 p.m., Andrej Šircelj, Uroš Prikl from 12.17 p.m., Jan Mahnic, Jože Tanko from 16.30 p.m., Franc Trček from 12 p.m., Matej T. Vatovec from 2.30 p.m. and Matjaž Hanžek from 10 p.m. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving on to 24. On the day-to-day basis, this is a report by the Ombudsman of Human Rights of the Republic of Slovenia for the year 2016 with a proposal for a recommendation. The twenty-two regular annual report was submitted by the Ombudsman for consideration. I give the floor to the Ombudsman, Mrs Vlasta Nussdorfer, to further explain the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u2	Dear President of the National Assembly, Dr. Milan Brglez, distinguished Members, Members of Parliament and, of course, present-day guests! The presentation of the Ombudsman's annual report for the past year is certainly very important both for the Ombudsman's institution and for our citizens, because they can hear the Ombudsman, who, of course, briefly presents the report, here I am with three deputies, and also your responses. I thank you for having already discussed our report with some commissions, committees, the National Assembly's parent commission, which is very important for the Ombudsman's work, and, of course, the Council of State. This time, I'm coming before you with three reports. The first report is a basic one, i.e. a report that we submit every year, and this time too, unfortunately, we were not able to go below the 400-page magical limit. Of course, I would like it to be shorter on my own, but he did recommend slightly less than he did in recent years. The second report we present to you and has 200 pages is the State Preventive Mechanism report. This report is also very important for our citizens and citizens, because the State Preventive Mechanism controls all those institutions where freedom of movement is limited, it is taken away, not only prison institutions, detention facilities, juvenile homes, educational homes, but also psychiatric clinics and homes for older citizens – where freedom of movement is limited. I can already say here that the Ombudsman is a friendly point, the first friendly point in Slovenia since this summer, which is very important. But we're also a nice Unicef children's spot. The third report, this particular one, which we will also consider, which I thank you for, especially as a special point, is a special report on violations of rights to those persons who are unwittingly resident in special protected departments of social security institutions and who have been found by the Ombudsman to be in violation of their human rights. Sometimes we like to say that numbers are not everything, but numbers are also work indicators. The Ombudsman's institution has a lot of work to do with about 40 employees. We take the initiatives of both citizens and citizens as well as others who are with us, including foreigners, but of course we also open many topics on our own initiative. This is extremely important, and it is in the National Assembly that I am often asked whether the Ombudsman receives only mail and solves it or opens up difficult matters, even in his own judgment. Believe me, there's more to all these things every year. So if we're talking about numbers, maybe just a few numbers that are important. Ten thousand calls to our free phone number, of which about a thousand calls directly to experts and coworkers who take time. And it is precisely because of these almost thousand calls that we can record fewer initiatives, because a very thorough analysis of the case over the phone can sometimes tell someone who is the caller that the call to the Ombudsman is too early, maybe too late, because the matter is already legal and there is nothing more to do, even final, it can solve a lot of difficulties, because, as you know, it is also known from the shows where I'm performing, that they call to us also those who respond to the media, people who don't know the way out, who are in terrible trouble, who don't know where or where. Every year we have over 400, last year 430, very different events, which are public, where we participate or represent them, we organize, this is an extremely important activity of the Ombudsman. In each chapter, we decided to put it to the end, so that everyone can see what we have done in a particular area besides taking initiatives. We have 12 foreign businesses every year. Last year we met almost 400 people in foreign affairs across Slovenia. Believe it or not, this business, the almost relocation of the Ombudsman's institution to the field, is a huge resource for the Ombudsman, because there can be more deputies, professional associates, we are on the ground all day, not just that, we meet with the mayors, and we can talk to them about all the topics that touch people in the specific congregation, and at the end, we can even resolve, perhaps even with the mediation, what personal distress someone has suffered, and we can also resolve this in a conversation with the mayor. At the end of the day, we are also preparing a press conference, so at least we are presenting to local media what we have seen in a particular area. We are always careful that we are at least once a year close to the border with Italy and are dedicated to one minority, the Italian national community, and, of course, once near the Hungarian border where those who are the Hungarian national community live with us, and give them a lot of attention. The next thing we know for sure is discussions at the headquarters, talks with ministers, talks with representatives of different institutions, some, those most attractive to work and for human rights violations, we invite the Ombudsman even more often. We are also very active in meetings with NGOs. These are the reflections of people, in fact those who often point to the situation in society, and in particular in the field of the environment we meet almost every month with one such non-governmental organization, either at our home or in the territory where we have seen a number of environmental violations where people live. In my report, that is, our report, which is so extensive, I used one thought that is very eloquent: when you do wrong to someone, sometimes you forget it very quickly, if you suffer it yourself, you can remember it for years and years and it hurts you very much. And if you could tell people in general how people look at the work of the State, what the Keeper points out, you could say that in the first place it's good, you'd rather say bad governance of those who are in pain, bureaucratic relationship, closed doors, all too much walking, a lot of regulations, not even people with legal education, they might even have very different opinions about them. The next thing the Ombudsman finds out is also the non-participation of institutions. When it comes to a problem that has to be solved by either more ministries or more departments in these ministries, there are usually problems because there is no proper coordination. But if I wasn't just critical, I'd start with compliments. I can certainly commend the response reports of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Previously, we received them very late, against autumn, in September, this year twice, which is very commendable, meaning that the government is closely monitoring individual areas. Believe that at the end of my term next year, when I finish it in early 2019, we will look at all six years of recommendations that are unfortunately repeated, at those in which we can praise the country because it has implemented them, at those that are permanent or partially realized. I'm sure they're all in place. All these years you have accepted them in the National Assembly and committed the institutions of the State to implement them. Unfortunately, we don't always find out that way. The following thing is certainly the requirements for assessing the constitutionality in which we have succeeded, but believe me, even if we have failed, the Ombudsman respects the decisions of the Constitutional Court, we believe that we have made the right decision to submit. Such a decision was certainly also about the acquisition of the pension age according to the time of the study and the military. This was the last decision that we respect, but we believe that the principle of fairness requires that, given that they are coming in this area of pension reform, which has already been withdrawn in 2012, the announced changes – as a guardian, I would like them to be just for everyone, both for those who bought the pension period, voluntary insurance and for those who had to buy it for thousands, 10,000 and more euros. We certainly looked forward to new arrangements last year following a constitutional decision on rent subsidies. It was unfair, and it is right that the Constitutional Court so decided. Moreover, the rights of public funds for independent entrepreneurs, which in fact had been attributed to them by a fictitious income, which may not have been achieved, were too high, so that they did not receive certain subsidies or social transfers, which was unfair. And that's why I think it's the right decision. In some cases, we have left, and you know this, to the Constitutional Court to find an answer to whether or not a regulation has been adopted, and therefore we have a completely peaceful conscience. Next thing you know, the laws you've passed. I'd start with ours. Thank you for your support. After many years of becoming a guardian, for the first time I met the problem of whether Slovenia needed a national institution. All the years we recommended it, and now, on October 14th, our law entered into force — in the first part, the child’s advocacy is extremely important, sad, 10 years as a project, but it ran successfully — we have helped or at least tried to help more than 550 children. The other thing that comes with a 1. 6th, the Human Rights Council and later our institution will be added to the Centre for Human Rights just before I leave. 1. 2019. So, the marriage is under the roof, an important marriage. I am pleased with all the laws that touch the weak, these are particularly children with special needs. It's a long-awaited, long-awaited country, so I'm glad there's finally movement in this area. And if I may add here, don't diminish rights. If economic growth is high, please also return those that have been taken by certain legislation in 2012 due to restrictions. Writing water into the constitution — we have been active here for years, and we are glad that this has happened. There are many such laws, such as the Law of residence. Homelessness is a subject that touches people in some way. And the people of this residence didn't have to change, we demanded it, we achieved it, thank you. So there are many such laws that you have adopted, with which you have tried to regulate the area of the weak, the weakest, but remain critical points. These points are certainly, if I go somehow in a row and walk through our annual report, in the first part in the field of constitutional rights, the ethics of public words. I won't talk about it much. Many, especially the online space, are one where you can complain under the cover of some cappuccino invisibility, if you were to see it, would certainly speak differently. For me, that's not the real freedom of speech. Freedom of speech is, if you talk, get up, say, you have a face, a name, and you can stand behind it, but if you break certain rules, you can be responsible. The guardian can't respond to everything that people write on Twitter, for example, in private mail, on Facebook right now. We have repeatedly been alerted to various irregularities. This is a private dispute between the two, we have crimes that are being prosecuted by a private action, and a threat on a proposal. The next issue is certainly discrimination. Discrimination is still present, I still find it hard for students with disabilities, discrimination in the area of Roma issues, it has been mentioned many times, in short, all the weak groups who are in the minority often feel discriminated against, they point out. Justice – an eternal theme, I am pleased that the time of resolution has been cut short, but as we know, sometimes some people themselves generate long trials if they do not benefit from it, and thus the right can have more faces, which is just for me, maybe not for someone, and even the highest judgments experience sentences of injustice, criminal trials. Police procedures – here we are pleased in particular with the police response, responding extremely to everything we are proposing, and this very quickly, does not wait for the report, we often also meet with the competent ones. Finally, police procedures are those that can still touch our freedom, our dignity, and therefore it is very important that they are under control that people realize that dignity is first. Of course, in all these matters, it is necessary to investigate matters, to be just, and then to be alert all the time. The topic that is very upsetting for our citizens and citizens and which is very hot is certainly a working relationship. There are changes coming, but I wonder when there will be enough work inspectors. If they have opportunities, they are not, it means for people to have an open chance of things running too long, that there will be no solution and that the breach will be too much. It is difficult to see people coming with a legal decision, but they only have paper in hand, enforcement is not possible, because there are no more people in debt to them, their uncles, their aunts and relatives are business owners. People are in great pain, especially since they know that they are not living badly, that they have cars, houses, and they find this solution extremely criminal. The house is extremely important, and I am therefore pleased with all future changes in the field of enforcement, already announced, prepared, because it is certainly necessary to find out with the Centre for Social Work how to save the home, how to save the children, that there is no implementation for small amounts. Thus, labour law is certainly good for those who respect it and always a paradise for those who do not. Environment and space – surely very important, sometimes we don't even realize it, because we think that we are living today, so old and so old, someday the end of the world will be, but surely we need to think about our children, our grandchildren, capital must not be before health. The Ministry of the Environment and Space must be closely linked to the Ministry of Health in its actions. So I would move on to the area of health, which is also at certain points, which you often look at in the National Assembly, for people who are very hot. It is difficult to see people who have 300, now 500 euros at the end of October, but it is not money to pay any health priorities, any special interventions, or dental services. Many people who come to the field show their teeth for a visit and say “How to afford something if I have such a pension.” This is also linked to the possibility of free legal aid that people need almost every day at every step to be sovereign so that they can count on successful lawyers to help them. In the area of health, therefore, we continue to beat the bell in the field of waiting species to move away the treatment that is urgently needed for someone to ask himself every day "or I will only be next year in a row". Of course, there are many areas in which the National Assembly should adopt a number of other laws, and you talk about this daily and I look forward to all of your suggestions today on when you will analyse our report. I am sure that each of you has also looked at the news, because at the beginning of the report we presented our institution this year in a completely different, more plastic, more understandable way, with numbers, even pictures so that we can see exactly what we are doing, where we are and how we are working. Surely, then, the report is the one that requires responses. He recommended many, slightly less than the previous years, some are fortunately already realized, and that is exactly what I am happy about. In some, however, the Ombudsman also notes that we are staring at dead spots. I am afraid that the time before the elections for some things is too short for people and, in particular, politics to open up topics that may be controversial, which immediately call on people who are against any change. This is certainly the case sometimes with these health regulations that you have recently adopted in the field of health. There's a lot to discuss. The Ombudsman will keep reminding us of everything that is happening in society, for every day we receive a number of letters, and we also open questions on the basis of journalists who open up more pressing topics. There is much that we must dwell, respect one another, that where my rights end, others begin, and that this space must be carefully protected. Thank you for having considered our report in all your working bodies, that you have taken time for it, and that today, because I am running out of time for this introductory part, I will listen to all your debates, to the opinion that I will be able to respond in the end. So, I look forward to all your comments, opinions, criticisms, the Ombudsman and will also work in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u3	The report was addressed by the Commission for petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities as a parent working body and prepared a proposal for a recommendation from the National Assembly. I give the floor to Mrs Eva Irgle, President, to present the Commission's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! At its 18th meeting, the Commission considered the Twenty-Friendly Annual Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016 for petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities. At the beginning of the hearing, the Ombudsman Mrs Vlasta Nussdorfer gave an additional explanation for the report. She presented the team that participated in the preparation of the report and added that they had issued three reports this year. She said that they have addressed broader topics that cover a larger number of people. Often they were on the ground, the new chapter is the first chapter in the report, where they wanted to present the Ombudsman's institution. It highlighted the importance of two government response reports, even this year they note that there is a lack of cooperation between authorities and in some areas they only observe positive changes. She mentioned the requirements for a constitutionality assessment submitted by the Ombudsman and, as a result, assessed by the new body, this is the Advocate of the principle of equality, “we have waited 13 years for the national human rights institution”, she said, and brought about a change in the Ombudsman's law. They also paid a lot of attention in this year's report to the judiciary, where the situation is expected to improve. It also mentioned a negative case of founding wills and a related responsibility. Special attention shall be paid to unaccompanied minors and persons placed in institutions against their will. There is a significant problem with the downsizing of debts, and proportionality needs to be sought in this regard. He then received the floor of a representative of the State Council, who said that the Ombudsman's report had been examined by two commissions to find that it was still extensive, he was talking about justice and related problems, the problems of the Roma community, various forms of violence in the Slovenian space, and the incomprehensible decisions issued by various national authorities. He also received the text from a representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. He said that the Government had addressed the Ombudsman's annual report for 2016 and expressed his appreciation for the professional and quality work done, which was a good basis for the work of the Executive Branch. At a systemic level, the government has changed the methodology for monitoring the Ombudsman's report, and the Ministry of the Interior's website shows how effective they are when taking into account the Ombudsman's recommendations. The representative of the Ministry of the Interior said that they were seriously considering the Ombudsman's recommendation and were working to improve the quality of their work and remedy the shortcomings. They followed the Ombudsman's recommendations adopted by the 2015 National Assembly and proceeded to implement the recommendations made by the Ombudsman in this year's report. Then the representative of the Ministry of Health also spoke. She said that the Ombudsman's recommendations were taken seriously. She also expressed satisfaction at the opening of the pedopsychiatric section, which should also be provided with the necessary resources. The representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for nationality, representative of the Supreme Court, representative of the Supreme State Prosecutor’s Office, then received the floor. The Advocate of the principle of equality considered that the Ombudsman's report could address the diversity of different types of discrimination and pointed out that the conditions for the functioning of the new body were not guaranteed at the outset, so they turned to the Ombudsman. This was followed by a debate between members and members of the Commission on petitions and on human rights and equal opportunities. They submitted their opinions and observations on the content of the report. The question was raised whether we were actually a legal and social state. A lot of the Ombudsman's recommendations, as we have noted, have not yet been implemented. Citizens often feel powerless in administrative procedures, some unable to afford legal aid and so on. The draft recommendation of 19 was then put to the vote. 9. 2017 adopted by the members and members of the Commission. The members and members of the Commission also voted on and rejected the proposals for the recommendations of the Levica Group. An integral part of this report is a proposal for a recommendation drawn up by the Commission as its parent working body and addressed today by the National Assembly. The recommendation is: The National Assembly recommends that all institutions and officials at all levels take into account the recommendations of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia in the 22nd Annual Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u5	I give the floor to the representative of the Government to present the opinion. Mr Darko Stare, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u6	Thank you, Mr. President. Nice greetings to the well-respected guardians, deputies, deputies, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Government took note of the Ombudsman's report on work in 2016 at its meeting in July this year and notes that the ministries have been active in implementing the Ombudsman's recommendations and have made every effort to implement specific recommendations. The government’s response report consists of three sets, the first part containing the government’s response to your recommendation, i.e. the recommendation of the National Assembly adopted at the time of the Ombudsman’s 2015 annual report, then the government’s response to the Ombudsman’s 2016 report and the government’s response report to the State Preventive Mechanism’s performance report. As well as in recent years, the Government notes and assesses that the Ombudsman's recommendations are extremely professional, that they are based on concrete cases of practice, i.e. life situations, and as such are extremely good grounds for finding solutions to implement recommendations in the form of systemic, that is, normative, solutions, organisational or financial, which is, last but not least, primary responsibility and the function of the executive branch. The review of the implementation of the 2015 and 2016 Annual Report's recommendations seems to me to be relatively encouraging, as it shows that since the total number of recommendations for 2015 we have addressed and implemented in 2016, we have implemented 23 recommendations in the executive branch of 23 recommendations in full, 24 in part, 20 of them are permanent tasks. It is even more encouraging to see that I have also heard this in my presentation by the Ombudsman, but for this year we have already made recommendations from this year's report, which will be discussed in the coming year, implemented 9 recommendations and partially implemented 26, of which 20 and 24 are such recommendations as are the permanent tasks of individual departments or executive branches of government. The continued effort and maintenance of the human rights level achieved in the Republic of Slovenia is an important responsibility and concern of the Government and of course of all its departments, so last year we made a methodological breakthrough in order to ensure as much transparency and efficiency as possible in ensuring that human rights are adequately protected and enforced in order to ensure that human rights are effectively realized and guaranteed. To this end, you have adopted a special law, a amendment to the Law on State Administration, which explicitly commands the responsibility and care of the Ministry of Justice, a system-wide concern for a unified approach in the implementation of the recommendations proposed by the Ombudsman in her annual report. The Government has set up a special interdepartmental working group, which is a permanent body responsible for systematic monitoring of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, and has also set up a permanent project group, which operates within the Ministry of Justice, which is responsible for the uniform and effective enforcement of individual judgments of the European Court of Justice and, indirectly, recommendations which are substantially linked to the respected Ombudsman. A special half-year report has been introduced, the purpose of this half-year report is simply to ensure, as we say, a systemic concern that we are constantly active, attentive, and not least to ensure continued transparency and our ability or success in implementing or implementing individual recommendations, and it seems to us that this may also contribute to our greater effectiveness. As an important step forward at systemic level, it is worth mentioning the law that you have recently adopted on a proposal from the Government and in some way also provides a system framework and an appropriate basis for the Ombudsman to have conditions under the so-called Paris Principles and to have status A and also a system framework and a normative basis that will provide better opportunities for an even higher level of child rights in our society. Of course, all of this would not have been achieved to such an extent if the Ombudsman and her colleagues had not done such an important job and would not, with their valuable recommendations of the executive branch and all the important institutions in that country, have warned, encouraged and also recommended that we do this together because it is for us and for the higher level and prosperity of our community. Thank you very much again for your work.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u7	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, a magi for her. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u8	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The twenty-two regular annual report of the Ombudsman of the Government of Nussdorfer is highly optimistic. It is pleased that the country responds better to the Ombudsman's recommendations. Part of this can be attributed to more encouraging circumstances both in the economic and social spheres, unemployment is shrinking significantly, and poverty is also slowing down, but slower than we would like it to be. The work of the Government also encourages these beneficial indicators, even though many do not want to or should not see. But the fact is that the release of excessive savings strengthens the social security of citizens and citizens. Various institutions play an important role in strengthening the social state and its associated social justice. In the last period, we have developed a broad institutional infrastructure in the field of human rights protection, with the recently adopted amendment of the Law on the Ombudsman, the role of the central messenger of human rights and fundamental freedoms, the Council and the Centre for Human Rights established under the Ombudsman will be strengthened, important institutions of promotion and education in the field of the promotion and protection of human rights, the institution of child protection will be formalized, in order to hear the voice of children in various cases, on the basis of the Law on Protection against Discrimination, we have an Advocate for the principle of equality. Such broad institutional support for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms is necessary, but not a sufficient condition for their respect, so we must also restore confidence in those institutions, including policies and justice, whose past actions have raised doubts when certain decisions are taken that they work for the benefit of an individual or group. The trend towards creating an enabling environment to strengthen the social situation of the community as a whole is therefore tangible. The guilt of the most affected individual. We will be pleased when each individual has the conditions to make use of all possible resources, or at least to have a tangible hope that such conditions will be available to him in the near future. It is therefore right to maintain, at the same time, the satisfaction of the improvement, the awareness that as politicians and society in general we are called upon to co-form a better life for all. Therefore, in the Group of Social Democrats, we draw attention to some of the things that we have already highlighted and remain unresolved in the past. As individuals on the outside of a highly ethical society, we have not yet developed zero levels of tolerance, we still observe violence in our neighborhood in a safe distance, we tolerate them by trying to reduce their importance, when we pass them on as individual excesses, similar to different forms of psychological and sexual violence, or as in the case of Korean boys – without knowing the actual situation, the street takes the right to decide the greatest benefit for the child and to make a first-class political show. And the problem of children with special needs and their parents is still not solved. We are pleased that after several years of complications, the school has finally opened the door for children with special needs in Ptuj and that an early treatment law has been passed in the National Assembly, but not as a society and not as a policy of tasks we have not yet done. In particular, the Ombudsman's report draws attention to barriers to access to the various goods of the social state, particularly education. In previous reports, we have warned the Social Democrats about the plight of children who are in long-term care at the Stara Gora Institute. No matter how much money was provided, there is still no tangible movement. The likeness of Stara Gore more than the civilized attitude towards severely ill children still reminds us of the cruel sights of the placement of children in the institution 100 years ago and over. The maturity of a civilization is also shown in relation to other vulnerable groups, such as the assistance needed by the bureaucratic mind of the dose, the basic needs of which can be bought from social aid, the elderly, who are in the midst of social conditions and the family situation with modest incomes, who are willing to support their family members, the sick who are waiting too long in the ranks to deal with health, the workers who are often only an instrument in the service of capital, the irregularity of Roma settlements, where children are deprived of the most basic goods, the closure of our world against the crowd, who in fear of their lives and in the hope of a better world fled from us. It's all part of our everyday life, even if we close our eyes. Respectable and respected, you don't have to do that. The decision against poverty is a decision taken in the heads of all those who are first called to account for the situation in the country and therefore the institutional shift must also be followed by a shift towards more tangible actions. Circumstances allow us again to fulfil the fundamental commitments on which our country is based and to steal a better social state according to the measure of all. Progress is evident, but for an individual who has been wronged, it still happens to be too slow. The esteemed guardian, you and all those who care for the welfare of the people within the institution, we sincerely thank the Group of Social Democrats for your work presented. At the same time, we are re-emphasizing a sincere commitment: we will do our best to improve the situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u9	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u10	Honourable President, Honourable Guardian of Human Rights, Ministerial Assembly, Colleagues and Colleagues! The Ombudsman's regular annual report has for several years been a reflection of the situation in a country which has highlighted more or less the same emphasis: long-term judicial proceedings, backlogs in the resolution of complaints against first-degree decisions in virtually all areas, labour relations, scholarships, the exercise of rights from public funds, social security and unemployment, health injustices and many others. The 2016 report is also, we can say, the same. The Ombudsman's report highlights the sad truth, referred to as quite catastrophic, which is yet to be seen by the Ministry of Labour and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Poverty is on the rise in our society, social differences are only deepening. As the main problem in the area of social security, it refers to the growing poverty of a large part of the population. The consequences of poverty, which we are constantly alerting to in Novi Slovenije, are wide. The poor material condition affects the self - image of these people, their family relations, and, above all, it violates the right to dignity for these people. What does the competent Ministry of Labour and Government of the Republic of Slovenia listen to and see that nothing has moved in this area in the last year? Since 2012, the Ombudsman has been referring to the ineffective resolution of complaints against first-degree decisions on public funds rights. The Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities should ensure that decisions are issued within legal time limits at the first and second stages of the decision-making process. The Ministry does not implement the recommendation, but the report does not feel that the situation in this area would improve. Some resolution procedures have 2013 and 2014 – where is legal certainty here? What can someone who needs help do during this period of time? For this reason, Christian Democrats ask ourselves whether the Ombudsman's institution is not merely reduced to a warning and the Government does not heed the Ombudsman's recommendations and warnings. The watchman is therefore the voice of the crying out in the wilderness. The Ombudsman and I agree that the rule of law is too often gravely violated, and that is unacceptable. However, in New Slovenia – Christian Democrats will continue to be strongly reminded of these injustices. In the field of labour relations in the Office of the Ombudsman, they recognise that the number of initiatives taken does not in any way reflect the actual situation in the field of labour rights, since only violations and irregularities caused by the authorities can be dealt with by the Ombudsman. In fact, a number of initiatives are addressed to the Ombudsman, which show serious abuse of the rights of employees, which they cannot deal with because of their lack of jurisdiction. The key issues in this area are: carrying out inspections or supervision of employers, non-payment of salaries and social security contributions, implementation of traineeships, probationary employment, postings to work abroad, violence at work, torture, mobbing, bullying, non-payment of overtime, inadequate working conditions and other forms of violence at work, the situation of employees in the Slovenian Army, employees in prisons and problems of recovery of overpaid salaries, as required by public servants. In the section Discrimination, we find a comprehensive report on a number of initiatives, which in depth present examples of initiatives in the field of discrimination between different social groups. For several years now, Christian Democrats have been reminding us that a regular annual report is leaking, on purpose or purpose, an important part of the people of our country — Christians, faithful people. At its winter session on 29 January 2015, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe adopted a resolution requiring more religious freedom and respect for religious pluralism in the Member States. Europe, which should be an international example of respect for religious freedom, is unfortunately becoming at odds with this idea of European integration. There are reports of violence, vandalism and other forms of hostility to Christians and churches on European soil. The Authority shall be responsible for a reasonable regulation of the situation which in practice respects freedom of religion. For the first time in a long time, we were able to read in the report the condemnation of unacceptable vandalism in the Korinska capital. In doing so, the Ombudsman stresses the importance of shrines for believers regardless of religion. On the other hand, the Ombudsman also attacks Catholic believers in this report, saying that he does not really understand the concept of a positive separation between the church and the state. We are concerned about the tone of the debate that took place in the general public and in the sphere of public authority in connection with the blessing of the premises of the Polica Branch Primary School. We agree with the public statement of the Academic Society, which points out that it is a simple and unconvincing interpretation of the principle of separation of churches and other religious communities from the State, which is obviously given in order to exclude certain churches and other religious communities from public life, and the Ombudsman participates in this. Along with many understandings, we ask the Christian Democrats where we came from. The Ombudsman requires sanctions for the blessing of the new branch school that parents and teachers wanted? In that statement, lawyers point out, quote: "The Slovenian legal order does not prohibit schools and local communities to agree on the blessing of a school facility with any of the churches or other religious communities if they consider it appropriate. In a specific case, the blessing was done by the representative of the Catholic Church, who has the most members in the local area.” The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia pointed out in one of the decisions that, I quote: “The distinction between religious communities on a particular issue is permissible if there is a reasonable, real reason in the nature of the matter”, the end of the quote. It is the belief of the Council of Europe that the State must condemn and punish any form of hate speech or violent act that constitutes an attack on any of the religions. Such an attack also means discriminatory legislation. Discrimination as such requires not only members of a minority but also members of the majority religious community. The media generally do not detect and report on these phenomena. The sentences are very cheap for the competent state institutions, and unfortunately also for the Ombudsman's office to be involved. This is also a very topical and pressing matter in the Republic of Slovenia. This also confirms our recent claim that the Ombudsman does not carry out his tasks in accordance with expectations. Often it does not come when it is absolutely necessary, or sometimes it advocates positions that are contrary to the interests of most citizens. We have stated that if the Ombudsman were to be a true defender of all citizens, he should speak to himself or draw attention to other human rights violations in his annual reports. In its reports, it very often draws attention to discrimination against members of the Roma community, members of national communities and others, but never to the data on discrimination based on the religious and political belief that is on the rise in Slovenia. We also expose intolerance and hateful action against Christians, such as insults and public incitement to hatred of Christians, statements by Svetlana Makarovič, vandalism and defamation of religious symbols and objects. Such statements are rarely accompanied by the response of the Ombudsman and other representatives of the State. The Ombudsman responded to this position with a long public statement, a precedent and an effort to present an unwarranted view. We believe that we have properly justified our claims here. The Ombudsman also warns in the field of health care, the report states that the work of the Health Insurance Institute in decision-making on rights should be improved. The Ombudsman draws attention to the acute issue of too long waiting periods in 2016. Long-term procedures for putting interventions into space, water land issues and water permits. A few fewer housing cases were dealt with in 2016 than in 2015. The situation in the field of jobs, housing shortages and housing units and rental subsidies is still alarming. The problem of migrant workers remains a problem. In Novi Slovenija we are disappointed that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not yet taken serious action to address this problem, let alone to find a solution. We Christian Democrats have already proposed a solution to the National Assembly, a change to the Income Law. Our solution calls for a single general relief of 7,000. Unfortunately, this has not been adopted, but we have tabled a new law, and I hope that this matter will be resolved in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u11	The word is given by the Left Group, Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u12	Respectable Ombudsman, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! The Ombudsman's report is reviewed every year. The Ombudsman is an independent and independent body and is not part of the mechanism of authority, but a supervisor of all three branches of authority. It limits the will of all these branches of government and controls their functioning. The Ombudsman shall carry out his work primarily on the basis of the initiatives put forward. In 2016 there were over 3 000 of these cases, of which 2 000 722 cases were completed by the Ombudsman, and in 357 cases the initiatives proved justified. In doing so, we must pay attention to the fact that the number of well-founded initiatives as a proportion of those resolved is not the real indicator of human rights protection in Slovenia. For the first time, because every person who has been violated by the authorities does not turn to the Ombudsman, and for the second time because one well-founded initiative in which the Ombudsman finds a systemic violation of human rights can constitute a violation of the rights of more than one hundred or even more thousand persons. On the basis of its work, the Ombudsman shall draw up a comprehensive and transparent report on the basis of which the National Assembly shall adopt appropriate recommendations. Last year, 83 recommendations were adopted in the National Assembly, of which only 20 were made today. As the Ombudsman points out in the introductory part, further efforts will have to be made to implement the remaining ones, especially if 71 recommendations are still being made this year. The level of implementation of the Ombudsman's recommendations also indicates that the Government does not take the recommendations seriously enough. We are concerned about the modest response of the Government or other competent authorities in Levica, and we have proposed or highlighted, as each year, those recommendations that could have a particular impact on the improvement of the situation of those with the least social power, and those recommendations that are repeated year after year and remain unrealised today. Our recommendations have been rejected by the evidence of duplication and politicisation, but let me point out again some of the most pressing problems. For many years, the Ombudsman has pointed out respect for the constitutionally defined separation of the State and the church, which is in practice poorly carried out. In Levica, we have already repeatedly warned about the specific problem of performing ritual activities in public schools. It is a violation of the Constitution and of the law for which there are no penalties. The Keeper warned of this last year, but the government warned of it. The next problem that we have specifically warned about is housing problems, two species. Firstly, despite numerous warnings that changes are urgently necessary, it still happens that a person may lose his apartment where he lives due to a small debt, or in cases where an individual is no longer able to pay rent for an apartment, or that he is sold a small debt in the execution process. The Ombudsman has been pointing out this problem since 2012, but the recommendations remain unrealised here as well. Let us also recall the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, which imposed compensation of EUR 85,000 on Slovenia for the rubble and sale of the house in the enforcement procedure resulting from a debt of EUR 124. In Levica, we also noted this pressing issue, which is closely linked to the problem of poverty, with recommendations that were in line with the Ombudsman's recommendations, but unfortunately were not adopted in the National Assembly. Secondly, the Ombudsman points out that the planned and urgently needed renovation of the residential area is stuck. The Ombudsman therefore reiterates the 2015 recommendation that the Ministry of the Environment and Space should prepare amendments to the Housing Law as soon as possible and should clearly define the obligation of municipalities to ensure a certain number of housing units per capita and to regularly publish an invitation to rent non-profit apartments. Young people who need or want to be single of their parents find it difficult to find safe and permanent employment. This means that in the current housing supply system they are left to themselves and to the disadvantages of the housing market. Therefore, because of the highly segmented and dangerous labour market, housing cannot be bought, and high rents are hoarded in the long term about possible purchases. Even more at risk are those who do not have enough resources to rent, as new non-profit apartments are almost absent due to inadequate housing policy and legislation in the past. The Ombudsman also made some important recommendations in the field of work. In the field of labour relations, the Ombudsman has been alerting for years and years, but nothing happens. Here, the problems are all the same, human and financial shortcomings at the Labour Inspectorate and lack of control over the payment of salaries and social security contributions. Although the National Assembly has adopted the decision we have proposed in Levica to ensure that the Government provides new staff at the Inspectorate, this decision and this recommendation by the Ombudsman will remain unrealised. The government has not allocated the necessary resources in the budgets under this heading, and you have also rejected the amendment of the Left, which would allow for new employment at least on the financial side. The Ombudsman has also been alerting many years to the issue of payment of salaries. There are more cases where employers do not pay wages at all or pay them only partially or do not pay social security contributions. Special attention should also be paid to children of refugees without escort. There are many children on the run who have lost their parents or have gone on their own. These children and adolescents are particularly exposed to smugglers because of their distress and their desire to come to certain European countries and represent potential victims of trafficking. Again, we have pointed out the communal irregularity of Romani settlements. Soon it will be a year before we are in the tanks that Cerara’s government has placed in some Romani settlements to solve drinking water problems, and there is no water. The lack of systemic solutions in the field of basic living conditions of Roma communities appears to be a vicious circle of poverty and exclusion. Poor or no access to clean drinking water and electricity also means poor access to education and work. The Ombudsman has been pointing out this since the year 2012 when, in a special report on Roma living conditions in the south-eastern Slovenia area, he stressed that the condition for the successful integration of Roma members into the Slovenian society is an improvement in their unsustainable living conditions. The fact that the situation has not improved in any way has also been clearly pointed out by the representatives of the Roma community who last week protested before the government and before parliament. In line with the Ombudsman's recommendations and with the support of practically the entire Roma community, the Left has proposed a law that would finally provide the basic conditions for a person's life, but the Coalition has not been prepared to discuss these urgent changes. With the poor statistics just mentioned on the implementation of the Ombudsman's reports and the lack of will, it is important that the policy, and I am also thinking of us Members, sets priorities for the authorities. The Rules of Procedure allow all parliamentary groups to make proposals for recommendations to the Ombudsman's existing recommendations. Well, when this is done on the committee, we are accused of politicising and duplicating the recommendations. It's not a double. It is about trying to cooperate constructively and pointing out those recommendations that we believe should be given priority by the authorities. And if we do this in accordance with the rules of procedure and with our programme in presenting those who elected us, it is not politicisation, but politics as a concern for the common good, so it has not been fair to detract from our efforts at this point. In fact, it is the task of all of us Members to help in some way and in our own discretion and ability to solve some of the most pressing problems that the Ombudsman has pointed out.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u13	The word shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, to her mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u14	Nice greetings, respectable colleagues and colleagues, the president, the guardian! Each year, at about the same time, the Ombudsman visits us in the National Assembly with her annual report. This time we have a twenty-two-year report of the Ombudsman or the Ombudsman on our parliamentary rations. However, while some of the recommendations have been commended and implemented in the report, some violations and unheard warnings by the Ombudsman still stand out. This year, too, the report is no shorter, although it is likely that everyone would want to do otherwise, since this would mean that we have taken a step forward in this extremely important area, a step towards better recognition of the situation leading to violations of fundamental human rights, and especially their elimination. Human rights began to be discussed far back, there in the 17th century, more precisely during the period of enlightenment, whose philosophers developed a theory of the natural state by which all people should be equal and should belong to us natural and inalienable rights. In this light, human rights do not depend on the state but are born and belong to every autonomous and sovereign individual. Such perception of human rights is a basis for universal human rights, as enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and, of course, still in force today. Nevertheless, we no longer need to define human rights in substance today, since we have taken them as logical, natural and self-sustaining. Are they really as logical and self-sustaining as we imagine? Is it logical that the Office of the Advocate for the principle of equality, which is one of the key institutions in the exercise of human rights and fundamental freedoms, still lacks sufficient conditions for action? Does it make sense that citizens are not guaranteed to exercise their rights to work and pay for their work, which means a guarantee for the exploitation of other human rights? Is it logical that the right to adequate sanitation and drinking water is still not guaranteed in some regions? In these October days, as a colleague has already mentioned before me, it has been 300 days since the Government of Mira Cerar set up in some Romani settlements in order to solve drinking water problems, and in these water tanks there is no right to drinking water at the initiative of our party, even though the right to drink water is enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The report states that the Government has consistently referred to the inadequacy of the legal basis of the Law on the Roma Community and clearly forgets that, as provided for in Article 88 of the Constitution, it has the duty and the possibility to design and propose a legal basis to enable it to exercise the duty to remedy violations of rights. The government was reminded of this duty by the guardian, but nothing has yet happened. Thus, the Government removes, quietly and unwittingly, its failure to act and prosecute human rights violations. Intervention into the basic interests of an individual is also the passiveness of the State in protecting these goods and consequently allowing further violations of human rights, so we must not hide behind the complacency of human rights, but rather the violations and situations that lead to them – we, you, all. The state must fully discharge its responsibility when it comes to raising awareness and protecting human rights. I hope and wish at the same time that the next Ombudsman's report will be shorter, and the debate will be about the steps we have taken to ensure that people living in this country live better and better without violating fundamental human rights. In the end, I'd like to mention something else that somehow stabbed me in the eye. By chance, not by chance, we are at this point today, it is true that the Ombudsman's report is true, and in the next special report of the Ombudsman, to present the views of the woman herself. Coincidence? I don't think so. I'm sorry, my colleague from a group where there are only two Members, they couldn't find a woman, and it's my turn to be a male colleague, but the rest is still on the line. Very meaningful.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u15	The word is given by the Italian and Hungarian National Communities Group, Dr. László Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Lady Guardian with co-workers, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! For the introduction of a little in this tone, as Mrs Bratušek has concluded, there is therefore a man in our parliamentary group, because we simply do not have women, so that the 2016 Human Rights Ombudsman's Report testifies to the continued progress of the Institute, which is of paramount importance in terms of human rights. [[…]] From the thematic areas covered by the report, we can highlight a social area where many forms of infringement or denial of rights are still taking place. The Ombudsman shall respond appropriately to such abuses and shall warn and propose measures in this regard. It is also important to stress the Ombudsman's concern about the still burning backlogs and inconsistencies in this area, as well as the systemic problems of the health system, most often due to grave human rights violations. At the end of the comprehensive report, the Ombudsman's recommendations, which are divided into systemic sets, are 71 in this report, among which I will mention only two matters. Firstly, it is right to propose even more comprehensive and potentially effective activities in the area of the Roma problem, because in this area, despite some progress, there are still many difficulties in ensuring the most basic rights, such as normal living conditions, the possibility of drinking water, integration into basic social flows and so on. Secondly, we rightly expect the Government to provide all the necessary conditions for the actual functioning of the Advocate of the principle of equality. In the following position, I will focus only on the problem related to indigenous national communities. In the past year, we, together with the Ombudsman's institution, have sought to systematically improve cooperation between the Ombudsman and the organizations of the national communities. In this regard, the decision adopted by the Commission for National Communities was largely implemented. Nevertheless, we believe that the specific problems of this specific area will need to be further analysed in the future, including the reasons for the passivity of individual members of the national communities in contact with the Ombudsman. It can be seen from the 2016 report of the Ombudsman that the application for infringement of rights by members of the national communities has been limited if we disregard the comments and proposals made by the competent national organisations, which is a cause for concern, since we know precisely that the infringements, such as those and others, exist. We still estimate that members of the Hungarian and Italian national communities do not mention or report violations because they are still afraid to disclose such problems because of their poor experience and past misdemeanours. Among the more prominent are cases where a member or member of the national community has been violated the right to occupy a job where the legal knowledge of the language of the national community is also determined and the inconsistencies in the use of his or her mother tongue in the course of dealing with national or local authorities. By the way, it is not yet fully regulated to provide bilingual forms in institutions where this is prescribed, even though progress has been detected in recent months on the basis of the Ombudsman's warning. Although there are no concrete data on this in the report, we can also find that national intolerance is still present over the past year, most often in the form of hate speech, which often occurs in connection with the social distress of citizens. Unfortunately, there was no clear rejection of such acts in this area. This applies not only to the Ombudsman’s establishment, but also to other subjects in political and social life in general. However, we welcome the activities or verification of the situation on the ground carried out by the Ombudsman in part in 2015, in particular those carried out unannounced in certain administrative units in national mixed areas. As indicated in the report, the co-workers of the Ombudsman with regard to the provision of bilingual operating conditions for state and municipal authorities and institutions have identified certain irregularities to which they have been alerted. Some of them had been eliminated during this time. Following unannounced field visits to the Public Administration Inspectorate, a survey was carried out on the exercise of control over the use of the language of the national communities as an equivalent official language in the administrative procedure and in the administrative operation of the national mixed areas. At the said inspectorate, they were informed of the findings of 10 controls in respect of the debtors in 2015. The general findings of these controls are that the parties' role in the language of the national communities is limited and the rights to use the language of the national community have not been specifically established. However, some irregularities in the provisions of the Administrative Regulation have been identified in the use of bilingual forms, stamps, stamps, brochures and other prescribed content. On the basis of the replies from the Public Administration Inspectorate, the Ombudsman observed that, following the adoption of the RS Government's Plan of Action for the Implementation of the Rules on bilinguality 2015–2018, the activities of the bilingual supervisory authorities were increased, which was commendable. Inconsistentities in the implementation of the constitutional principles on the public use of the language of the national communities have also been present in the past due to non-functional control mechanisms. We certainly propose that such activities continue, as it will only be possible to monitor the improvement, let us hope that the improvement and not the deterioration of the situation. It is important for us to point out in the report some of the content that we fully agree with. Translation funds, forms should be provided by the Ministry of State and not by the Ministry of Public Administration from its own resources, the Ombudsman proposes. This is very important because, unfortunately, the competent translation authorities do not provide.The subgroups to prepare the above-mentioned government plan should prepare data on how many forms were made available in the language of the national community during a certain period. In this way, the competent authorities could be more encouraged to collect and analyse data for each year. Problems are in the implementation of Article 223 of the Regulation on administrative operations governing the operation in the languages of the national communities. The third paragraph of this Article provides that all basic information and life allowances on the eGovernment national portal must also be written in the language of the national community, and at the end of 2016 the eGovernment national portal in Hungarian should have been made available 145 in Italian 150 and 200 content in Slovenian, although the fourth paragraph of that Article of the Regulation provides that electronic forms for the submission of applications through the Internet and the publication of data on the administrative services of the body must also be made available in the languages of the national community. They also found that the websites of administrative units operating in the national mixed area, namely Lendava, Murska Sobota, Izola, Koper and Piran, were not yet available in the language of the national community in December 2016. After that, luckily, the situation has improved, but it is not yet fully regulated. Finally, let me say that in the future we hope to work well with the Ombudsman, which can contribute greatly to preventing violations of human rights by members of the national community. This is why we will also support the report. Before I conclude, however, because I come from Lendava or Lendava, let me also point out the violation of human rights due to the enormous pollution of the environment in our area. Although this problem has escalated over the current year and is not directly related to this report, it seems important to me to stress and point out that such violations of human rights are very serious, the circumstances in force in the vicinity of Lendava are impossible, and therefore the Ombudsman's warning is welcome. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u17	The text is given by the Members' Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Ksenija Korenjak Kramar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u18	Dear guardian, distinguished president! The 20th Annual Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016 is a renewed opportunity for us to devote one day to human rights in the Parliament at the plenary level, even though these should be a permanent item on our agenda. From the theory of human rights and from everyday experience, we know that human rights are a cross-cutting theme that we should really consider in dealing with virtually all the content we face. This year's Ombudsman's report is still very extensive and contains a list of 71 concrete recommendations from very different areas of the realization of human rights, but the debate on the Ombudsman's report this year takes place in different circumstances, despite the fact that our legal order does not allow for the legally binding nature of the Ombudsman's recommendations, shows the seriousness of the consideration of the recommendations and the legal and actual strengthening of the role of the Ombudsman in the Republic of Slovenia. The first amendment refers to the fact that in July 2016 the amendment to the Law on State Administration became effective, under which the Ministry of Justice was also responsible for the examination and planning of the exercise of fundamental human rights and freedoms. This means that the Ministry has become the focal point for the formulation of human rights policy and for its enforcement in the pursuit of the goal of maximising the level of human rights in the Republic of Slovenia. To carry out this task with all seriousness and responsibility, evidence shows that the Ministry of Justice has published a response report on the Republic of Slovenia's 21st regular annual report for 2015, a thorough mid-term review of the implementation and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms in the Republic of Slovenia, and a response report from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the 24th annual report of the Ombudsman for 2016 submitted to the President of the National Assembly on 19 May, which we are considering today. The latter clearly shows that the implementation of the Ombudsman’s recommendations does not depend on their legal character, but primarily on the will of those to whom the recommendations are addressed. At this point, I would like to point out that, in the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, we will support the proposal for a recommendation by which the National Assembly recommends that officials at all levels take into account the recommendations made by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia in the 22nd Annual Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016. In doing so, we express a clear expectation that new and still unfulfilled recommendations from past years will be taken as soon as possible. Implementation is not necessary in order to exclude the list of recommendations, but because of the people who have turned to the Ombudsman in cases of human rights violations and in order to correct the injustices that have arisen as soon as possible and to prevent new ones from occurring. The Ombudsman's recommendations also concern the National Assembly directly as the holder of the legislative function, which is the Ombudsman himself in the legislative process. In the SMC Group, we are extremely pleased that the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Ministry of Justice on 20 September, approved the amendment of the Law on the Ombudsman. It extends the powers of the Ombudsman and allows him to move from a state institution with status B to an institution with status A in accordance with the Paris Principles. We have thus implemented a long-standing recommendation of the Ombudsman, which, together with expertise, has highlighted the need to strengthen institutional protection of human rights in the Republic of Slovenia with an institution of this status. Why is this so important? The Ombudsman's report is a thorough analytical review of individual initiatives under consideration, drawing a general picture of which the issues of human rights protection in the Republic of Slovenia are the most burdensome of individuals, individuals and in relation to which they have addressed the Ombudsman, but it cannot be directly concluded on the current state and entry into the implementation of human rights in the Republic of Slovenia. The new extended mandate of the Ombudsman allows the Ombudsman, through the Council of the Ombudsman as a new consultative body and the Centre for Human Rights as a new internal organisational unit, to take over the broader tasks of developing and directing guidelines for the formulation of the Republic of Slovenia's human rights policies. In addition to additional opportunities to promote and respect human rights, education and training, organise thematic consultations and cooperate with civil society, the Ombudsman's amendment enables enhanced international visibility and activity. In the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre, we want these institutional reinforcements of human rights protection in the Republic of Slovenia to be reflected as soon as possible in the annual reports of the Ombudsman in a small number of reported systemic shortcomings in the protection of human rights in the Republic of Slovenia. Human rights are never fully realized, as we are only approaching a higher level, and the realization of their individual violations can never be completely prevented. What not only can we do, but we must do so, is to draw attention, within our competences, to the problems of a systemic nature at all times and to the political will to solve them.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u19	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Eva Irgl.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the hour, ladies and gentlemen of the hour, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, We therefore have before us the 22nd Annual Report of the Ombudsman for Human Rights of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016. It is a matter of looking at the situation in the field of human rights and fundamental freedoms, and in particular whether the social and legal state, which we have in fact in the highest legal act, is in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. It is the duty of the State to establish such an environment so that it can effectively exercise social justice and social rights so that it can effectively exercise the rule of law and rule of law. The Ombudsman's report has undoubtedly pointed out what needs to be improved in the country in the field of human rights. The guardian of human rights must be the voice of the weak, the voice of the powerless, the voice of those who fight themselves in the path of justice, the voice of those who trust him to be just and not in any way political or biased in their conduct. The Ombudsman must pay consistent attention to human rights violations, particularly in countries that have or have a young democracy and have come out of a system that has gravely violated human rights and fundamental freedoms. The rule of law and thus fair justice and respect for human rights constitute the basis for the effective and effective functioning of the democratic procedures that we have adopted and committed ourselves to them in the formation of our country of Slovenia. Given that we are considering the 2016 report of the Ombudsman today, let me first draw attention to the key competences that the Ombudsman has as the highest authority or at least that should be in the field of human rights protection. The Ombudsman shall first protect the individual in contact with national authorities, local authorities, holders of public powers and also monitor their functioning. What does that mean in practice? This means that the Ombudsman should, with all his authority, assist an individual in a difficult relationship with State authorities and alert the State authorities to irregularities of conduct when he identifies them or identifies them in control. Why am I exposing this? Because I personally meet as a Member and also as President of the Commission for Petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities with individuals who say that the Ombudsman should not always do his job as he should, and they remind me that they expect the Ombudsman to do much more. In particular, that it will not act politically biasedly and that it will come to light when human rights are violated and when the legal state is under trial, especially in the case of evident two criteria such as Jankovic and the erasure of hearings. And here I want you, the dutiful guardian, to say, however, what you have done specifically in this case, Jankovic, i.e. double criteria, and with more than obvious abuse of law for political purposes. But more on human rights violations within the judiciary. Another key task the Ombudsman has in his work is to make recommendations to the State authorities. This means that they are submitted to a designated authority, then it is incumbent on that authority to deal with them, to respond to them and then to inform the Ombudsman of its actions. Here I have to make one parallel to the committee I run in the National Assembly, I must say that unfortunately, both the Ombudsman and we on the Human Rights Commission face too many times what I call institutional ignorance and arrogance, and the Ombudsman calls it carelessness. We face failure to accept responsibility or simply to place our responsibilities on others on a constant basis, but sometimes we only get the response of the competent institutions after more than one hour. Therefore, here I really hope that this will change and that the next Ombudsman's report will no longer point to what is in fact the basic functioning of state authorities in relation to citizens. The third key competence of the Ombudsman is that he may refer to the Constitutional Court a proposal to assess the constitutionality of the regulations or a constitutional complaint of human rights violations. The Ombudsman has been recently, and I must admit this, what has been going on in this area, has so far addressed to the Constitutional Court a number of requirements for constitutional review, but I would like to point out or remind the Ombudsman to submit a constitutional assessment request if the Slovenian Armed Forces were to be given the powers of the Police to establish order and peace in the wake of the migratory wave which covered our country two years ago. Why am I saying this now? Because I think it matters to me what the conduct of such important persons in the country is and whether they are considered responsible. I personally appreciate that this behaviour of the Ombudsman, who has thereby delayed the transfer of police powers to the military for some time, in those truly difficult and acute situations when the police were practically at the edge of their capabilities, was irresponsible and was not responsible for the protection of both citizens of the Republic of Slovenia on the one hand and migrants on the other. The right to security is one of the key human rights and today how important the good that must be protected must be safeguarded, carefully guarded, done to preserve it. The Ombudsman's exercise of human rights must be weighed and responsible in such difficult situations when security is at stake. It is the provision of security that becomes, or is, a key issue today, when both the world and Europe are, of course, also Slovenia in exceptional testing, and in such a security complex situation, is the protection of its own citizens, the care of their safety and the safety of their assets, the first task of the State, the Government and other institutions. The third key task of the Ombudsman is that the Government and Parliament can take initiatives to change laws and other regulations, and of course also in this year's 2016 report of the Ombudsman, which we have before us, we can see that the Ombudsman has been pointing out how long we have been waiting for the law on long-term care. I agree with that. Things are supposed to move now. It also draws attention to the reform of the health system, which is necessary, as well as to some other laws that are urgently needed, I will say, rewind and amend. The last most important responsibility of the Ombudsman is to carry out checks on prisons and other premises where persons are deprived of their liberty. At the Commission on Petitions and on Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, at the hearing of this report, we also invited the chairman of the Administration for the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions, and there he said that the Ombudsman had visited seven of their locations since the fourteenths, of course it is very commendable and issued more than 100 recommendations. What does that tell us? This tells us that prison conditions are far from good. We, too, receive a message to the Commission on Petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities that points to the situation. The fact is that the situation needs to be improved, and this is what we keep reminding our Commission. In Slovenia there are no doubt many people who have been violated by human rights, as the Ombudsman has already said in the introductions, in very severe hardships, in severe life trials that no one actually hears, and that is why the Ombudsman is such an important function in this country – to hear them. As is the case, last but not least, our Commission, which deals specifically with the roles and complaints of citizens and citizens. There are, therefore, many who need help, and many who have been alerting for years and years to the injustices that have occurred to them. Some of them have been really proven repeatedly even before the courts after not knowing how many years. But for what was happening in the process, virtually no one was responsible. In this country, we have individuals, as the Ombudsman has also mentioned, who have for years been in violation of the constitutional right to a healthy environment. We have individuals who have been warning for years that our justice system is not working, and they are also alerting us to what victims of justice have been. I don't want to go into political cases, but I have to say that we remember, for example, Patrio and Janez Janša, for example, Kangler, for example Magajna. I know it's funny for some people in the SMC, but the fact is that human rights have been violated here and there have been abuses of law for political purposes. And that's always something to be warned about. As long as I'm president of the Human Rights Commission, I'll keep that in mind. That is why we have also dealt with all these cases on the Human Rights Commission, because obviously we are the only body in the country that consistently warns of violations, and above all we are the body that wants the voice of those who have been violated to be heard. That is why we deal with certain topics on the Commission. Many times, too, those who come to me tell me why I am actually pursuing these things that I should not be able to move, and I answer them that because they can be moved, because with constant warning, in particular, nothing remains hidden from the public's eyes, things and conditions can be improved. And for justice and truth it is worth fighting for, although, I admit it, it is often Sisyphus' work, but in time it certainly produces such a work also of fruit. We have recently addressed a recommendation in the National Assembly, at the request of the SDS Group, concerning the abuse of detection and prosecution authorities and the judiciary. Madam Ombudsman, you have been a long-standing prosecutor, a very well-known functioning of the justice system, the fact that we have a large number of cases in this country where abuses of detection and prosecution authorities have been proven, which has led to unacceptable interference with constitutionally protected human rights and fundamental freedoms, although it is clear to everyone here that the first-mentioned authorities should act independently and impartially and respect human rights. No judge has ever been responsible for the errors made in the proceedings and for the violation of human rights, and the prosecutor has not yet responded. And here I ask all of you, in particular the Ombudsman, whether this seems acceptable to you, especially to you, Madam Guardian, as the highest authority in the field of human rights. I know you're warning me about this in the reports, too, but I think it's important to keep this in mind. In the 2016 Ombudsman's report, you point out many human rights violations to an individual or group at different social levels. These violations clearly include violations of human rights due to economic crime, today nothing has been said on the subject, because of corruption, which is a front for Slovenian society, because it stops the development of the country, because of banking crime, inefficient and unfair justice, massive violations of human rights due to violations of the right to health care due to long-term waiting lines, serious violations of human rights occur due to poverty, as the Government is not able to provide such mechanisms that would lead to a decent life for human beings. Let us go in kind, starting with economic crime, which, as has already been said, causes serious human rights violations, which, indirectly in its report, in particular in the field of labour law, is also noted by the Ombudsman, Mrs Vlasta Nussdorfer. We are talking about false bankruptcys, damage to creditors, business fraud, tax evasion, money laundering, suspicious transactions that take place through various postal collectors and tax havens. Many violations of human rights stem from all these crimes. People have to be paid fair wages for honest work, there must be no dilemma here and there must be a peak. The work should be a value, a negotiating mechanism that strengthens us, gives us energy, and because of the meager payments to workers or even the failure to pay for the work done in many cases represents only a struggle for basic survival. The Ombudsman in her 2016 report thus warns that some workers do not receive paid or social contributions, which is a disgrace to this country, which is supposed to be a social state after the Constitution. A system must be put in place to protect workers from these fraudulent employers, as well as the various frauds that are taking place and thus preserve their dignity. In such and similar cases, the Ombudsman is expected to act decisively in the face of such grave human rights violations, which are manifest in particular in the abuse of workers, in particular on the basis of an application or initiative. We need to know, once again, that the Ombudsman has the possibility, in section 9 of the Human Rights Ombudsman Act, to initiate the procedure on his own initiative and not only by waiting for the applications and initiatives of the affected individuals. But I must be honest here and say that some of the steps have also been taken in this area and that the Ombudsman has actually started, probably also because we have repeatedly warned him on our committee and also in the National Assembly that he should still apply Article 9 of the Law on the Ombudsman. Human rights violations therefore also occur because of corruption and banking crime. Have you ever wondered how we would live in Slovenia if, for example, we did not have a multibillion-dollar bank hole. Certainly many would not have been robbed of the future and would not have had a lost decade, and certainly fewer young people would have gone abroad because they do not get opportunities for work here. Human rights violations due to ineffective and unfair justice. If we want Slovenia to become a legal, social and thus a just state, that is, a country that, in fact, does not only have a declaration level, but actually respects human rights, and a country that will actually establish the rule of law, then we need justice first. This means that we are all equal before marriage, regardless of our status, political affiliation, sex, or other circumstances. This also means that we do not divide citizens into first- and second-class and that we are all given equal treatment in courts. Justice is justice that judges fairly and is not under the influence of any political option. What happened in some cases, but they are not welcome in the SMC, is a first-class scandal — I am talking about the cases that I mentioned earlier — and it shows a severe abuse of justice for political purposes. We all know that Justice is a symbol of justice – I have already spoken here at a similar meeting of the National Assembly – which is supposed to be blind, in one hand carries a scale where the arguments of the plaintiff and the advocate are weighed, and in the other there is a double sword that symbolizes reason and justice and can twist it to or against any side. But her blindness, as we all know, represents impartiality and objectivity. But given what I have listed so far — do you think we are really sticking to these principles? In my opinion, unfortunately, you can see and correct me, Madam Guardian, then of course you will be able to answer all these questions and dilemmas, even on the basis of all the above-mentioned cases of illegal practices in justice far from the content represented by the symbol of justice. The question is how we will restore people's confidence in both the judiciary and the institutions of the rule of law. This was mentioned earlier by colleagues in front of me in their views. The fact is that the reputation of justice, whether we wish or do not want to admit it, diminishes that there is no confidence in it, which 72% of people are not satisfied or do not trust in the justice system, which we can also find through petitions that we receive from the Commission for Petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities. In 2016, we received the Commission's maximum petitions and applications in the field of justice and also the Ombudsman's report reminds us of the lack of confidence in the justice system. What do citizens complain most about when we talk about the justice system? Most of the time, what we get, we say to the commission, they complain about the work of the courts, they point out the longevity of the proceedings, the specific errors of the courts in the proceedings for which no one is responsible, they point out the great problem of backlogs at the second stage, which would otherwise be the result of human resources malnutrition. A concrete example is, for example, the case of the founding wills on which the Ombudsman is a member, and here I find this very well done, very strongly reacted, and I think it is right that all of us, in fact, also demand responsibility for this situation that has happened, for so far no one has been responsible for these founding wills. Then the non-acceptability of the positions in the case of minimum sums and could still be listed. On the committee, for example, we have dealt with the case of an investor who, you will not believe, is looking for a right for 19 years. 19 years. Although they said it was a difficult judicial procedure, for 19 years the competent higher court had overturned the case four times and brought it back to trial. [[…]] I mean, do you imagine you're alone in a situation like this? [[…]] To fight for your own right, for your right, to get your trust back, you don't want to go to the justice system, and then this thing lasts 19 years? It's completely unacceptable. In his report, the Ombudsman also devotes some space to human rights violations in health care, and here in particular, I would like to highlight human rights violations due to the unacceptable length of waiting lines in health care. On Thursday, we will discuss this issue with the Commission, namely, the violation of human rights to health care, which includes an unacceptable long waiting line. Because of the abnormal system and also because of the incompetent minister of health, nearly 250,000 people in this country are being violated by human rights, as they are waiting to be examined by doctors and specialists. I'm sure every single one of us has one in the family circle, either wider or narrower, a person who's been waiting for help for a long time. I don't want to be personal, I've never exposed it, but today I'm going to say, let's say my mom's been waiting for a spinal surgery in Valdoltra for over a year and a half, and they've been renewing her waiting every time. Unresistible pains, of course, remain, even though it pays in a health check, as is paid by all others who are in such or different waiting lines. In short, this problem really needs to be solved today and now. It is also worth noting that the waiting period under this minister, which has already been twice-interpelled, has always been protected by the coalition despite mistakes and incompetence, increased by as much as 30%. I don't know – do you have your eyes closed on purpose before this problem, especially in the biggest government party? Is that what you're doing, or what? 30% more is the waiting period in health care. And then the minister says that she has done everything in this area and that the patients are themselves guilty or citizens and citizens. I will expose another very serious violation of human rights, a major problem in our country still constitutes poverty. Here I agree with the Ombudsman, who says that poverty, poverty, the lack of basic goods are one of the greatest interventions to human dignity, although human dignity is also in some way a constitutional category. It is the country that should create such an environment that people live a decent life. It should ensure social justice, which should go primarily towards poverty reduction, and today the situation is such that there are still around 300,000 people living below the poverty threshold, among whom the lowest pensions are among the most vulnerable pensioners, in particular women over 65 years of age, leading to social exclusion as well as to so-called energy poverty in the winter months. The latter, despite some projects aimed at improving the energy efficiency of low-income households, is unfortunately a major and even more pressing problem. The rise in energy prices is speeding up household income growth. This is what the so-called energy poverty, which is indeed a problem, is most faced by households receiving social assistance, pensioners and the unemployed. In the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, I have only drawn attention to certain segments of human rights violations and my colleagues will certainly point out other violations in the debate. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the Ombudsman's 2016 report as well as all the Ombudsman's recommendations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u21	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which it is mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u22	Nice greetings to all present Members, Members of Parliament, representatives of the Government, Mrs Nussdorfer and, of course, assistants to the Ombudsman! We have before us the 22nd Regular Annual Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016, which is the result of undoubtedly professional and quality work. When we read the report, we will be repetitive for several years some of the Ombudsman's warnings, indicating that there is not enough or no progress in some areas. However, we are pleased with the areas in which the country has achieved positive results. On 17 October, we marked the International Day against Poverty. Poverty, lack of goods, poverty still represents one of the most pressing problems of Slovenian society, as it is also the main problem of the Ombudsman's report. Poverty is also the worst form of interference with human dignity. Many people in Slovenia live near the poverty threshold, many of them living below the poverty threshold. According to the latest data of the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, poverty among the elderly has even increased, despite increasing economic growth. There are more and more poor older people, especially pensioners and elderly single women, too socially excluded. This points to a lack of social policy led by the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons. This problem has been highlighted by the Member Group Desus for quite some time by the competent ministry, but this does not take sufficient measures to finally reverse the trend of increasing poverty among the elderly. In the Desus Group, we must pay particular attention to the unfavourable health situation of the elderly. In addition to children and the poor, the older citizens are the most at risk, and they are also vulnerable to long, especially long, waiting lines that threaten the health and life of all generations. They also mean a violation of the patient's rights and, of course, human rights. The waiting lines of the Ministry of Health have not yet been able to bring them into an acceptable framework, although in the Desus Group we keep reminding the competent minister of this problem. Similarly, legislation on adequate health and social treatment of elderly people with dementia has not yet been regulated, the area of long-term care for the elderly remains open and unresolved, and problems in the installation of demented persons need to be addressed. We must not ignore the high share of the Ombudsman's well-founded initiatives in the field of institutional protection, since in older people's homes there is a lack of bed and staff capacity, there are inadequate standards for the provision of services, services are often not affordable to older people, and living conditions for older people are sometimes unworthy. Control of services in nursing homes is inadequate or inadequate. Despite the numerous violations recorded in the Ombudsman’s report, it is also possible to detect quite a few positive movements. The re-coordination of pensions and the lifting of the regression, which is more equitablely distributed to pensioners, and, of course, some favourable developments in the field of labour relations, should be highlighted. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights in 1948 stated that all humans are born free and have the same dignity and equal rights. Of course, it's easier said than assured. The Ombudsman should not even be required to write reports if the Slovenian State respects the provisions of the General Declaration of Human Rights. A large number of recommendations in the Ombudsman's report show that there is still a number of problems in respect of human rights in Slovenia. We are aware that much remains to be done in this area. Although the human rights situation is slowly improving, it is not as fast as we would like. The Ombudsman’s report should therefore help us to improve the situation in our society, since all our inhabitants should have the opportunity to live with dignity. In the Desus Group, we will, of course, support the Ombudsman's recommendations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u23	Thank you all very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. A discussion is under way on the report and on the proposal for a recommendation. The word has magic again. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, prepare Dr. László Göncz and Mr Jani Möderndorfer. Mrs. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u24	Thank you very much again for your word. To the previous position of the Desus Group, I would like to add a few more personal observations on the state of human rights in the country. First of all, I should like to commend the report as very transparent and informative, but at the same time I can be concerned about the fact that human rights violations in various areas are still a great deal. The non-response of individual ministries on the Ombudsman's recommendations remains a serious problem in the country. In this particular case, let me point out two ministries, namely the Ministry of Labour and Social Security, the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities, and the Ministry of Health, because the very unregulated area of work, social and health security can be the worst of people's dignity, although all human rights are of course important. The number of cases dealt with is encouraging, with a total of 4308 cases to be completed in 2016, of which 2722 cases have been completed. In this regard, it was found that allegations of violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms were justified in as many as 357 initiatives. The Ombudsman notes that most of the violations and other irregularities are due to the poor functioning of the State in certain areas. For years, the Ombudsman has failed to point out the unacceptable long-term decision on rights at both levels of administrative decision-making, while commending the centres for social work, which generally respect the statutory deadlines, but regrettably the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, which for many years in proceedings at the second stage have not followed the increased volume of work, and therefore the number of pending requests per year has increased. I hope that certain movements will also take place in this area, I know that there are human rights problems, that there are many responsibilities that the Ministry must carry out, but, of course, the Ministry is here because of the people, because of the citizens and not the other way around, which means that priorities must be set, and the protection of human rights is clearly a priority. For the first time in this respected assembly, Roma issues would also be addressed. It may also be because there are not enough positive developments with all sorts of warnings in the area of solving the Roma problem. Nor is it long since the Roma community protested before Parliament, because this community still does not have the basic conditions for living and living. For example, Roma settlements in Dolenjska are still ghettos, as the mayor of Krske Miran Stanko pointed out in Mladina. Among other things, he said that there are about 60 elementary - school Roma children in the congregation of Krško, and almost none of them attend school, although this is compulsory. It seems that the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport and perhaps some other Ministry of Roma problems are not being adequately addressed, since, as this article in Youth seems, they have not even made sure that Roma children go to school. Roma families receive money for their many children, and this should often be wasted on everything else, not on the better life of Roma children. In view of this, one would conclude that the Roma ministries are generously distributing public money, but there is no control over how this money is spent. Therefore, do not make provision for the targeted channelling of public money for the benefit of children or, for example, for the compensation of this money, perhaps for those children who are neglected by parents, which is a normal measure in developed countries when it is found that money is spent inadvertently, it is not for the benefit of children, but for example for alcohol or the like. Therefore, do not make sure that the public money given by the State to the Roma achieves the desired goals, namely to educate and train children to be involved with other fellow citizens. It is likely that the ministries of the objectives that should be achieved by means of a cash contribution will not even determine, let alone, to monitor how money is spent, nor will they act if money is misused. However, similar measures should also apply to Slovenian families when they neglect the benefits of their children, so the state and its institutions tolerate that Roma children do not go to school, remain uneducated, poor, can be raised to violence and sometimes to crime. This is, of course, the responsibility of the state or ministries that can only share public money among people, but not to make sure that it is established and that the relevant objectives to be achieved by the means concerned are achieved. In contravention of the rule of law, the fact that the communal and legal irregularity of Roma settlements threatens the realization of the human and special rights of the Roma community on the one hand, while also the realization of human rights and fundamental freedoms of citizens living in the vicinity of illegal Roma settlements. Despite many warnings from the Ombudsman, the country has not yet provided the conditions for access to water and sanitation of certain Roma settlements in Slovenia, which may also lead to a possible judgment of the European Court of Human Rights. I believe that this problem should have been resolved long ago after so many years of warning of this problem. We know that we have Roma settlements where there are no problems, but at least it is in Dolenjska, and perhaps somewhere else, this problem is still very pressing. At the same time, I would like to commend the Ombudsman for his success with regard to the constitutional requirement of the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds, which has attributed to the socially weak, self-employed in culture and in other forms of self-employment, in the event of a lack of a 75 % gross minimum wage to a fixed income and made it difficult for them or even prevented them from accessing social transfers. I am alone at the Ministry of Culture – so in discussions with the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, we wanted to address this issue, but, as we said on the other hand, the Ministry, which set these conditions, was not listening to this problem to be resolved, so I am particularly pleased that you have succeeded. The Ombudsman also draws attention to the disputed relationship of some doctors preparing professional assessments of the remaining working capacity during the disability insurance process. Their communication with the insurers has in some cases been inappropriate and results from a situation stronger in the process. This is also a problem that people keep reminding about, i.e. the inadequate relationship of individual occupational groups in the field of health, including some institutions to ordinary citizens. Let me also point out that treatment for many less wealthy is still unavailable. Despite the warnings and questions I have addressed to the Government and the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Dr. Anjo Kopač Mrak, and to Minister of Health Milojka Kolar Celarc, let them arrange, however, that all people of Slovenia can live with dignity and be treated within the framework of compulsory health insurance, ministers remain insensitive to the needs of the people. Minister Anja Kopač Mrak still believes that it is possible to spend 300 euros a month to pay this money and 300 euros a premium each month for supplementary health insurance, water, rent, footwear, electricity, food and so on, but does not say how. Minister Kolar Celarc still believes that poor people should be treated in volunteers in outpatient clinics. So the poorest are denied access to treatment from public funds. Certainly, ministers do not consider such violations of human rights. Unfortunately, the sense of humiliation and interference with the personal dignity of a person also happens to the walls of some homes for older and social institutions, where there is a particular sensitivity to the exercise of personal hygiene or to the conduct of a toilet which is an extremely intimate act. In this area, therefore, assistance in the exercise of personal hygiene is also considered by the Ombudsman to require special attention and a sensitive approach that individuals in certain institutions do not receive. In the field of healthcare and health insurance, a quarter of all the initiatives taken by the Ombudsman have been justified. As our Desus Group warns the competent Minister of Health, it also warns the Ombudsman that accessible, quality and safe prevention, treatment and rehabilitation programmes must be provided to all, while reducing inequalities and providing affordable health care to vulnerable groups. The changes are expected to help reduce waiting types, properly regulate health service concessions in nursing homes and the rights to group rehabilitation. In the context of health reform, the Ombudsman cautions, urgent pedosatric services should also be regulated and the management of psychotherapeutic services should be regulated. Regrettably, today too, the overpowered medical insurance and other lobbies, which seek only financial benefits in health care, seem to be in order to realize the public interest in the field of health. Patients' interests are back on track. Part of doctors who seek to privatise and commercialise public health use patients to achieve their own private, often profitable interests this month, for example in seeking support for a referendum on the Health Act, although this law could be used by physicians who are also warned by the Anti-Corruption Commission to at least a small number of cuts in poultry and public health could become unprofitable. In 2016, the issue of too long waiting periods became more acute, which I have already pointed out, because in this case it is a violation of patient rights and thus of human rights. Responsibilities regarding individual initiatives are also observed by the Ombudsman in public health institutions, which often do not respond at all to various petitions from NGOs, patient associations and associations, because they do not understand them as partners in solving individual open issues, but rather as a disruption in the system that causes the institution only additional and unnecessary work. This irresponsibility, I have seen it myself, even when I was leading the Movement for the Conservation and Improvement of Public Health and also the Society for the Conservation and Improvement of Public Health, i.e. total non-responsibility was on the side of the ministries, on the part of the Government, including the current Prime Minister, Mrs Bratušek, and this needs to be changed, ministries must respond to the initiatives of civil society. In particular, I would point to the problem of poverty which affects human dignity and causes consequences in several areas of life, housing problems and poor living conditions, the health situation of the initiators, the openness and accessibility of the health system, violations of workers' rights, personal and diverse stories without a specific common denominator, the availability of free legal assistance, rights from social transfers, public participation in environmental matters and environmental issues, the ineffective control system in all areas and the excessive incidence of inappropriate public servants' attitudes towards public service users. However, I would like to draw particular attention to the inadmissibility of the fact that poverty among older people in 2016 increased in 2016, with 83,000 pensioners living below the poverty threshold in 2016, 16.9% of all pensioners, most of whom women, lived in poverty for a year before. Thus, the rise in poverty among the elderly is not acceptable, but let me say further information on statistics, namely that poverty is increasing with age. If I say only data from 2014, then all those who lived below the poverty threshold were 14.5%, among those who were 15.4%, among those who were 60 years of age or older, were already higher, 15.9%, among those who were 70 years of age or older, 19.5%, of course, the higher the age, the higher the proportion of the poor, meaning something completely unacceptable, means that we are going to some selfish society where we do not have the dignity to care for age, for our parents, for our grandparents and so on. This is said to have failed by the Ministry in this area, which has not achieved those objectives which should be achieved in relation to the Ministry's tasks. Increasing poverty must also be addressed by municipalities that should devote more and more resources to housing units, shelters for the homeless, public kitchens, outpatients offering services free of charge, and to the most deprived of money. Nor is this area sufficiently under scrutiny to actually see how these issues are being resolved. Perhaps I would only point out that catastrophic backlogs in decision-making at the competent ministry of work really need to be resolved, because from the data we have received on this, we see that the backlogs are very large. Finally, let me once again commend the Ombudsman's report, including the work of the entire team, because he is certainly making a significant contribution, so that we can move towards a better, more respectful society, that human relations will be better and that we will hopefully have a more just state and, of course, a more just society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u25	Ms Marija Bačič has the floor to prepare Dr László Göncz and Mr Jani Möderndorfer. Mrs. Bachich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Respectable Guardian of Human Rights, all those present in the Hall! We are increasingly pleased with the Ombudsman's annual consideration of the report, as its recommendations are increasingly heard and taken into account, and fewer of them, which means that certain irregularities have been resolved, which is of course commendable. I am pleased that the Ombudsman has given great attention and emphasis to persons with special needs, vulnerable groups, Roma, as has already been heard, elderly and sick people. She has long pointed out the inappropriate situation in primary school with the adapted program on Ptuj and can also say that she has helped greatly to have a beautiful, light school and suitable learning area today. I warned myself two years ago about inappropriate and unsustainable housing conditions in the establishment of long-term sick children with special needs in Stari Gora. At that time, there was already a promise that money was supposed to be, but I think, a respected guardian lady, that without your help nothing would go wrong here. The Law on Early Treatment of Persons With Special Needs was passed this year, but it is known for its application. 1. 2019 means that many who have hoped to exercise certain rights will fall out of them. In addition, the law itself, as the Ombudsman points out, does not provide for the need to educate professional workers, does not address the insufficient frequency of various specific treatments, does not address the issue of personal assistance and the arrangements of escorts for persons with special needs. Further attention will have to be paid to supporting families of children with special needs, as in the primary interest of the country the aim should be to ensure that children with long-term disabilities remain in the family environment. I would also point out that families with a person with special needs after the age of 18 lose many rights, which are replaced by predominantly recoverable forms of aid. Here the Ombudsman draws attention to the schooling of students up to the age of 26, which are included in the special programs of primary schools with an adjusted programme. Here I also asked the Minister of Education a question: these students, these are young people who are involved in these special programmes – I believe that this was as one compensation because there was no room in the work centres, the programmes could be discussed, so – they are not entitled to reimbursement of travel costs. Thus, the congregations interpret this in their own way, for after 18 years they are no longer treated as students, but they are not students or students, so they do not have the right to a subsidized ticket. It is true that some parents who filed an action before the Administrative Court received the right to do so and the courts imposed upon the municipality the obligation to reimburse these costs, but “my” parents often say that they do not want to justify themselves and rather pay these travel costs themselves, which is very large, including EUR 400-500 per month. Here I would like to point out to the Ministry of Education that the Basic School Act should be amended immediately and it is added in Article 56 that it is the right to be students and to have the right to free transport to school. Here you might even touch home for the elderly, and it has already been said that sometimes we are also talking about violations of certain rights, especially in patients with dementia. It has often been warned and read in the media, even on television that accommodation is sometimes unworthy and that the rights of these patients are in fact violated. However, I believe that we are people even when we are sick and when our cognitive abilities fall short, but people and the necessary dignity. Perhaps, the guardian, you might also touch here to take a little walk through primary school. For all of us, and for some time now, we find that the curriculums for primary school, for a nine-year-old, are overcrowded, too extensive and that there are too many demands in front of children. Sometimes we wonder if the substance is intended for primary school students or for high school students. And then, because students are under such pressure, we also ask why in elementary school students are already interfering with illicit substances. The goal of primary school and all of us is that students also move a lot, but it seems to me that now that sports education is being evaluated and there is a lot of theory, movement is no longer meant for this. When students have to answer to the rules on how to stand up for volleyball, how to stand up for basketball, it seems to me that students, without being motivated by the subject of sports education, are sometimes taken away from such desirable sports education. I think there's something to be said here. Let me now touch on yesterday's topic, which was on TV at Weeknik, about jobs. It is unacceptable that due to low debts people are being deposited, and as we saw the entire family and people with special needs yesterday, it is said that a low amount of between €100 and €500 is taking their homes. I believe that there will be an urgent and urgent need to adopt a law whereby we will abolish these anomalies so that people will not lose their homes. There's a lot more that I could say, which I could commend, your report, your work, because I know how difficult it is, but I wish there were as few of your recommendations as possible that we don't really want. Thank you so much for your work and for everyone's attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u27	The text is by Dr. László Göncz. Prepare Mr Jani Möderndorfer and Mrs Marinka Levičar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u28	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Once again a nice greeting to all present! Let me reiterate and also thank the Ombudsman for her good cooperation in recent years with the organisations of the national communities, which has shown certain results or progress so far in this area. However, I believe that, in the framework of our very long-standing General Law on National Communities, this cooperation should be further enhanced, especially in the context of cooperation with the Ombudsman's competent deputy in view of the specifics that exist in this activity or in this context of ours, and I will not go into concrete terms now. In the case of a dilemma in communication between us, when we talk about collective rights and the rights of individuals, the question is where the violated rights of an individual begin and to what extent it is collective. Most of the time it is difficult to define these boundaries in communication with the Ombudsman, especially when I am talking about a system upgrade, that such content is more appropriate and that we will be even more specific on these issues. Since I have already stressed a number of things in my position, there are only two things I would like to point out in particular. First of all, I would like to point out that in the Ombudsman's recommendations 8 and 9, where it speaks of the systematic collection and analysis of information from individual ministries on the implementation of language policy measures, this is a very important matter. Once again, I would like to point out that we have given this particular warning to the Commission for National Communities, because if we see problems in concrete terms, I will say 'day', then we can approach the problems properly. It is also important to recommend to the Ombudsman that electronic forms are actually provided as comprehensively as possible, since this is some pre-condition for carrying out bilingual operations. And this is indirectly, of course, an immediate violation of the individual's right in the event that he enters a procedure and does not have such options and mechanisms. Let me conclude with the matter, which I have mentioned in particular in my position, this is an increasingly sensitive problem in the recruitment of staff in the national mixed area in the public sector. It is true that although the legal provisions are very well established and are undoubtedly in the public sphere, a number of jobs are also conditioned by the language of the national community, it is unfortunately not implemented for many reasons. The biggest problem arises when this is pointed out and this creates a strange mile in society, when some feel that the national communities are overpowering the need to speak a language in the public sphere. It's not like that. This should be highlighted in particular. There may also be a few reserves, as it concerns the activities of the Ombudsman, because in the case that the conditions for language management in the public sphere are not met, the whole promotion of the language as such is reduced and even more so contributes to the problems in this area. I would not be letting myself go now, so as not to take too much time, but in particular I think that this is a problem where there are still problems and where we undoubtedly need to find a place in cooperation with the Ombudsman when we are looking for solutions to such problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u29	Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor to prepare Mr Franz Breznik and Mr Primož Hainz.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Vice President. We are usually used to it – because, to be honest, we have the same thinking every year, especially because these reports are getting thicker and thicker. While it is for its own good, because, as the Government representative said, they are made of quality, they have some of their own sequences, some of their own logic, it is possible to understand and find some different perspectives and, of course, all the steps taken by the Ombudsman, as well as warnings, suggestions and all the rest, but with these thicker pawns, the bigger the problem is if we talk about people wanting to know what it really is – believe me, the average man will never go along with it, never, is interested. Yes, in the Government yes, here and there, some students who deal with it, who have to read it on assignment, so that they can understand and answer the exam questions or because they may ever meet in the profession in their lives, and then it ends slowly. The role of the Ombudsman is also to raise awareness and familiarity in a simple and simple way, not only with press conferences and with some estimates of the most intoxicating problems, but also to inform the population in fact. With the change of law, when it comes into force and so forth, we have the world, it has a particular task also in this field of awareness, we will see how this thing will come to life, and that this area will take on even more in that direction, which is very important to me, namely, those who are most affected, those who are most vulnerable, usually do not even know that it exists if you understand what I mean, and even less so as to understand it, and where to find everything and seek its right. The intellectuals do, but they don't ask you if they'll know their right to find out. And let's get to the point, what's important in the debate itself, and it's only right to point out a few things. I like that there is at least one representative from the opposition, because otherwise all the opposition has literally disappeared, there is no Left, there is no New Slovenia, there is one representative, but maybe he came because of me, but I have no idea, but I doubt that he is so interested in human rights, but they can say a lot about it. This always worries me that whenever we have a report on human rights, politics takes this right to not only speak and mention where the problems of human rights are, and reminds us of them, but in particular to politicise human rights and use them for its own benefit, for its ideas, beliefs, promotion and warning of what is right and what is wrong. And of course, in the end, with all the trauma and pain — who is on call to blame for human rights? State. And this unfortunate country is literally falling apart in a living body because it does not respect human rights. This is essentially the main purpose of the opposition, which is no longer at all at this stage. Of course, one fundamental point to mention is that today we actually had to back up what I said earlier, today we had a demonstration by my colleague Eva Irgle, who has actually told us how this business is being done. She came for a pay phone, said a lot about human rights, and then she said something that I have to say that I laughed heartily when I heard it. She said, "The most problematic is when we violate human rights for the weak and the weak, and these are special vulnerable groups that need to be protected." Immediately, mention who human rights have taken place, the weak and the powerless, Kangler, Janša, Magajna, these weak and powerless, who in this society must be particularly concerned to be mentioned even by their name and surname in this thick book. I hope we don't get to that. And I'm glad, thank you, beautiful nanny, that we have not yet fallen so low that we will even accept such a demonstration and officially mark it as permitted. We have one serious problem in this society, which is that when we should speak and warn about serious issues, not only where violations occur and how they are resolved, and which legislation needs to be amended in order to respect more the rights we have under the Constitution. Remember, our constitution is in fact based on human rights, and through every fifth, seventh, in fact, we continue to mention only human rights and at least fifteen articles speak directly of them. Therefore, it is not the case that we have a problem, that I will give you an example when we deal with legislation, that we always talk about any law on financial consequences, but we almost never say whether this law has also taken care of the protection of human rights. We only talk when it's alarming, when there's something very hot and exciting. I will give the case of ZUJF as a practice when the ZUJF was adopted years ago, in 2011/2012 it was only about interventions, urgency and how the country would fail if we did not adopt this law. However, no one discussed how many human rights had been violated and what rights had already been acquired with only the legislation which had reached into 40 laws. There's a problem in here. And we have a problem in individual perceptions through which we view human rights through glasses or prisms. You know, the problem is always where the opposition decides to say what human rights are. I'll give you an example, they have a kind of political agenda of what human rights are, I can't just jump out of this skin, because it has to be pointed out, especially because I'm going to have a purely concrete proposal for a guardian, which is that it's a problem for them to first grant human rights to purebreds in this country, to be more kind or, in a better case, say one such beautiful sentence, "to take care of our people first", for our people, for our people, for our people, for our people, we have a problem, because once again, we define them as our own. Although the Constitution speaks very clearly, it is very clear, unconditional at 13 and 14. To the Member for whom human rights are reserved, as far as foreigners are concerned, who live and are on these soils in the Republic of Slovenia, like all other citizens, to us who are in this room, we co-exist and create this country, each in our own field with our own knowledge and with our own decision on how to live in this country. What do I want to warn you about? That we have a constitution and we have representatives of people who create legislation and do not understand or do not want to understand or even abuse individual articles within the Constitution. And because of this perception, so diverse, then we have a problem when the report comes from the Ombudsman. If you admit to yourself, in the presentation of opinions, each parliamentary group has only mentioned those groups that they have assessed as important and valuable to mention, in such a way or other way, to draw attention to a particular problem arising from the Ombudsman's report and warning. As long as we look at it in the National Assembly and discuss it this way, we will have a problem, in fact, to continue for a number of years. We need to change the concept in our head. We need to stop asking ourselves who is ours and who is yours, but we need to start talking about what and how we are going to be implementing the law. And here we have the problem, today we have the ideal opportunity to give this proposal to the Ombudsman, to actually discuss a topic that is not actually problematic in our society right now, and that is why it is more burdensome and easy, perhaps not the first word, but rather the more convincing and unburdened talk about it. I'll talk about the fugitives. We had a problem with the Aliens Act, remember, here it was done, one for, one for, one against, all protecting human rights, NGOs were finally on their feet, the Constitutional Court was dealing with it, in short, everyone, the government was looking for solutions, how it would now bring it in and wrap it up in cellophane, so that it would be okay for all ministers and to convince most Members and so on. Something similar happened with the Defence Act when we discussed whether the military would cooperate with the police. But the problem was always the same – we had a crisis in the country, not an emergency. We have had extraordinary situations that even the Constitution actually foresees and even defines, it even tells us when these extraordinary situations, who declares them, can in one case or another if the National Assembly cannot do so, even the President. what tasks the President has when the National Assembly is set up and so on. Article 16 is very clear as far as this is concerned. But there is one small problem, and what we don't have, but some countries have done this a long time ago, and we never want to fix it, or because we are always waiting for a new emergency, and especially because in this country, you are each explaining what really is an emergency. The emergency situation is not just war, but something so terrible that in fact it is clear to the primary school that something is seriously wrong in this country. In the event of an emergency, it is not necessary for the whole of the Republic of Slovenia to apply only to certain areas. For emergencies it is not necessary that they appear only in floods, earthquakes, in the stomach, in the grips and what I know. It may be because of the general breakdown of the payment system in the country, the breakdown of the internet, that some others are falling apart today, because it has not yet happened, which is why they are calling under extraordinary circumstances. But what exactly are we afraid of in this country? We're afraid of just one trap, the moment an extraordinary situation is declared, Oops, man's steam will be threatened. And more, something else that is more important to us or, rather, I would say politics, both in the Government and in the National Assembly, but this is that we will be recognized in the world as a country where something is going on and we may lose our credit ratings, our reputation, our tourism is declining, our GDP will be reduced because of the poor economy, the exchange, in short, of all living God, I listened to the devil when we had the Aliens Act, why not the emergency. Although we have several cases of emergency announcements abroad, none of this has been experienced, but they have each other's solution, they have an implementing law on how to make an emergency situation for each area. And the problem is significantly easier to solve. As far as human rights are concerned, they are even more protected, not because they are limited, but because of the fact that, when the Constitution is very clear and more clearly implementing law, it restricts them briefly, that it must then be restored to the previous state, that even greater validity and importance of human rights, when you say so, should not be imposed permanently or eradicated, and so on, that speech is in an understandable and fairly general language. However, the Constitution still protects certain human rights, irrespective of the implementing law, which cannot be suspended in any case. You are well aware that the rights of the inviolability of human life, the prohibition of torture, the protection of human personality, dignity, presumption of innocence, the principle of legality in criminal law, legal guarantees in criminal proceedings and the freedom of conscience. These are fundamental human rights, and they do not cease to apply with extraordinary circumstances, which gives us only a guarantee that we cannot in fact say that human rights are at that point, that we can actually threaten the country only at the cost of protecting human rights. If we look at how they handled this in Europe, we have quite a few cases. On the basis of the Guide to the European Conventions on Human Rights, this is described very nicely on page 131, where it refers to Article 15 of the Convention. They mention the case in Northern Ireland, England, Greece, Turkey, personally for me, perhaps Turkey is not the most comparable in recent years, but certainly what happened 20 years ago, but every time I say so, every time an emergency situation has been established, it has been a short time and they have returned to the previous situation. I'll give you another example that's from recent history, not so much back, which is quite interesting. You all know that in Paris, when this famous attack was declared a state of emergency, but very few Slovenians or almost most, except those who are dealing with it professionally again, do not know that these extraordinary conditions have already been extended five times. Five times. Who knows? Human rights are thus no less or more vulnerable in this area. But by doing so, they have ensured that certain things can be protected rather than safeguarded. If you understand what I'm saying. And we have a serious problem, because every time we run into an emergency again, we go to fix an existing law, so that we can make something that looks like an emergency, so that it doesn't be an emergency. Remember the acorn. We have now amended the Civil Protection Act to the point that we can now do this, which, earlier because of the ZUJF, fell out, because the then government as a Islamist and bulldozer rolled all over the place, did not even know that it had deleted the conditions, which later one year later we were unable to seriously carry out some of the specific defence mechanisms in Slovenia, so that we could protect the population because we did not have a basis. Remember when the president of the state, when he didn't know when he said, "Why isn't the army on the road?" And his adjutant said to him: “Mr. President, you know, the army must not go on the road before it is asked. He's not going." But the Commander-in-Chief didn't know that, except for everyone else. For this reason, I think it is essential that we discuss in this regard, especially since at the time the Law-Legal Service, if you recall, said in the Law on Foreigners: "The Constitutional Theory considers that the provisions "of general and grave danger which threatens the existence of a State" must not be interpreted narrowly, as is the case with the law governing defence or wider, because they are harmful events which threaten the existence of a State." Then they are quoted as something, such as an earthquake, volcanic eruptions, fires, floods, epidemics or political events — internal or external attacks, terrorist attacks, mass migration, sudden and extreme inflation, recession, and all of this can be an emergency. Are we going to go back to law school just to change that? And all of this, of course, can have an impact when we introduce a state of emergency under Article 16 of the Constitution, past the beam, in the Republic of Slovenia, we have never exercised an emergency situation at all. Just because we're afraid of them. Any Prime Minister or any political option that says so is being shaken, we will now introduce an emergency situation. God forbid! The implementing law - therefore, I propose, the guardian, within the framework of the new law, there is a provision of article 50a, where we have essentially adopted a law supplementing the Law on the Ombudsman, the Council of the Ombudsman as the consultative body of the Ombudsman, acting under the principle of professional autonomy. That won't be in this term. That's not even my imagination. This is for the next term of office to prepare this Council. In the second paragraph of the third indent, it reads: "The Ombudsman's proposal addresses broader issues of promoting protection and control over human rights and fundamental freedoms." In the context of this task, we could draw up starting points and views on how and in what way the then government or whoever will prepare it, of course also some type of implementing act based on Article 16, which of course also speaks if you look very carefully at Article 15, which tells you: “Human rights and fundamental freedoms are realized directly on the basis of the Constitution.” Then he tells you: “The law can prescribe a way to exercise human rights and fundamental freedoms.” And here we have the basis for this implementing law, which, of course, could solve a lot of problems that we would not have later, of course, in fact. We just don't want that blue book, we're afraid of it in every way. But I'll close with two more warnings. I know you won't like this, Madam Guardian. You won't like it, because I already mentioned it to you on the committee, but in the meantime I went to check things out a little bit and I'm in a bit of a bad mood and until we have a chance to speak out loud, I'll always tell you that. We passed the Partnership Act. In this report, however, you mention it and say very clearly that you are pleased that this law has been passed in the meantime because it has eliminated a number of unconstitutionalities and violations of human rights and inequalities before the law. However, there are still three provisions which make all same-sex partners not equal citizens of this Republic of Slovenia. They don't have the same title, they can't adopt and they don't have the option of biomedical fertilization. Now, you know we're not gonna solve this in the National Assembly. At the referendum, it's even less because they're gonna say it's about kids right now. And then the story is over. In fact, you bear a great burden and responsibility to do this with your judgment in the Constitutional Court. I am personally convinced that the Constitutional Court will simply have to decide in the manner that most Supreme and Constitutional Courts have decided in the direction of, because it will not be otherwise. If not another – to shut your mouth to us all who think so, and to cover your peak, your back, and your ultimate duty as a guardian. There's no other way, 'cause no one else is gonna do it. And you have to judge, the acts are ready, the justifications are ready, the excuse that there are no people and resources to do so is not. If you can apply for other constitutional opinions, you can do so. They helped you, they prepared you, and you finally gave the public word to do so. The other thing that seems important to me to remind you of is, of course, another. I read your message this morning about the referendum on the Health Act. I have to say that I was terribly disappointed because I read in there, of course, this dictatorship that, if you have not received any complaints from the patients, you have to sign a statement in the infirmary and so on. I would understand if we were talking about hospitals, about senior citizens' homes, where people physically cannot go to the administrative unit, and we would even ask that it be arranged for someone from the administrative unit to come in and register this signature. But as a patient, I will not agree to this — and you know that there are direct and direct pressures. And you expect to react only on the basis of direct pressure and evidence when someone comes and says, human rights have happened to me. Now you explain to me, Madam Guardian, how the patient who expects to receive the hospital expects to receive the medicine, and expects to be cured by a person who trusts because he has no other choice. At the same time, this man, who offers him all three things, says, "Excuse me, look, the referendum is, we need a signature, they will terminate our concession, and I will not be your doctor – will you sign this?" Tell me a patient who will come and complain about his doctor who gave him a medical treatment and may even say hello if he is a great doctor. He was actually abused, abused, because he didn't even know what his right was, if he knew, he wouldn't hope and he wouldn't. And what I'm asking you to do today is not to change your mind, but to do something else to do what we're telling you to do and what you've been told to do today. You have been told, however, that under Article 26, when you are in charge of the proceedings, the Ombudsman may also initiate the proceedings on his own initiative, need nothing, no calls, no serious complaints or anything. It's people's statements and the media campaign that's happening now, not the second year, not three years from now. And if we're going to let this happen in the infirmary, believe me, tomorrow it's going to happen in schools, then it's going to happen in all public institutions, there's no more instrument to stop it, to say that everyone has the right and the ability to organize. Doctors have rights? Of course they do. Can they abuse them in their own name, in the position of their own power? No, no, no. Here's the problem. And tomorrow the teachers are going to do this, and I just hope they don't start giving the kids to take this statement to their moms and dads home to sign. If you understand what I'm saying. It just doesn't work out. And it's so easy to escape with a statement that you haven't received any official calls yet, it's unacceptable for me. But it is your jurisdiction, your responsibility and your decision, what you will do, certainly not mine. But it is only right that I warn you, as a representative of the people, that this does not seem right to me. I have this right to comment, but everything else is within your purview. So much for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u31	Mr Franz Breznik has the floor to prepare Dr Mitja Horvat and Mr Miha Kordiš. Here you go, Mr. Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Dear Guardian, distinguished representatives of the government! Dear colleague Möderndorfer, who has essentially dealt with extraordinary situations and with the Slovenian Democratic Party on the question of the 22nd Annual Report of the Ombudsman and criticised those who deal with it all these years when we are in Parliament, reminding us of the irregularities, reminding us of matters that do not concern exactly some left and right political field, but for me personally, also for my colleagues is the protection of human rights in a country that has an extremely totalitarian experience, but something that is sacred, something that is not, we can say, if I somehow illustrate, related to that bomber, where you have various candy and those candy that somehow respond to you after they offer them, take all the other candy that does not answer you, but leave it in this bomber. So I'm talking about universal protection of human rights for all of us. It is very important that in countries that are usually extremely highly developed, the slightest violation of human rights occurs precisely in the event that most individuals somehow integrate society. The potential of the people you integrate into society gives everyone the advantage that such a society can naturally develop, that no one is ousted, no one else thinking somehow is ousted. When we placed this country in the Basic Constitutional Charter on 25 June 1991, among other things, in paragraph 4, I quote: “Considering the fact that the Republic of Slovenia was a state after the constitutional regime has been in force, the fact that the SFRJ does not act as a state governed by law and seriously violates human rights, national rights and the rights of republics and autonomous provinces.” So we left the totalitarian system, where not only individuals were in massive violation of the rights of individuals, not only that individuals were suffering from badly mounted processes, in postwar killings and in a country where more than 3 million people were going through different processes, that is to say, closures and everything else. The fact is that most of the former SFRJ republics today also have a number of political prisoners' societies, that Dr. Jože Pučnik's father was a man who was imprisoned twice, and he was aware of all of this when he put up, we can say, a new Slovenian state. The fact is that you, colleague of Möderndorfer, and remained behind for someone who had already been imprisoned in the former totalitarian country, once again somehow cheered to be imprisoned in the independent Republic of Slovenia and you were here, in addition to being aware, quietly and even taking away his mandate. All of this is the fact that Slovenian modern society does not act as a whole society, does not act as a society of law, a society of respect for human rights, but as a society of respect for the rights of only those privileged people. All others who are deprived, however, are forced to rob. We're kind of coming back, after 2009, we're going back to some period in which human rights are sinking, at least in some areas. Different thinkers who believe in pluralism, who believe in the general good for the Slovenian people, in short, think differently, give other solutions, they are ousted, they are marginalised, they have no rights and institutions of this country do not work for them. To all those who spoke today about the 1948 General Declaration on Human Rights, let me tell you as an individual that you always forget to tell one thing. Before that, we had a whole range of young people here on stage, and this is also intended for them - Yugoslavia as a totalitarian creation of a communist system, a system type that immediately after the so-called liberation you are talking about killed more than 580 thousand individuals and individuals, has never been a signatory to the General Declaration on Human Rights. In 1948, Joseph Broz Tito said that the General Declaration on Human Rights interfered with the interior of the former communist state and that it was an external intervention in the former totalitarian Yugoslavia. At that time, they did not vote in favour of the general declaration, together with Yugoslavia, the former Soviet Union, the composite Communist bloc, South Africa, which implemented its apartheid policy towards blacks, and Saudi Arabia, because it did not recognise women's rights. We have come from this, and we have also been aware of those who are members and members of the Demos Group, which laid Slovenia on some new foundations, and we have also written this in the Basic Constitutional Charter on 25 June 1991. After we raised the new Slovenian flag, Slovenia took only a few steps in this area. The majority of judges who have committed mass violations of human rights have therefore failed to comply with Article 101 of the Judicial Service Act and have somehow rejoined the normal Slovenian judicial system. In recent years or in recent months, when we in the Slovenian Democratic Party pointed out this when we entered the European Union, when we got feedback from the European Union as the largest or one of the biggest human rights violators per million inhabitants, all the alarms are somehow ringing. But logically, people who have never had an item in Law School that concerns human rights, respect for human rights, or restricted you only selectively, as I said at the outset with an illustration of that candy bar, from which you only take candy that suits you by taste, and you reject everyone else, of course, is the general talk about human rights that we have to talk about over and over again. And it is because of the massive violation of human rights by the work of other thinking people, who in their knowledge want to do otherwise, that there is an exodus of young people, otherwise thinking people, who, in the Slovenian environment, also because of violations of human rights, which we do not talk about most, leave with their stomachs behind. So what's been happening to us in Yugoslavia, in what you call the soft period of Yugoslavia in the middle of the 1960s and beyond. Of course, I don't understand this soft period, but I understand a period where I have to fight with my knowledge so that it doesn't happen again. What colleague Eva Irgle said today, of course, we will support your report. I believe that you have taken a number of points of view to a large extent, but of course I have sometimes been critical when you have not responded enough. Those violations, which took place after 2008, also with Mr Janša, were the silence or partial silence of the Ombudsman in the Republic of Slovenia, which shows some fear that the Ombudsman does not take a clear position even in cases where the wife of someone who arrested Mr Janš in 1988 is in pursuit of him. This is a typical violation of the right to a fair trial, the right to equality in judicial proceedings, the right to equality of arms, as we say in law. It's something so unacceptable. Only on that, I can say, would the argument then be a sign that this is not a violation. If someone overlooks such a scenario of some political persecution of an individual and if someone overlooks what is happening today to the former mayor of Kangler, where Judge Okorek says, then we are already talking about the appellate court in Maribor that it is highly likely that Mr Kangler will return to politics and that is why he should be sentenced to 7 months' imprisonment. This has resulted in irreparable consequences, and Mr Kangler has lost the mandate of Councillor in the State Council. I am talking about actions where, for Mr Kangler, there is also someone who was a member of the infamous Judgment or the State Security Service, who has committed mass violations of human rights, today is a judge. I wonder if you have noticed this and why this is not in the regular report that someone who has been in the State Security Service can perform judicial service in the Republic of Slovenia? And not only that, this judge also participated in foreign actions, participated in actions in Slovenia and participated in actions where people were eliminated. Do you find this acceptable as a guardian of human rights? Do you think it is acceptable that this man can trigger special methods and means against Kangler, even though he is already Dr. Bosnjak, the current judge in the Strasbourg court, who represented him, somehow strongly stressed this, we can say, a total slip from some of the frameworks of a legal state where he should have been eliminated long ago. I am also talking, of course, about the violation of the Bordeaux Declaration, which speaks of the impartiality of judges and even prosecutors in such proceedings. This is a typical case. And here we need the Keeper with all his authority. The next point I would point out is repeatedly highlighted by the advocate of the principle of equality. I will, when we talk about an advocate of the principle of equality, somehow you have forced this law, which has set up an advocate of the principle of equality as a single institution in the Republic of Slovenia. Dear colleagues, today they are talking about what I have warned, including colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party, that this independent institution has little money. Why is this institution, an advocate of equality, not a deputy to the Ombudsman who deals solely with the principle of equality? He would have a complete bureaucrat service apparatus, the Ombudsman, and he could only deal with this subject. Last but not least, the Ombudsman is still part of this topic and, in my opinion and in the opinion of many, if we are talking about the rationality of a complete state apparatus, it could be completely equivalent, even with more assistance, to the service bureaucrat apparatus that the Ombudsman has in place. The employment of an institution that is ultimately headless, which lacks leverage, is a typical example of bureaucratic barriers, and, on the other hand, it blurs people’s perspective when people who are lawless somehow decide which institution will also go to in this area of discrimination in certain areas. Dear colleagues, on the other hand, reminds the Ombudsman of poverty. In particular, Irgle's colleague spoke, we can say, about a particular poverty that has never been mentioned, which can be said, is entirely her word, about energy poverty. We come in a period of late autumn and winter, many people who have miserable pensions today can't afford to even afford chicken that's hot for the whole season. As you know, usually older people need a higher temperature in their rooms, and somehow it's also medically proven. And this is where the notion of energy poverty appears. We can say this is the expression of colleague Eve Irgle, who pointed out this, we also had a few meetings on this subject, and I wish we were aware of that too. I would also like to remind you that I come from the countryside, from the areas of the Slovenian Mountains. I would remind you of some pensioners who have so-called farmers' pensions, which are about 200 euros. They miserablely live their last period of life, on farms that are mostly poor, which do not provide any additional economic income for these people, and most often they do not have income to go to homes for the elderly, because they somehow want to leave at least that poor house or part of the barn to their craftsmen, because they do not burden them by the congregation. I want to tell you that in Slovenia, on the one hand, there is great poverty when more than 300,000 people live below this threshold, and on the other hand, for people of the first league, as we say, there are all rights, there are extraordinary privileges, there are jobs in the state apparatus, which you have greatly expanded during this period, which is why these people live worse lives. What I would like to point out at the end of my speech here in Parliament today is also a case that I can confirm, when the guardian points out the housing law, the issue and the legal void in the housing law, the so-called reserve funds. Here, too, I have asked several questions from Members, both oral and written, on this subject. In Lenart, we have the case of Servostan, who robbed mostly older people in Lenart housing blocks for over 450 000 euros. We can say that this procedure of these people does not run before Slovenian courts, they are somehow insured. People in Lenart are wondering why. Perhaps because the director’s father was infamous, even a professional worker in the Maribor Udba, even her leader, and today, of course, this family is untouchable. But people remain, therefore, because there is no money in the reserve fund, these blocks of the late 1960s remain without heat facades, without those typical investments in the infrastructure of these buildings and, of course, things stand, the state has no leverage. But the people who live in these blocks have, we can say in the vast majority of the miserable pension and they're not and they can't get together this money that's disappeared from this reserve fund. As I see that these issues regarding reserve funds are not managed, there are even more reserve funds in Slovenia, I think also in Celje, Maribor, that there are major abuses. I can only say that I confirm these allegations made by the guardian in her annual report. Dear colleagues and colleagues, who are currently working in the coalition, we remind you that the housing law, as such, must be amended and such matters must come. We need to secure these reserve funds so there won't be any further abuses. Dear colleagues, I will conclude that I will not be too long. Basically, what I said, human rights are truly universal. For the Slovenian Democratic Party and for me personally, the rights of all, not only Slovenians and Slovenes, are extremely important rights of the citizens of the world. Exclusion of any group from this area can be disastrous for a small nation. I come from a party of Slovenian springs, I come from a party where Dr. Jože Pučnik and Mr. Janez Janša gave their freedom for the freedom of the entire Slovenian nation. That is why this subject of the world and respect is worth it to us. Always and everywhere, the respected guardian of human rights, you will have interlocutors on our side. What we want to say to you with our debates in Parliament is that we will always be behind you even when those who have come out of some other time will object and when they will only take candy from the candy I talked about at the beginning, that is, those violations that are in their favor. For us, all human rights violations in the Republic of Slovenia are violations, everyone is human and everyone must have the same opportunities for its development and its contribution to Slovenian society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u33	Dr. Mitja Horvat has the word, prepare Dr. Vinko Gorenak and Mr. Janko Weber. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Honourable President, Honourable Guardian, Honourable Deputy, Representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! Of course, thank you very much also to colleague Breznik for this liberal conclusion of his implementation, so that I will not have to draw attention to these things. It would somehow go a little chronologically, but little as regards the 2016 report itself, namely, with regard to the obvious, which was initially made by the Left, that their proposals were not accepted on the parent's working body. As an argument, the proposed twelve conclusions from the Left have been processed by the 18 recommendations of the Ombudsman, so of course there has been no addition of content and, of course, we did not want to interfere with the work of the esteemed Ombudsman and her co-workers. I also sincerely hope that what the nanny finally said is not true. I hope that this is not your only and final term, so I sincerely hope that, in view of the work you have done so far, and I believe that it will be so by the end of your term of office that it will provide sufficient grounds for re-election for the Ombudsman. However, I am not saying this because of the 400 pages of the report and of course the other addenda and special reports, because I have already said in the beginning that I want to be cheaper. Of course, on the other hand, I am glad that in reality they are cheaper if I take the number of recommendations that we are considering today, that is 2016, because we have 71 recommendations that are or are not. There may be a small hint here, as we know that the Ombudsman does not refer only to recommendations, but also to proposals, opinions, criticisms, as I believe was rightly pointed out in article 45 of the Law on the Ombudsman, so that, of course, he can also propose amendments to laws to the National Assembly and to the Government. I see this encouragement in this part and, of course, I also believe that, as before, you will use all the tools that you have at your disposal, so that your work will be resounding in society and, of course, in this constructive contribution to improving the situation in the field of human rights in the Republic of Slovenia. Because you know that before I get any content, I'm playing with numbers, and I'm playing with numbers this year. In this part, I should point out that 23 of the 71 so-called recommendations are in a narrower sense, and it may be appropriate to consider whether the title is appropriate. I offer you, of course, to think that maybe this final part is something else to name, because I have seen 46 proposals in it, perhaps sometimes explicitly, sometimes only the word “nai” describes what to do, either the competent ministry, or the government, or what to do as a whole. There are two requirements contained, which I think is a very serious matter and there is a need for further and specific attention. Even in words that appear a little more resilient, it must also be twice in two cases, which means that four things are one that must certainly be given priority and I believe, as in other cases, with all seriousness. Since there has been quite a lot of talk about the Ombudsman making certain recommendations again, let me say that I counted either 9 or because I have little conditioner, 11 reports where the Ombudsman is warning again, and these are, of course, those things where we said "demand" and "mora", "need" to mean 13 things here, which means quickly what we have to focus on. Let me draw your attention to something I've pointed out several times, even this time. It is extremely important to me, I understand, that any violation of human rights is particularly painful for those who suffer it, and, of course, I can criticise, on the other hand, if people are, when they meet people who think or who are being violated human rights, if they do not respond in a human way, with compassion, as I would like to say, if this is about the functioning of public authorities, that such matters need to be responded flexibly to. Not hard, not by evasiveness, not by excuses. If I give one purely up-to-date matter that is now happening to us this month in front of us, who and how, when will reply, what is the practical aspect of what has emerged as a question for the public, I have no other information than those with which it is publicly operated, either for 500 or for 2 000 students whose status is at a given moment of uncertainty and on which we have at least partially tried to remedy matters yesterday in the adoption of a special law that regulates at least certain questions about student status. I understand the Ombudsman's logic in the report and that it goes in the fields. In view of what we have heard today and in view of what we have in the marriage itself, it may be recommended that we open a special section on children and vulnerable groups. Today there was a lot of talk, even before that, colleague Breznik spoke about poverty, whether these might be issues that would be considered to pay special attention to them also through the report and the Ombudsman's recommendations on what we can do in this area. Where I started about, and if I continue to think about it now, we understand that any violation is for a person who is suffering pain. But at least what is worth doing, and of course I offer in thought and respectable guardian will also remember the working council that we had when we talked about, that it is particularly important to focus on cases where we know that there are massive violations of human rights, as also talked about by my colleague Breznik before me and what I believe, and for this I also thank the distinguished Presidents of the Commission for petitions, human rights and equal opportunities, because he is particularly aware of the massive violations of human rights, where, of course, we can also talk about certain patterns, without accidentally being able to happen to represent something that is also very important for my taste, of course, to be concerned with the Ombudsman. If I slowly move on to the numbers I spoke about, I must be pleased to find out, and before I continue to thank you very much for the special concern you have shown at last year's report, when you took the time and personally described to me on a few pages the situation and performance, because you are running out of time and, as I believe, it will also be today, a relatively slow time is set for all the questions that arise on such a sensitive and important issue, the constitutional category or what we are talking about today. So, even if I say something like this, thank you very much in advance, there is no need for special attention and a special personal response, I will understand from the action and also from your answers, of course, so I do not expect you to take a special time for me, because of course it is more important that you are engaged in your primary mission. But I am grateful for last year's reaction, because in many ways it has also illuminated to me the content that is often hidden, the very operation of the Keeper with all his fellow workers. If I go to the numbers I like to talk about. Let me conclude that I am pleased that the index of cases which were justified in 2016 is again lower than 187.3 compared to 2015, which means that this is a good one-fifth of the less-founded cases in 2016 than in 2015. I believe that, as has already been said in the meantime, that the rapid response and serious response of the current government to the Ombudsman's recommendations, to its demands and similar questions, even by thickness, because the material in the report itself is large, of course the government's response is also extensive, in grave, say 150 pages, both with regard to information on the implementation of the response report, according to the current report and also with regard to the report on the implementation of matters under the State Preventive Mechanism. In the case of unfounded cases, the same decrease was interesting, although the share of all cases was 18%. So let me say to the public that the report shows that 13% of the reasoned cases were of a total of 2 000 722 cases, i.e. 357 reasoned cases dealt with by the Ombudsman, and that 499 out of 2 000 722 cases were unfounded. In a good half, i.e. in a thousand 450 cases, there were no conditions for dealing with cases and 416 out of 2 thousand 722 were not the Ombudsman’s jurisdiction either. From this message I also wish to convey that, of course, the Keeper cannot solve everything that goes wrong in this country. We can also understand this part and, of course, it is important for the Ombudsman to deal with matters of wider importance and, as it were, with little luck in those cases where there are also massive violations of human rights. If I look at the recommendations on 77 pages and if I try to create an image of what we are or what we must do as a society on the basis of the Ombudsman's recommendations, of course, I will absolutely support the introductions and what we have at the outset under constitutional rights is our way of communication, both public and hollow, where individuals are hiding or not, where it is not an eye-to-eye communication or in public. In this regard, I think it is worth making efforts in society to create a respectful relationship with one another in our society. If I look at when it has been said that we have nothing to do with the advocate, of course this will not be true, because the Ombudsman clearly recommends with seven recommendations that the Government, as soon as possible, surely all the necessary conditions for the effective functioning of the equality body of the Advocate. I deeply believe that this will happen in the near future. If I drop a little limitation on personal freedom because we also have this contained in a special report and in the context of justice, in which it has been quite already said and I would not go into this part, simply because time will definitely overtake me, I might like to point out something that has also been happening lately, and in this part I will somehow respond to the Ombudsman's recommendation regarding environmental and spatial inspection services as well as working relations. First of all, I must commend and thank the Ombudsman for his 50th recommendation, where the Ombudsman reiterates that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia must immediately take measures to ensure a transparent, efficient and fast system of payment control, both in net amounts and in all salary-related withdrawals. Why is this of personal importance to me, and why am I deeply grateful for this recommendation? Because I believe that much of what has been said about poverty is about pensioners, who, of course, will be less able to do, and in children, that much of the problem is related exactly to this recommendation. I believe that this is a broader social issue, and this is one of those massive human rights violations that I particularly want to talk about and which I especially highlight from this Ombudsman's 2016 report. Although I do not believe that this will succeed with an inspection, that we will fail with the number of inspectors, that we will not succeed with the number of cases solved by the inspectors, but, of course, everything depends on how to ensure the effectiveness of what the Inspectors in the field of work find as incorrect, that is, the Inspectorate for the work of the Republic of Slovenia. How will we react as a society? Of course, today, when we talk about human rights violations, today, from this point of view, to ensure a decent life that, of course, can be freely and responsibly shaped, in particular in such a way as to be clearly actively involved in this society. And that is why, of course, on the other hand, all other measures or recommendations that the Ombudsman makes to ensure that people, as you well have told them in the introductions, enjoy a decent life. The issue of dignity is and must be one of the fundamental items of respect for human rights, and I do not want to say that the rest are not so important, but that we simply need to take an active approach to solving these issues in view of all the issues that have been raised so far in the debate, so that we must devote ourselves sufficiently to it and, of course, take an active approach to solving these issues. It's unsustainable for me, and I don't understand why, because I believe there is no real reason for us to have 45,000 children living in poverty. And, of course, on the other hand, today it has been pointed out where, with what little we can make it easier for people, especially if I am now and if I return to the question of education again, if I have talked more about students and little less about children, that we can also ensure to all children, in combination with their right to freedom of education, which we somehow cannot see as a child's right, but also in combination with another, with the Constitution guaranteed the right of parents to raise, to educate their children as we already have in law. But we create the conditions that the rights we have at the principle level can be written down at the constitutional level so that we can actually enjoy them in our society. Above all, as it was, if I paraphrase a little, it is already said that this will be the same for everyone. And I thank my colleague Breznik, here we have a perfectly identical view that all the inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia will be provided with equal opportunities so that we can all prosper as a society and that no talent that exists will remain unreal for such or other reasons. Since my time has run out, there is so much more, but I believe that we will be able to speak on any other occasion and that, of course, we will try to take steps in this area together to reduce the number of recommendations. I still insist on my proposal. 400 pages for everyone whose report is intended for, what is difficult reading, it is necessary to take time, so I do not know, because every year they are thicker and because they are not going in this direction, I may offer in thought, or perhaps there is no possibility for greater publicity and for greater, how can I say that it is easier for those who can and must do something in this area to be more manageable, to accept and understand the basic message where and what needs to be done more, although I understand that through the recommendations then those who deal with the matter can look at the appropriate part of the Ombudsman's report, because, let's say, I am standing in the position, as I said at the outset, I appreciate your work, your efforts, so I really thank you personally and your deputies as well as all the experts who work with the Ombudsman. A truly huge work done and a visible seal left by your work in this society. So once again, I sincerely hope that this is not your last mandate, because it would be a shame to lose such a guardian of human rights, who so widely understands matters and personally engages, and I wish you well in further work and call for further successful creative and constructive cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u35	Thank you very much. We have four more panellists to report, so I'll give you everything. Dr Vinko Gorenak has the floor to prepare Mr Janko Weber, Mr Roberto Battelli and Mag. Bojana Mursich. Mr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u36	Thank you very much. It is good that we exchange ourselves a little, so that after such a sugary talk another comes one that is different. Mrs Irgle's opening performance was also at a very high level – critical as it must be, and commendable where it must be, but of course, then the most powerful cannons there from Jani turn on to neutralize it a little. Let's just let it go. That's my comment. As for the marriage itself, only the judiciary, the police, would be touched. We will probably just end up in this area, because this is the part that I am somehow in charge of within the Group of Members. As far as the police are concerned, Mr Shelih has been dealing with this for many years, I must say that it is in this area, it must be made very clear, the state of affairs for all years, in all the reports of the guardians, the police have been treated as an example of good practice or good cooperation with the Ombudsman. The police were the first when the judiciary did not even come forward or when any Ministry of the Environment and Space did not respond to your criticisms, demands or anything else, but the police were, of course, constructive and always responded. So in this context I must say, to be very frank, in 2012, when you controlled the situation in Maribor, in those detained ones, I must say that this cooperation, or this operation of the Keeper, in particular Mr Shelih, felt good and right. As far as the police are concerned, one more thing has to be said – it is right to warn. In one part of the report you are talking about the time considered to be in detention, that is, the time when a person comes to the police station or when they bring him to the police station, here I think you should continue to rotate, that is, absolutely all the time, but not only the time that a police chief or police officer will say, but now there will be detention. This is where I'm supposed to keep spinning. Mr. Shelih, you're dealing with the police or you're working the most in this area to remind you of Ornig's case. Spin, drill, drill and drill, and you'll get to ten more ornigs, ten more, that's what ex-students tell me if you want, criminals who deal with it. The official statements of the police are, of course, completely different, at least in this case, but this is, I think, a number of such cases and more than ten people standing before the courts today or in prosecution proceedings, but that is not true, as is the case with Ornig. He's standing in court today, but he was actually a secret police associate. So it seems to me that you have to keep turning the matter around, as I would say. The second unit, of course, is the judiciary. I am now in court — what can I say? Now I have been reading these reports there since 2004, and the fact is that progress has been made today that the judiciary also responds to your criticisms, to your recommendations, if you want, and to your conclusions, as they have not, or have responded very badly. I think you've got a lot of work to do here. You refer in the report to the case of a man who was already a convicted person, although he was in fact in the process, you state a specific case, I mean this case when the court is talking about a convicted judge after 288. or 188. I don't know exactly, but he was actually an accused. In summary, negligence in the courts is still huge, huge and human rights violations, which are also taking place there, are still huge. I'm trying to understand your point of view when you say we won't interfere with open cases. I'm trying to understand them, but, look, when these procedures are over, I would still expect you to come by. I'm not just thinking about Patrio, I'm thinking about 15 proceedings against Kangler, which are legally completed, and it's not his fault, and we're going to have a full story. And I would expect you to come by and say relatively very clearly that it was an abuse. Because if in 21 criminal proceedings against him the courts find that he is not guilty under any circumstances, you know that someone had to abuse him. That's when I think you just have to answer. However, I have missed or have not heard from you in such cases. As far as all reports coming from the EU in the field of justice are concerned, mine could also be heard from there. If we're there for the last or the last or the first after human rights violations, if you want, I feel the need for your vote. I feel the need, but there's no reason to stand by. If it is issued, if there is a report at EU level in which Slovenia is terribly weak or the biggest human rights offender, then it is likely that this will not affect open court proceedings or interfere with open court proceedings, but will raise your voice. I think you need to pick it up. Now a few sharper arrows. Foreigners Act, the law is in use. You are the guardian of the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Nationals of the Republic of Slovenia. You are not the guardian of human rights of those who come to us in an illegal way, illegals, so to speak. You know very well that asylum seekers can only come to Slovenia by parachute, because otherwise they cannot come to Slovenia in a legal way because we have five safe countries before that. And yet, when we adopted these two laws in this National Assembly, you have submitted to NGOs that live at the expense of taxpayers and work in the interest of someone else, not in the interest of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, I think of most NGOs, in particular the Peace Institute, I think the representative is here, if I see it correctly. And there's someone else. These institutions do not work in the interests of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, mainly not. And it's not right for you to succumb to them. It's not right for you to succumb to this, I can't accept this. You also spoke in the introductory part about the admission of water into the constitution, the right to drinking water into the constitution. Look, it's a larifari, it's pure larifari. Tell me, which of the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia has any of this enrollment of this right to the Constitution. How many people have the state provided a water pipe, we'll tell them at home. Is she someone? None. So it was a painting of the left-wing Members who accepted it, and I wouldn't praise it. It's because the citizens won nothing on this account. As for the Roma issue, you keep reminding yourself of some things that are probably right, but try to think about the next matter. As long as we have a system to keep it hanging in the municipalities, this system won't work. Why? That's because as long as the mayor who runs the plumbing is going to do the electricity that's going to do that, that one, that one, he's going to lose the next election. Then which mayor will do it? None. That's why we have problems. This must simply go – I think you can say that too – it must go to the state level. The state must be that, in my opinion, not the mayor. Because then we'll always have a problem. I've missed you sometimes. I can't help but notice that you're driving hard on your left. [[…]] Try to take a little ride in the middle of the road, sometimes even a little to the right. Like, I'd really like to see you in the Basket with those 300 dead, those 300 people that picked the bones out there. There's a basket at Cel's, and there's somewhere else. I will not chimp you if you go to some left, I will say, partisan fairy tales listen, I will not be critical of you, but you must also be there, because there are also citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who are otherwise bone-shaped in the country because someone killed them. Even there with your presence you can do something to improve the situation in this area. I think it would be good to see you there, too. But I agree with you – the assignments, that's crazy what they're doing. And according to the Vaskrsic case we both know, nothing has changed. A month ago in New Town, the same. One woman, walk on the road for 350 euros. And then they didn't do it, but here I think you have to keep pushing, as it's called. However, I also agree with you in the area of complaints against police procedures. I think that with the help of Mr Shelih, the situation has progressed and is better year after year, even you claim that some complaints are no longer available. The establishment of a witness system in house searches, something has to be done here, because we have a very bad situation, a very bad situation. Most likely with some, I don't know, professional witnesses who will be paid or what I know how. In short, I am satisfied with the situation in certain areas or with what you are doing, especially in relation to the police. In relation to the judiciary, I think you have a book like that to write every year, because you have enough work to do, because there are still a lot of things to do. And you drive in the middle of the road, not too much to the left, because you get so carried away, then you can know, if we drive too much to the left, we can have a caramel. [[…]] It's better in the middle of the road. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u37	Mr Janko Weber has the floor to prepare Mr Roberto Battelli and the mags. Bojana Mursich. Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u38	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! In the introduction to the consideration of the report of the 22nd Annual Report of the Ombudsman, it would be based on the fact that in Slovenia we are facing increasing human dignity and, in fact, increasing differences between people. We can even estimate that around 1% of people, 20 000 people, suffer 99% of others in Slovenia. It creates a kind of false elite that builds its position on trying to exploit the position of 99 others. Why can I talk about it? Even if the introduction briefly summarizes the Council of Europe's findings, which also took note of the Ombudsman's report on human rights, where, in short, it mentions three topics, namely, the criticism of the Foreigners Act or the restriction of access to Slovenia, it also criticises the still existing problems of Roma people and also highlights the poverty that is on average in the European Union, but since the crisis 2008 it has increased significantly among children of socially disadvantaged families, older and long-term unemployed and poor, while warning: "Poverty is at the same time a cause and a consequence of human rights violations such as the right to work, food, education, health, and adequate living standards" Slovenia calls for not only to take poverty as a problem of social policy. The position of the Council of Europe is very clear and if we look at what we have done in Slovenia since the beginning of the economic and financial crisis since 2008 - we have introduced very rigorous measures because we have taken rights to people. Finally, we went so far as to even write down a fiscal rule in the Constitution and thereby destroy largely that part of the Constitution, which is based on the fact that Slovenia is a social state, in its Article 2 of the Constitution speaks about it and in Article 3 that it has power of the people in Slovenia. Both were taken by entering a fiscal rule into the constitution. So the process is going in the wrong direction, it's going in the direction of a neoliberal policy that takes the dignity of people, and that's what even the Council of Europe is alerting us to. In short, I could only point out some of the topics why this is actually happening to us and why poverty is becoming a growing problem, both between children, older people and employees who receive small wages. I think it will be necessary to discuss, in a very short time, the establishment of a level of decent pay in Slovenia and the establishment of a level of decent pension. Here we have taken a step forward and raised it to EUR 500 as a minimum, but we need to talk about a decent pension. This is the pension that also allows you a decent life in retirement. The problems that we have because of, of course, the fiscal rule is enshrined in the Constitution are, we can say, systemic nature. The first thing that will be necessary will also be to get this fiscal rule out of the Constitution. What plagues us and what we meet all the time in Slovenia is certainly corruption, which has a very important impact on the situation of people. A substantial number of resources could be raised, a significantly better situation could be faced if corruption was successfully prevented in Slovenia. We are also meeting to an increasing extent with data on money laundering and also with the flow of money into tax havens. 75 billion is estimated to have left Slovenia at the time of our independence. This is certainly an information where we should actually light up and alert all the alarms, but still by the Financial Administration, for example, which already has this data, we have no data on who are the ones who have poured so much money into the tax havens from Slovenia. If I add the sale of companies at cheap prices, it is actually a sale, and also a sale of banks where we invest a billion, we sell for 250, then of course the result is that poverty in Slovenia is increasing and that this trend is actually growing rather than being reversed. There is also a need to re-examine the problem of excessive recapitalisation of banks. When we talk about how much the financial world needs, if I call it, there's no limit, he calculated how much he needs, he calculated 5 billion, and he got it. The more we prove that this is too much, the harder we come up with data, or how it was actually calculated. One of the successes that I consider during this period of the National Assembly is that we have nevertheless adopted the Banks Act, which will allow the Court of Auditors to also review the calculation of this bank hole. But how long do we need to get this data, just confirms the fact that this financial speculative world simply allows itself too much and also has a lasting impact on the functioning of the country? One of the important details, which I am also reminding you of for a while – we have the highest late interest within the European Union. We've got eight percent interest. Someone who has a hard day to cover a month and a month will, of course, pay a lot of late interest for this, and therefore, of course, we also have problems with jobs when we are faced with the fact that, in fact, even people are homeless without an apartment due to a high debt of EUR 124. But then this apartment is sold for half the price. But all of this is actually going in the direction of decommissioning, not just the countries as such, but also as people as individuals. The next point or the last point of the last day is the Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estate. What is this law talking about? To pay the richer taxes on their property, the lower the property value. So it goes into the process of redistribution and, of course, the creation of new poverty in Slovenia. That's wrong. It is therefore right to use this report of the Ombudsman in particular to point out poverty and the situation of people in Slovenia, and a trend that is still wrong, as a concrete example of the law that I have cited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u39	The word has magic. Bojana Muršič, then comes the conclusion of the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u40	Thank you very much, President for your word. Dear Guardian, first of all, I must thank you for your prepared recommendation, and also thank all of your colleagues who are actually following us, and with this report, you tell us how we feel about individuals or groups. However, this relationship, as we have seen in this report, cannot be proud of us. That is why we must certainly ask ourselves here and follow these recommendations. True, there are fewer recommendations in this recommendation year after year, but also implementation, I must say that it is quite bad, despite the fact that this is the last report, I will say what is promising. Incentive economic growth must also affect individuals. Thus, it would finally be time for us to end the long - term savings that we have put on the brink of survival for those who have been so low, but now they are in such a low position that they are already on the verge of despair. Our reflection is also reflected in our decisions. Many times, I think you're not well thought out in the National Assembly. In the coming days, we will have a law on higher education, changes to the law, because the law we have adopted has made a reckless move that we have placed 2,000 students on the brink of social rights. And I think it was really our reckless move that we just shouldn't afford. I hope we can fix this mistake as soon as possible. We see in this report that the Ombudsman reminds us that our changes are often reckless, as well as a slow change in this inadequate legislation. Therefore, this report, which we have, which is quite extensive, covers almost 400 pages, is not a collection of good and beautiful, but represents a mirror in which we must all identify ourselves together. In the position of the Group of Social Democrats, I have stressed that poverty is shrinking, but slower than we would like. But the statistics appear to be one thing, the reality is another. The rate of poverty has further deteriorated among the weakest group, these are pensioners. A number of pensioners do not live decently with their work, which has been served many times for 40 years. In 2016, the poverty threshold of an individual was €617, which means that more than 83,000 pensioners are under the poverty threshold, as they receive a pension lower than that threshold. Compared to the year before, this number of pensioners has increased by as much as 5,000 pensioners. Among these pensioners is the majority of women who have been productive members of society during their lifetime, but today they cannot survive this miserable pension at all. Many times in the field they tell me, look, my dear, I get such a low pension that I cannot live nor die. And I'm simply wondering how to help these women as well as men. This pension also makes it impossible for many to pay for monthly expenses, such as electricity, heating, water. In doing so, I must point out that we are talking about a generation that retired after the ZPIZ-1. What happens to a generation that will retire after the ZPIZ-2, so to speak, in five, ten years? Pensions are already so low, and the foundations are much better than they are now. And we're just going to have to do something so that it won't be true that when you actually deserve a break, you'll still be looking for other sources of income, of course, if you can still do something along with it, so you can survive from month to month. If you allow me, I would nevertheless like to quote the journalist Primorski novice: “Anyone who has served hard-earned bread in the past cannot remain hungry in a well-deserved peace.” That's what I think we should be clear about. We must always remember this in the background, especially when we change anything. While there are positive steps in the area of changes in pension legislation, at least for this lowest pension, which does not have to be less than 500 euros, we have moved forward, but here, as the guardian said at the outset, we have not done the right thing, because some have also worked, I have a case when Mr 39 years and 7 months had some of the accumulated years, but simply does not get 500 euros in pension, still having a pension of less than 400 euros. I'm really worried here. So much for once. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u41	We are going to the conclusion of the debate in which the representative or representatives of the Government and the proposer, i.e. the Ombudsman, will receive them. Which one would you like first? No, the government won't. Then Mrs Vlasta Nussdorfer is the human rights guardian. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u42	Welcome back again, so at the conclusion of today's session, the distinguished President, Members and Members, who are still in the Chamber and you persisted, and of course also representatives of the Government! Speaking of the 400 pages of the Ombudsman's report for last year and the 200 pages of the State Preventive Mechanism report and all of your debates, both by the Group of Members and by the individuals who took the floor, it is certainly unappreciative to answer all the questions raised, dilemmas, praises and criticisms raised. So allow me to begin by thanking you for everything you have said in the beginning, after all, it may also be some kind of indicator for our further work, because any idea that has been well-intentioned can also be an improvement of future reports. As you can see, we have already changed the reports in these years. Thus, the third chapter, which was a little bit drier and represented our institution, has been put first, so that everyone who comes in and starts reading our report can first determine who we are, what we are doing, how we are dividing individual areas of work with us, including, of course, all the numbers that are mercurial for the past year and even past years. In a way, we are already trying to bring all our readers and readers closer to our work. Of course, some, perhaps even shorten individual cases, but anyone found in the report, anyone who is treated in confidence, of course, would like this part to be specified and not just moved to a few sentences and might become less important. Therefore, some of the topics in this closing act would have been touched because I failed at first. It has been repeatedly said that, of course, the Ombudsman is intended to read the rights of the weak, the children and the elderly mentioned. True, we also gave children a special chapter. As you know, we devote a lot of attention to the children of the Ombudsman, and the Deputy is, after all, also the Head of Defence, so he led the advocacy when there was a project, leading from last Saturday or 14 days ago when we had it under the new law. So in the field of children's rights, we are extremely active because we think this is very important, because children are usually in cases where their rights are violated, alone, and society must be even more attentive to them. We also pay particular attention to the rights of other vulnerable groups. As older ones, we are finally preparing additional meetings for them, attending the Festival for the third life period, numerous round tables, meetings, including with the Alliance of Retired Societies, so that we are also well aware of the situation in this area. Of course, there are people with disabilities, we meet all kinds of people with disabilities who come to us or to us or to us during the year to alert us to problems, so we have already written some recommendations on this subject in recent years. We talked about poverty more than once. It is difficult to expose it in a single chapter and say, this will be a chapter on poverty in our country, for poverty is certainly entering very different areas. It can result from violations, as we have heard from labour law, which can therefore result from the situation, when someone is retired and receives a low pension, he can be an additional sick person, a disabled person, only has a disability pension. Poverty is therefore also read throughout the report. Every year we write so many recommendations, including criticisms, but I must say that the whole report can only be a recommendation if you read it like that and if that is how you understand it. Of course, I must also touch on the backlogs mentioned at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, which I have not specifically pointed out in the introduction, but we would like to say this to myself, and this also follows from the report, that they are absolutely reduced, because such large backlogs, in particular in some areas of the Ministry, are unacceptable for people waiting for a solution to the complaint, and in some ways the counter has disappeared, which has shown at least the foreseeable time of rescue or the number of complaints at the Ministry. The next issue is the area of discrimination. It is discrimination, at least so mentioned, of believing Christians, specifically exposed by Ambassador Dimič, who presented the position of New Slovenia. Here I must say that I have responded in writing and I have also explained to you that these critics, so that the Ombudsman can treat Christians differently from all other religions, in no way can we accept the Ombudsman. That's how we reacted in all the cases we've been given. The MP herself had already mentioned the case of the capitol when it came to vandalism and we immediately condemned it. I even met with representatives of national radio and television, who warned me, especially on the radio, about the lack of religious programming. Changes have also been made here. I must say, however, that the initiatives that might be expected and are repeatedly mentioned in this area are not concrete, nor are we taking, or would we have responded. I myself took part in this spring in the meetings of the large families with a specific Member of Dimič. I spent almost the whole day with them, and also with them when I was teaching about human rights, I said: “If you think they are broken, call me back, tell me, the procedure is confidential with us, and if there is a widespread violation, I will certainly respond appropriately.” So I think we're not making exactly any differences between faiths. Faith and believers have the same position. If anyone comes to our door and feels injustices and if these injustices are even more widespread, then we respond, not least to the letter number 73 of our report, on which you can read, what does the Ombudsman say, how to respect freedom of expression and faith. I therefore deny that anything in this area would be in order to receive my initiatives and treat them selectively. I do not recognize selectivity in any field and neither do it. We answer every question. The area of the national communities. I am pleased, Member Göncz has responded and also said, indeed, given what we have heard from representatives of both national communities, Italy and Hungary, we have even found out on the ground at the Ombudsman's meetings of the national communities whether and what is wrong. We also have two recommendations: bilingualism is important, and we agree. As has been said, we will, of course, be even more careful about how this is applied to employment. I believe this will be the subject of this year's report. For when we wrote last year's report, our work in these areas has not yet been completed. Member of the SDS, Mrs Eva Irgl has highlighted an up-to-date case which, of course, is not the case in last year's report. It concerns two different approaches, which it has also highlighted, which is currently on the table. The guardian closely monitors and also examines this. The talk was about institutional ignorance, carelessness, the slow responses of institutions and institutions such as the Ombudsman and also such as your commission, and we also criticised that. I must say that we have made progress when I have brought these problems to the President of the Government himself at the meeting and also to the Secretary-General of the Government, so that we are now doing much better. If there are answers and our affairs at a ministry, perhaps those who turn to them, we should also give serious warning. There was also a requirement for an assessment of constitutionality in relation to the military. Here I must say that because of our work, because of our demand, absolutely no one was in danger, nothing stopped, no protection of people. We just wanted the Constitutional Court to verify what happened. The decision was fair, so we did as we thought it was right, without pressure, even though they were, but I immediately rejected them and warned them of our independence. Similarly, pressure to make a request may be either to step down or not to file or to withdraw. I believe that we have done the right thing, as the two separate opinions of the constitutional judges who gave such an opinion show, and that the new law on defence even takes these into account, and we have, not least, been to the Minister of Defence, and we have had a frank discussion about this. Surely we are also proposing different legislative changes in various areas. Of course, we have neither the opportunity nor the time for active cooperation for all laws adopted here. We work together after we have received a certain piece of legislation in the opinion, in particular in terms of human rights protection, and in particular in the area of justice, we are extremely active. The supervision of judges shall be carried out. I must say that even we were responsible for having been given special control, I think that two judges in particular, including sanctions, were justified controls. We always stress that the judiciary is not untouchable, that there is a need for supervision. As you know, it is not only the longevity of court proceedings in some cases where they can be alarming, but the causes can also be very different. We also note, of course, the necessary quality of the trial, that things do not return and thus extend their hands, but that at the level where they come in, the appeal will even be resolved, if possible. Of course, our warnings are also valid in the area of all economic crime. It should be known that the prosecution's prosecution has a policy of persecution. The new Attorney General has already set up his policy of prosecution. Here are the law enforcement and prosecution authorities. The Ombudsman points out the need for us to be consistent in all these persecutions also with regard to bankruptcy, including how many people, due to wrong decisions, also because of criminal offences, are in a much worse situation, not only in the material field, but even in the personal, health field, we have been monitoring major human crises. As far as working relations are concerned, I must say that we have devoted so much attention to this area that we have recently issued even a special bulletin, we have prepared a round table on whether the work is worth looking at, where the fair payments for the work are being done, and we have found a number of irregularities to which we are alerting, and as has been said, many are actually wondering how it is possible, where people who know must be able to exploit those who work for them without pay, but sometimes only paid contributions, which can prove to be very critical when people want to retire, are older, burned, and have no opportunity to do so. So, as we say, justice is part of our intensive control. As you said, we have dealt with established wills, and we have observed both violations, which the Keeper may particularly warn, a violation of justice, because the will of the prodigal has not been respected, and of course a violation of good governance, because there is no good governance if wills stand somewhere. I must say that the President of the Supreme Court, who recently visited us, Mr Floriančič, has also promised to control the duration of the proceedings. During his visit, he visited various courts in Slovenia and promised to be particularly vigilant in this area. Health care, I've talked about it, I can never get past it. Surely, people who are still, as you yourself said, complain that waiting periods for some, especially interventions, are absolutely too long, that everything is too money-bound, that if you had money, you would be in front of the privates, you would have better and better teeth, but you could not afford them. The problems of physical therapy, the problems of paying psychotherapy, especially in children, are not acceptable, that after various abuses and events their parents still have to pay to recover from mental illness. It is also necessary, I have not talked about this in the introductions, but I hope that we will experience a short pedopsychiatric section, which must therefore be open to urgent problems. Bachič also touched a number of hot topics for children with special needs. We visited the old mountain, then we were promised a renovation. If there's anything new and we didn't know if we knew about it, of course, parents or anyone can tell us. It seems important to us that we are aware of where the congestion is, or where it is not yet arranged, that is when they even promised us the restoration. We know the problems with children with special needs between the ages of 18 and 26. As the Ombudsman and the State Preventive Mechanism, we are also devoting ourselves to homes for older citizens and, as I said in the introduction, to the area of dementia. Here we have become so exemplary, encouraging to others we have become the first dementia-friendly point. I hope it gets better in this area. Posts – the Ombudsman’s constant concern that people should not be assigned was repeatedly mentioned by different Members for smaller amounts. An amendment to the Law on Enforcement is being prepared. It is urgent to help people who have been in the past before such a service before they are even in debt to such high sums that it results in a work, and that a home is not the only option with which to sell at the price of a person. Of course, Mr Göncz, who has returned, has drawn attention to two of our recommendations, including with regard to employees and bilinguality. I would now like to touch on those which he has opened and also point out to Mr Möderndorfer what our report is. I know it's fat. I have mentioned several times that I myself would like it to be cheaper, that cases could also be shorter dealt with, as I said in the introduction, sometimes it is very difficult to write them, because they are actually so extensive that I write them very briefly. Certainly, our new institution with the Human Rights Council will also be able to raise a number of questions that will be of a broader nature, will not go to the new Ombudsman, because the Council must be established by 1 June 2018, i.e. in my mandate, and will certainly have at least one session and we will be able to talk about many things already. We have also seen that the rights already acquired are often abolished in the past. If you remember, it is precisely as far as ZUJF is concerned that we have alerted the Constitutional Court, which returned 26,000 pensioners with a decision or a request for a refund of the part of their pensions. So, we've found that many things happen, that those rights that have already been acquired are later taken away. As far as the proposal for refugees is concerned, I have responded to the new legislation and the world. As far as the same sexes are concerned, as I said on the committee, the matter is not over for us. Today the Deputy is a percentage and is studying the matter abroad, and we know why it is, even unfulfilled demands, that is, same-sex in all three matters that you have highlighted, so the story is not finished. You even talked about the referendum and in health care, this is not the subject of this year's or last year's report. You were upset by the statement that we made just a few days ago on our website, we even wanted to, we got the initiative, but we wanted to be on top of us, because we're sensitive to procedures, we turned those who are being violated, we wouldn't expose them, but we would know how their rights were violated. It is possible as you said, so the impact, because you are weaker as a patient, but of course we have warned that the way to meet the requirements of the referendum is also quite long and that it is not necessary to introduce them to a doctor where you have received either desire or direction to go along this signing route. That is why, of course, we are still waiting, and that is why we have made such a statement that we urge people to come to the Ombudsman from the circle of anonymity, it is not necessary to expose themselves to a particular doctor, it was only a proposal from the Ministry. On the other hand, there has really been no initiative in these few days. Then Mr Breznik spoke about many things, about justice, about the case that the Member of Parliament was also talking about, and we also met with the Committee 2014 as well as 2015. An example of a house investigation that was not in place in one of the cases under consideration in Maribor was also included in the annual report. Proponent of the principle of equality, as has been said, were proposing to find his place with the Ombudsman, but it is an emergency of his independence, incompatible with the Ombudsman's work, even given that he controls the private sector and not the public. That's why we had a lot of talks with the competent ministry, and I'm glad there was a final solution. The Ombudsman points out, of course, that he must also have opportunities for his work if we have a marriage, otherwise the law is only on paper. There was also a discussion by Mr Breznik on housing funds, managers in the area of Ljutomer. I would like someone to present this to us or send it to us, for we are very attentive to this area because we find that there are many problems on it. Of course, I thank Mr. Horvath for everything he said. There's been a lot of praise, and I can see that he's always focused on numbers, and I was worried that there's something wrong, but they seem to be working and they're okay. Of course, at the end of the day, when we write a collection of recommendations, it's all a little bit because of the pervasiveness. For a while, we wanted each recommendation to start the same way, but we found that it might be very spiritistic and so we adjusted it, or we demanded ever more harshly when we repeated the recommendation. So I'm happy with everything, the areas of mass violations, you've been talking about social issues, about children, about the rationale of initiatives. It is certainly difficult to define reasonableness or unreasonableness here at times. A certain matter would be justified if people might still step in and report to us. It is difficult to say that if they have not taken advantage of the legal path, but we know that they are probably right and that is why there are no initiatives yet, it is not yet a condition for consideration. Then, for some, where there are many violations, let us also note that several times we could write that something has been violated or even in one case more violations of rights. Even the computers of everything we want with the Keeper, when they can't. But thank you for all the really well-intentioned comments, all of which you have also provided with regard to inspection services, salary control, that is also one of our priorities. Mr Gorenak praised the Deputy, the real area of justice, the police, we are working very hard here. Police are responding. Of course, some cases, I have already repeated twice, which he has pointed out, we are dealing with. As far as the judgments of the European Court of Justice are concerned, I must say that we have also dealt with such cases, which have ended unfavourably for Slovenia there, before. Even now, such matters are a matter of Shilih. I cannot agree that the Guardian has no jurisdiction over those with us. Therefore, it was certainly the right decision to go to the Constitutional Court with the Law on Unsaved Foreigners and the Law on Defence. We have not succumbed to anyone, on the contrary, if anyone has demanded, we have maintained our independence. We decide when we think it's right. Water in the Constitution – I think you have accepted all of this in the National Assembly, so I see some really symbolic gesture, but water is important and therefore I would not underestimate this entry into the Constitution. But it's important to make sure everyone has the water. The Roma and the inhuman situation were also mentioned several times, and finally the Neros. We are working hard to keep them truly independent and independent. And my ride, although in the middle, as we know, is not allowed on the road, is certainly the one that takes all directions, all people, equality of all. Because you said you would repeat your mandate – I think one for such a function, which is very responsible and difficult, is probably enough. I think I'll have to close soon. Mr Weber has touched on many other topics that we also have in common, warning us about poverty, about all the problems of pensioners and many others, and this has also brought Mrs Muršič to a good conclusion, which she again warned not only as a representative of the SD Group but also as a speaker herself, about many topics that still touch the Ombudsman and his work. I'm going to finish because I can see that my time is almost up. Thank you. Luckily, I took all 30 minutes. I would only appeal to the fact that in times that seem to be better, you should never take rights, but rather respect all the rights that have been acquired, the hard-earned. This will also bring about the desire of many that our report may be shorter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u43	All the debaters you wanted got your word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? Yeah. Then I'd like you to sign in. Dr. Jasna Murgel has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u44	Thank you very much. I'm sorry if anyone thinks it was too much to say. I think we need to see what we can do here in the National Assembly and what the Government can do. The first point the Ombudsman has pointed out is that it is necessary for an advocate of the principle of equality to provide sufficient resources to effectively carry out his function. We have already talked about the fact that there may have been a mistake at the start, when we made this law, that we had foreseen too little resources for it, and now this problem is drawing its attention. We certainly need to pay more attention to this. One thing that touched me very much and for which I did not have enough time to deal with it is the issue of eliminating discrimination in the transport of disabled students. Here we run with what happens to us many times in this country. The problem why we cannot now adopt or amend legislation is inter-sectoral cooperation. Believe me, I've seen something like this. Earlier, colleague Bachič mentioned the Early Childhood Treatment Act with special needs that this is now a problem because it will only be implemented 2019. Yeah, but you had a chance, and you'd have accepted it sooner, and you'd have made it work sooner! But even in the making of this law itself, we had a lot of problems in drafting the law in this inter-departmental coordination, and that is precisely the responsibility of the state, the whole apparatus, to ensure this cooperation. You know what? Students with disabilities really don't give a damn about how we're going to coordinate here within the government. This is a constant rakrane in the preparation of laws that affect different areas. And of course, people with disabilities, children with special needs, reach out to the areas of education, health care, education, and then many times, we are running out of time to negotiate and settle an area. And maybe there has to be someone who insists on pushing these things forward, but I think we really need to do more here. Perhaps another thing that has been mentioned and needs to be highlighted is the duration of unresolved proceedings with complaints at the Ministry of Labour. I also think that this is unacceptable and that we may still have to think about adopting any law that would regulate the procedure specifically before the centres for social work, because it is a special, specific procedure, which is problematic enough to say, to apply the Law on General Administrative Procedure, because it is, however, a different life situation and for which the Law on the General Administrative Procedure may be too severe. I think we still have a lot of room here to work on the content of regulating social rights, social rights, and that, even though it is a process, but here we are trying to do something if we have already done something to reorganise social work centres, perhaps to adapt in this area. If I say so, it takes a very long time to rule on criminal charges in certain cases. It's the prosecution's responsibility. We tried to do something in the Criminal Procedure Act, in change, in the novel, but failed because it fell for some other reason. But here, of course, I agree that we must do more so that these matters do not arise. The area in which I have the most affinities, where I am also the most engaged, is the area of child protection with special needs and early treatment. We are also in the country, not only to speak ill of, we have started implementing a pilot project on early treatment of children with special needs currently under way. But here, after the initial birth spasms, is the very good cooperation of the three ministries. That's an easy case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u45	Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u46	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Guardian, thank you for somehow summarizing some of my views and something from my debate today. Of course, you would, since there is likely to be a misinterpretation of the case of the abuse of the so-called housing fund. It was in Lenart, it was Servostan, it was also presented through the media, I think on national television. In one account of a limited liability company, this company managed housing and trade; the reserve fund money was used as some kind of trade asset; trade came into some unexplained problems. When it started in one of the large buildings in the centre of Lenart in the market for the liberation of the facade, which cost more than 100,000 euros, they found that suddenly there was no money. Then they even found that there was no money, that the company had already spent money on fixed costs a month, which means that it did not pay for total electricity, total water, waste and the matter flowed into some kind of forced settlement. The responsible persons are not yet, as far as I am aware, dealt with in a court of law. It's a typical fraud. On the other hand, in these blocks they are mostly pensioners with low pensions and, of course, they will find it difficult to get this money together again so that they can make a facade. This means, not only that they do not have an aesthetic facade, but, of course, they have once again higher fixed heating costs, what I have said before about so-called energy poverty, which is particularly attractive in older people. Since I am still speaking and I have three minutes to remind you, somehow I can also stress that I agree with the problem of not paying wages, contributions that are still this pressing problem. I was alone one of the few Members who once met people who came from other countries and served fairly in the Republic of Slovenia and were left without income, publicly excused, although I was not guilty of anything, but I believe that most Slovenian citizens are honest, but it pains me that even some Slovenian entrepreneurs did not pay to those people who worked, we can say, as slaves in Slovenia for miserable incomes, that they were left without everything. This was a problem a few years ago, I think it was from the previous term of the previous guardian, but still the pressing issue is due to inspections, work inspections, which were insufficient. We, Slovenia, always have a start, we set up an institution, we end up running out of money for those people operating on the ground. Therefore, we do not implement any legislation definitively and that this legislation, if breached, is not immediately interrupted and produced in court. This is this problem, this Slovenian model, why this legal state does not work and why, in my opinion and in the opinion of many citizens, the country is not fair. For some of the evidence is destroyed, but some of the smaller people who are deprived in this society are never found for their rights. Third problem, I would point out, is, I agree with colleague Murgel, disabled students. The problem is that we recognize their status, and colleges usually have special treatment for these students, which we can say hello to. Of course, the problem of transporting these students, we think that in a smaller population such as we have Slovenians, that training some people with limited mobility is very important for Slovenian society to have some positive discrimination for these people. I think they deserve all the attention and even the marriage solutions. If the Government prepares them in this mandate, I will be happy to raise my hand and confirm them. Finally, I would like to remind you of the issue of psychotherapeutic matters, as you mentioned in your report. I think it is important and there are more and more of these diseases in the Republic of Slovenia. What's the hottest thing we're going to have this week at a board meeting with my colleague Irgl, is an abnormal medical waiting period. It is not only a matter of waiting days, the problem is that, due to the waiting times, many citizens decide very late to visit a doctor and we have a lot of mortality in some chronic diseases, which is also due to long waiting periods because people do not find the right time to wait for these things. So much for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u47	This concludes the debate. The amendments to the proposal for a recommendation were not tabled. We will decide on the proposal in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 19th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 25. At the time of the day, this is to the defence of a special report by the Ombudsman of Human Rights of the Republic of Slovenia on human rights violations of human rights by persons with a spiritual disturbance in their illegal establishment and defence in protected sections of social security institutions with a proposal for a recommendation. The Ombudsman submitted a special report to the National Assembly for its consideration. I give the floor to the Ombudsman, Mrs Vlasta Nussdorfer, to further explain the special report. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u48	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Members, Members and other guests invited! For the first time in my mandate, I have come to the floor for a second time today because we have submitted a special report this year on 5 September. When does the Ombudsman submit to the National Assembly a special report on a particular problem that is difficult? When this thing doesn't work out in any way and it's been a long time. As you know, after the adoption of the Mental Health Act in 2009, we have already begun to receive comments that special social welfare institutions, four of them in Slovenia, are too busy. These problems have not been solved. When I became the guardian of human rights myself, we found by visiting these institutions that there were a number of problems everywhere, and that people were difficult to place on these special departments of social protection institutions under special supervision, even unwittingly, by judicial decisions, because there were not enough places. However, we were not only approached by representatives of these institutions who were in great difficulty, but also initiated procedures themselves because they felt that it was not well for the persons who would be accommodated to be disturbed, or their personal dignity, the safety of both those who lived there and, of course, those who were employed there. Cases have even come before a court and whenever the case has been brought before the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court has decided that the decisions of the courts must be respected, so for those persons who have been arbitrarily settled, a place must be found. With the Ombudsman, we wanted to resolve the matter even with a press conference last year in one of the social welfare homes, specifically in Lukavaci. There was a great interest in the media in visiting and attending this press conference. The whole of Slovenia was flooded with images of completely inappropriate spaces, people were inhabited either by the Paravans, in the living rooms, in short their right to security, to dignity. That didn't help either. Despite the Ombudsman’s efforts and warnings at both the press conference and later, the courts continued to warn us that there were many problems. And since things have not been resolved, we have decided, this time the report is really brief, but it is one topic to present on the 30th page also images of how these people's rights are protected, and it is, after all, unfair that the accommodation that is unwitting, compared to the fact that you do not pay anything in prisons and even pay their property here. So it's about people who need special attention because they have a severe mental disorder. It's probably hard to imagine how these people can be taken care of by workers when they have so many people in a facility like this. And that's why I was happy to have an immediate response. The matter has also been dealt with by the Commission on Petitions, together with our annual report, very quickly, even in the Council of State and I am pleased, although this is the first time that there are as many as two reports in the National Assembly, that you will also deal with this today, and I hope that appropriate recommendations will be adopted, and that it will never be the same as it was, but better, without violating the human rights of these already marked persons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u49	The report was addressed by the Commission for petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities as a parent working body and prepared a proposal for a recommendation from the National Assembly. I give the floor to Mrs Eva Irgle, President, to present the Commission's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u50	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Madam Guardian of Human Rights! At its 18th meeting, the Commission addressed the Special Report of the Ombudsman on Human Rights Violations of Persons with Mental Impairment in Their Involuntary Circumstances and Treatment in Protected Divisions of Social Security Institutions for Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities. First, Mrs Vlasta Nussdorfer, the Ombudsman, received the floor. She said that it was a 30-page report, which was extremely important, and its content concerned only one issue, namely human rights violations of persons with mental disabilities, which were involuntary, i.e. by a decision of the courts established in special welfare institutions. She added that the Ombudsman rarely decides on a special report. This is done when it finds that the reports or recommendations it makes are not implemented In a specific case of particularly sensitive persons, where, of course, persons with mental disabilities belong. The Deputy Ombudsman added that the situation in this area remains critical, as has been found on the basis of the visits they are making. Preoccupation also affects the quality of implementation of the programmes. Any new accommodation that exceeds the capacity of the protected section shall be made worse by the housing situation. The Ombudsman is aware that such detention constitutes a serious breach of human integrity and that it is the State which should ensure adequate accommodation. She then received the word of a representative of the Government, who pointed out the complexity of the issue under consideration. Such accommodation was provided for those for whom the court decides that they must be accommodated in protected departments. Cases have been tried with soft methods, in communication with institutions and courts, and there remains a major problem with lack of space. Then came the representative of the Ministry of Health, who added that this problem must certainly be resolved, in addition to the establishment of a new institution, it will also be necessary to consider standards and norms, particularly human resources. This is a special group of people who need appropriate treatment. The text was also given by the representative of the Supreme Court and then by representatives of the Community of Social Institutions of Slovenia, who initially thanked the Ombudsman for pointing out this problem, which they have been pointing out for several years. He believed that it was the systemic carelessness of a government that did not want to address the problem created by the two reckless changes to the Mental Health Act and the Penal Code. These amendments were not followed by an appropriate amendment of the sub-laws so that social security institutions could properly deal with these people. The situation is deteriorating and the state should take care of accommodation and funds as the founder of the institutions. Afterwards, representatives of individual welfare institutions were given the floor, among others, pointing out that their population is one of the most vulnerable groups, that problems are solved by renting houses where these people live, the results are good, but there are still very poor conditions in institutions, so of course they expect the assistance of the country here. As part of the debate between Members and Members, it was agreed that something must be done quickly, now and immediately, on this issue. The representative of the Government concluded by stressing that the State must allocate the appropriate resources, but not modify the regulatory arrangements. We have legislation, money and personnel must be provided. Work materials were then put to the vote, this is a draft recommendation, a proposal for a recommendation which was unanimously adopted by the members and members of the Commission. Therefore, an integral part of this report is a proposal for a recommendation prepared by the Commission as a working body and addressed today by the National Assembly. The recommendation is as follows: »The National Assembly recommends to the Government that it prepare as soon as possible amendments to the Social Protection Act and the Mental Health Act and adopt measures to ensure that persons with mental disabilities are better sheltered and treated in the social health institutions under the provisions of the Mental Health Act. However, pending the adoption or implementation of the new regulation of this area, the National Assembly recommends that the Government provide adequate spatial capacity in social security institutions and sufficient staff to provide adequate social security services.” Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u51	I give the floor to the representative of the Government to present the opinion. Ms Martina Vuk, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Guardian, Honourable Deputy, Members and Members of Parliament! The procedure for involuntary housing of persons in social security departments was introduced in 2008 by the adoption of the Mental Health Act. The purpose of this law was to systematically regulate four forms of mental health treatment for persons with mental health problems, and they are dealt with in a community controlled, treated, treated in a department under special supervision of a psychiatric hospital and, as a last resort, treated in protected departments of welfare institutions. The problems arising from the law arise on the one hand due to the failure to establish all types of treatment to the extent necessary, here I am thinking mainly of the failure to establish an adequate controlled treatment that should be established as a network throughout the country, and the other problem arises mainly from the placement of persons after the completion of a mandatory psychiatric treatment measure in the UKC Maribor Forensic Psychiatric Unit and persons after the end of imprisonment with the worst forms of mental health disorders. However, a further increase in the need for accommodation has also led to an amendment to the Penal Code, which reduced the measure of compulsory psychiatric treatment from the previous 10 years to the current 5 years, by explaining that these persons continue to be treated in accordance with the provisions of the Mental Health Act. The Ombudsman's report states that, of course, it does not specify the appropriateness of treatment and measures, but points out that the existing legislation is in force and needs to be taken into account until changes to the system enter into force. Of course, that's absolutely true. However, it is true that Slovenia is one of the few EU Member States that does not have a regulated area of specialized integrated treatment of persons who, due to the consequences of mental illness or the worst forms of mental health disorders, are so dangerous to themselves or others that they cannot be integrated into the community because of exceptional behavioural specificities. Due to the large differences in the individual needs of other residents and residents of special welfare institutions and persons who, due to the consequences of mental illness or of these worst forms, are no longer in a position to provide adequate professional treatment for themselves and others. The Law on Mental Health has therefore determined quickly, but inadequately, the installation of the said group of persons without laying down other necessary conditions for the establishment of such a system, such as the content of specialised treatment, human resources, spatial and other standards. For these reasons too, the Ministry of Health is preparing an amendment to the Mental Health Act. In recent years, however, a number of activities have been carried out with regard to the installation itself following the decision of the court. A list was published publicly on our website on the capacity of protected departments of social protection institutions, several consultations were organised with all stakeholders, cooperation with community hearing coordinators was encouraged to accelerate discharges from institutions for those who do not need to stay in institutions, but are able to provide assistance and treatment outside institutions, organize expert excursions for judges in the Hrastovec Institute and in the forensic department of the Maribor Psychiatric Hospital to establish mutual cooperation and to understand each other's work. Individual problems in specific individual accommodations are always resolved individually, with the aim of ensuring the best possible treatment. In 2016, a government working group was set up to establish a specialised unit to address people with the most serious forms of disorder, and the aim of this working group is to establish a system to address shortcomings and irregularities so far. The review of practices abroad shows that the system, as we know it in Slovenia, is unique and that the current regime needs to be changed. It is therefore a proposal from the Working Group to establish a separate treatment of persons in whom there is a recurrence risk of a criminal service. Both the government and the individual ministries are dealing with the problem with the awareness of its urgency, both in terms of the arrangements for appropriate treatment for those persons with the most difficult forms of mental health problems, as well as in terms of the regulation of the situation for residents and residents in the specific functional protection institutions, and not least, but also very important, in terms of the regulation of the situation for all employees in these institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u53	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr Zvonko Lah, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u54	Dear President, Minister, coworkers, colleagues and colleagues! The Ombudsman is not often given the opportunity to prepare a specific report on a particular area or issue. This time it is decided that this report fully relates to violations of the human rights of persons with mental disabilities who are unwilling, i.e. by a decision of the courts established in special welfare institutions. The reason for the Special Recommendation is, according to the Ombudsman, that their recommendations for this area have not been implemented to date, while there are significant violations of particularly sensitive persons, including persons with mental disabilities. These persons are systematically violated dignity despite the adoption of the Law on Mental Health. In practice, implementation of this law is extremely difficult. The Ombudsman, however, firstly exposes the overoccupation of protected departments and its consequences. The housing situation of these persons shall be worsened for all residents in any new accommodation exceeding the capacity of the protected section. They are often accommodated in the hallway, in the dining room or in a common living room or in another double room. The Ombudsman points out that overcrowding creates poorer opportunities for implementing mental health programmes for residents. For the first time, the Ombudsman pointed out the problem in the 2010 annual report. The situation has not been regulated to this day. For the sake of the said New Slovenia Group of Christian Democrats, support the Ombudsman's recommendation to take the necessary measures to ensure that persons with mental disabilities are accommodated and treated more unwittingly, and in the short term provide adequate spatial capacity and sufficient staff to provide adequate social protection services.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u55	The word is given by the Left Group, Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, Madam President. This year's Special Report of the Ombudsman refers to violations of the rights of persons with mental disabilities in their involuntary residence in protected departments of social security institutions. The Ombudsman started receiving first warnings of human rights violations in 2009. These warnings concerned the overoccupation of these institutions and the lack of personnel. The Supreme Court has also, with numerous letters to the competent ministries, pointed out for a number of years the pressing issue of overcapacity of protected departments of social security institutions. This is a problem that needs to be addressed as soon as possible. In a special report, the Ombudsman shall disclose the reasons for the failure to respect human rights and fundamental freedoms of persons with mental disabilities as part of their accommodation and treatment in protected departments of social security institutions. It is a matter of non-voluntary housing and detention, which in itself constitutes a serious intervention in rights and freedoms, and it is even more problematic that violations of the right to personal dignity and security, which, or should be protected by the Constitution, are taking place. For many years, people have been imprisoned in institutions that are in no way suitable for this, which, of course, violates the dignity of detained persons while at the same time endangering the safety of other guards and personnel. The regulation of decent conditions is an obligation of the Ministry of Labour under the Social Protection Act. The Ombudsman constantly draws attention to these problems, but the ministry, which is run almost all the time by the same person, Anja Kopač Dark, Social Democrats, does not resolve the situation. It's a multi-year problem that the ministry simply doesn't solve. The Ombudsman pointed to the problems already in 2010, i.e. 7 years ago. The Ombudsman notes that there has also been no improvement in 2016 in this area and that the response of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities to all the problems encountered was inadequate. In this regard, the Ombudsman also highlights the problem of young people with mental health problems, which are often placed on adult wards. Last August we received a letter from the Supreme Court addressed to the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs entitled “Requirement to provide additional places urgently in protected departments of social security institutions”. The courts are obliged to travel to such institutions because they cannot leave them on the road while they are aware that the situation is catastrophic. In this letter, I quote again: “We believe that according to the information we have available, the situation of protected departments of social security institutions is seriously threatening for the security guards who are stationed there. Under Article 43 of the Social Protection Act, the State is obliged to provide an appropriate public service network. It is unacceptable that it does not do so and thus directly endangers the safety of individuals, staff of institutions and the power of judges to take decisions which, in such severe circumstances, mean weighing between their greater and lesser risks. We therefore call on the competent Ministry of Labour to take immediate action." Today, we certainly need to adopt the proposed recommendation calling on the Government to address the systemic shortcomings in this area as soon as possible and to ensure that the necessary capacity and personnel in the social security institutions are immediately provided.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u57	The word shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, to her mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u58	Nice greetings to everyone in the hall again! Today, I have already talked about the passivity of the competent authorities in eliminating violations of fundamental human rights or the situation leading to violations, as well as the other report that we have before us, speaks precisely about this. As a result of the deteriorating dream in social security departments, the Ombudsman decided to inform our National Assembly of the situation with the Special Report of the Ombudsman. Such a report shall be decided by the Ombudsman when there is no progress in a given area despite warnings and recommendations. So it's a really alarming situation. The Mental Health Act passed a new law in 2009 on non-voluntary housing of persons with mental disabilities in social institutions, and it is the responsibility of the State to enable residents to stay and receive adequate treatment. The very involuntary housing of a person in this institution constitutes a major intervention in his or her right to freedom and the protection of mental integrity. It is therefore unacceptable for this vulnerable group to face a lack of housing capacity at the time of their accommodation and thus with additional interference with their privacy. Accommodation of individuals in hallways, in living rooms and even in dining rooms does not guarantee the minimum standards of a decent life. Other residents, employees of institutions and, last but not least, judges and judges who decide on accommodations with the knowledge that the departments to which they refer are highly overstretched. The fundamental principle of the Law on Mental Health states: “A person shall, at the time of consideration, be guaranteed the protection of his or her personal dignity and other human rights and fundamental freedoms, individual treatment and equal access to treatment.” It is sad that the issue that we are going to discuss today has been brought to the attention of the Ombudsman, the institutions and the judges and judges since 2010. It is even sadder that nothing has moved in this area. The fundamental right to the protection of personal dignity remains on paper too many times. We will, of course, support the recommendation in our Group of Members, but there will be no change from this recommendation alone. So it is also necessary to approach the realization as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u59	The text is given by the Members' Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Ksenija Korenjak Kramar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u60	A respected guardian, a respected president, a colleague and a colleague! On the parliamentary benches we have the first special report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia in the mandate of the current Ombudsman. The report deals with the subject of violations of human rights of persons with mental disabilities in their involuntary residence and treatment in protected departments of social security institutions, as highlighted by the Ombudsman’s 2016 regular report. We are grateful to the Ombudsman and her co-workers in the modern centre Party Group for preparing a special report. Through a thorough analysis of the legal arrangements for the treatment of persons with mental disabilities, a visual outline of the problem in practice, and recommendations for the special report to be included in the plenary session of the National Assembly and to adopt a recommendation to the Government for further action, the Ombudsman shall contribute to the visibility of this issue and to the accelerated efforts to address it. In the multitude of problems we face, we can quickly overlook or neglect to give sufficient attention to the most vulnerable. The Ombudsman's voice is particularly decisive in such cases, and I believe that in this case he will also come across hearings with us in the National Assembly and with the Government to further strengthen efforts to find the most urgent and also long-term systemic solutions for persons with mental disabilities who must receive special protection and protection. The existing legislation for such persons also provides, without their consent, for admission to a protected section of the social security institution on the basis of a decision of the court, while the problem of over-occupation with protected departments arises practically from the start of the implementation of this measure. Since such accommodation remains practically the only way to implement sectoral legislation, we are dealing with a seemingly hopeless situation that threatens the right to personal dignity and security of social security residents and the rights of employees. In view of the established case law that the spatial and human resources capacities of social security institutions are important, but not a decisive factor for the judicial action taken by the protected department, the situation also puts pressure on judges and judges who have to decide in cases of accommodation to overstretched institutions. It is clear from the response of the Government and the debate we have held on the Commission on Petitions and on Human Rights and Equal Opportunities that the competent authorities are aware of the issue and have already approached its resolution. In addition to measures to alleviate the unsustainable situation for a short period of time, a Working Group on the amendment of the Law on Mental Health has also been set up. On the basis of the Special Report of the Ombudsman on the Commission, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia recommends that it take both short-term and long-term measures to address the problem of infringement of the rights of persons with mental disabilities in their involuntary residence and treatment in protected departments of social protection institutions. In the Modern Centre Group, we will continue to support this recommendation in a unified manner today with the expectation that the Government will see in it an additional incentive to ensure that the complexity of the problem is effective before us as soon as possible and to respect and strengthen human rights; therefore, that it will take effective, human rights-based measures as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u61	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Eva Irgl.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u62	Again, thank you very much for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Special Report of the Ombudsman on Human Rights Violations of Persons with Mental Impairment in Their Involuntary Circumstances and Treatment in Protected Divisions of Social Security Institutions is extremely important, as it points out the inadmissibility of human rights violations to persons with mental disabilities and it is right to treat them with all responsibility and care. The Ombudsman rarely decides, as we have already heard today, to issue special reports, in which case they have decided with the Ombudsman because of the significant violations of human rights, since such detention constitutes a serious breach of human integrity and dignity, and the State is the one who must ensure adequate accommodation. We have therefore also considered the report on the Commission for Petitions and on human rights and equal opportunities, where the opportunity to explain its view of the inappropriate situation in social security centres has also been given to representatives of these institutions who face the problem of housing persons with mental disabilities in their institutions directly and every day. These pointed in particular to some kind of systemic carelessness of the government, as they stressed, which does not want to address the problem created by the two reckless changes in the law. In 2008, the Mental Health Act established a special procedure for the involuntary accommodation of persons with mental disabilities in protected departments of social welfare institutions with a view to addressing and caring for persons with mental disabilities in the field of mental health. The Ombudsman warns that the Mental Health Act should ensure that persons with mental disabilities in cases of involuntary housing do not suffer from a violation of dignity. Unfortunately, practical examples do not reflect this. As a fundamental principle, the legislator has laid down that every person with mental disabilities must be protected by the protection of his or her personal dignity and other human rights and fundamental freedoms, individual treatment and equal access to treatment, and that the Club finds that in the accommodation and treatment of persons with mental disabilities in protected departments for various reasons of their human rights and fundamental freedoms, violations are not respected and violations occur, in particular infringements of the right to personal dignity and security. The fact is that the departments are over-occupied, making the situation particularly unsustainable for employees. This has also been very plasticly illustrated by the Commission on Petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities, where we Members, members of this Commission, have actually been able to face for the first time what the real situation is in this area, and I am therefore grateful that we have received this report on the Commission and that we have also addressed it. However, there will certainly be a lot more to be done so that we can say that some progress is visible. Thus, these unsustainable situations have been pointed out by various institutions, including us, the Commission, from the Community of Social Institutions to the Supreme Court and, of course, the Ombudsman. It is therefore right that the Commission has adopted a decision for petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities, which has also been aligned with the Ombudsman, to prepare as soon as possible amendments to the Social Protection Act and the Mental Health Act, and to take such measures as will begin to address the unsustainable situation for employees and, on the other hand, to protect the dignity of persons with mental disabilities. We will, of course, support and hope for the best in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u63	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs Marinka Levičar is responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u64	Dear guardian, colleague and colleague, hello! In addition to the 22nd Annual Report 2016, the Ombudsman also submitted a Special Report on Human Rights Violations of Persons with Mental Impairment in Their Involuntary Installation and Treatment in Social Protection Services. Let me remind you that the Ombudsman has previously been addressing these violations since 2009. It is precisely because of the failure to implement the Ombudsman's recommendations and due to the large proportion of the well-founded initiatives for the placement of persons in security departments under the Mental Health Act that the Ombudsman has now issued this special report. He is informed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia that the ministries are, in fact, deaf to his recommendations and that despite his warnings in social security institutions, serious human rights violations have continued for many years. The report deals with the accommodation of persons with mental disabilities who are placed in special welfare institutions. This is therefore a problem which has been pointed out by the Ombudsman for many years by the competent Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. A detailed review of the State preventive mechanism showed at the beginning of 2017 that in all protected sections of the social security institutions there are several persons living in the home, such as officially designated facilities. With the adoption of the Mental Health Act, there have remained unresolved human resources standards and standards in social welfare institutions. As already pointed out by the Ombudsman, the State has made it possible for persons to be admitted to protected departments of social security institutions by law and is therefore obliged to take care of their decent living conditions, proper treatment and treatment, and to fill the human resources deficit in the protected departments. There is also a need for urgent changes to the Law on Mental Health, where there is a cross-cutting issue, for mutual cooperation and the integration of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities with the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Justice. However, it seems that the interaction between all these ministries does not go as well as it should. In view of the content of the special report, it can be concluded that there are urgent changes in this area, the protected departments are occupied through their capacities, and it is unacceptable that the practice of placing persons in non-resident rooms is unacceptable. Persons in protected departments have long been violated the rights of personal dignity, privacy and security. At the same time, social security institutions are no longer able to carry out their work properly due to overcrowding. The spatial, human and technical conditions in these departments should therefore be regulated. The long-term closure of competent ministries against human rights violations in protected departments of social security institutions is certainly unacceptable. In the Desus Group we will certainly support the Ombudsman's recommendation, hoping that these recommendations will also be implemented.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u65	The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, a magi for her. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u66	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear guardian, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Social Democrats, we will recommend to the Government that measures be taken as soon as possible to accommodate and deal with persons with mental disabilities more appropriately. Mental health concerns are one of those areas that require increasing attention from year to year, both from individuals, families, health personnel, politics and society as a whole. The Keeper also warns her. In the last periodic report, it highlights in particular the problem of the lack of access to pedosatric treatment and the lack of regulation of the provision of psychotherapeutic assistance. In particular, it draws attention to violations of human rights of persons with mental disabilities in their involuntary residence and treatment in protected departments of social security institutions. The Special Report is the result of the Ombudsman's multi-annual warning of the incoherence of the situation. These are due to overoccupation and have been detected at the beginning of the application of the Mental Health Act. As you know, in 2008 the procedure of involuntary accommodation was established in protected departments of social security institutions and has been regularly alerted by the Ombudsman in his annual reports in recent years. The Mental Health Act in Article 3 provides that equal access to treatment, individual treatment, protection of its personal dignity and other human and fundamental freedoms must be ensured in the treatment of each person. However, as the Ombudsman warns, the conditions for this today, at least for the treatment of persons in involuntary housing and treatment in protected departments of social security institutions, are not met; even more, the situation is unsustainable. The number of persons in protected departments of social security institutions exceeds spatial capacity. The increased number of residents are not followed by a greater need for human resources. It is difficult to imagine the dimensions that the individual householder has for his life and for the employee to place new tenants in completely inappropriate spaces, such as hallways, joint workplaces or even dining rooms. We wonder whether, under such conditions of work, we can even hope for any positive outcome, which, after all, should be the objective of such institutional treatment. Government representatives announced the establishment of a special institution on the Commission for Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, but it was clear that it would not be established soon, so I expect that, in agreement with the social security institutions already proposed, their immediate realization will be ensured. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u67	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members on the special report and on the proposal for a recommendation. The text is by Dr Mitja Horvat, to be prepared by Mrs Iva Dimic and Mrs Marija Bachič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Guardian, Honourable Deputy, Representatives of the Government, Dear Guests and Members of the Coalition! Apparently, the opposition has left the area. I don't know why. I have to say, as has been said in the introduction, that the situation, especially after we heard about the real problems in social security institutions, shocked me. I don't really know how to describe the situation and the many years' efforts of a respected guardian in this area, but everything shows that you are one of the nicest people I know in my life, that even when you represent such terrible things, it turns out to be much more friendly. In short, we cannot be aware of the depth itself. Therefore, in this part, if I am quite full of suggestions today, recommendations for further action are to be made, sometimes it is necessary to give a little more firm warning. I know that's what you've been alerting me to with the press conference. I know that you have made a special commitment to this issue and, of course, we have a special report from the Ombudsman before us. If I continue to give you a careful and detailed look, then you will find that the report on those beautiful images of places where praise and thanks goes to all those who care that social protection institutions, especially those in the Republic of Slovenia, are well arranged, but do not show the reality of the situation that has been pointed out by representatives of social welfare institutions. In any case, perhaps one small hint is back into the question, including a picture of the reality, of the situation that we were familiar with at the Commission's meeting on human rights petitions and equal opportunities. You also know that I have expressed and repeated today; the recommendation that we accept today is something that has encouraged me to think whether it has not actually been a recommendation that you have formulated yourself and has then been modified in agreement with you, or whether it is not more benevolent to those who have to do something in this area. Indeed, you have given a good warning in your recommendation that measures should be taken, action should be taken, laws should not be amended. Although I can understand that even with the change of law, a question can be resolved given that we have 9 years of practice in this area, rich experience and, of course, no number of meetings, instead of something being done. Of course, we also have a response, a response report to the recommendation or to a special report, from which it is very clear what we really need. But if I use the words of my esteemed colleague Matjaž Han, my dear 8 years, 9 years, nine budgets and we are still talking, and we still have heard today that it will be difficult to realize and satisfactorily resolve the situation. But we are not talking about anyone, we are talking about people; we are talking about people who have special needs that need to be addressed individually and today we are talking about a whole range of human rights that are, of course, threatened by the situation or the situation that exists, not to say too many times. In order not to be a proposal, let me make it very clear that it is for persons who are not there because they have the desire or will to stay in social security institutions, what the Ombudsman has warned about at the outset. It is necessary to provide the means and basic conditions for being in a social security institution, meaning that financial resources must be provided for the provision of care in these social security institutions. I doubt that most of these funds are actually being contributed by the persons who are resident there, but I believe that they are, in any event, the funds we provide from public funds. I did not go into the depths of this case, and I did not want to talk about money, although it is a very, very important question for the situation or recommendation, a special recommendation we are talking about. We need money and we need staff, we also clearly need adequate accommodations; that is, three basic conditions, all related to money, the resources to be provided. For all the billions that we have provided in the last nine budgets in this area, I do not accept any excuse that money could not be found in all these years to provide staff and adequate housing. Finally, let us not forget that they are not voluntary, the company has created mechanisms on the basis of which these persons are established by decisions of the state authorities, if any, then I believe that decisions of the state authorities must not only be respected but also enforced. As I have said about the issue that I am central to the recommendation that for me at this time the issue of human rights violations in the field of labour law between workers and employers, and where I need or want effective decisions to take place, and that these decisions begin to be implemented, I also expect in this area, of course, primarily from the relevant competent ministry, to take immediate action to remedy this unsustainable situation. Clearly, in cooperation with other stakeholders, as we have also heard from the predecessors, from the basic presentations of the positions of the parliamentary groups, when we are also warned by the judiciary for seven years. Here there is a need for dialogue, here we need to find the right solutions and, of course, not all of them are ultimately placed on persons who are in need of special protection by the decision of the state authorities established in social security institutions. Of course, it is necessary to ensure that there are adequate living and working conditions for all stakeholders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u69	Mrs Marija Bachič has the floor to prepare the mag. Tanja Zink, and then we move on to the final part of the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u70	Thank you, Mr. President. Once again, everyone, welcome! Dear Guardian, thank you all for taking up this special report on human rights violations in the involuntary placement of persons with mental disabilities — in the cases you have presented to us, the problems faced by social security institutions. They are faced with too many protectors with various problems and diseases, lack of space and professional staff. However, a major problem arises when people with mental health problems are placed in social institutions that are already so crowded after the mandatory psychiatric treatment has been completed. Here, the well-respected guardian, you point out a number of unsustainable situations and irregularities in the installation of these persons. You're talking about lack of adequate space, lack of staff and lack of professional treatment. However, this situation cannot be a vacation for all you state. Putting such persons in inappropriate spaces, hallways, dining rooms, common spaces is unacceptable and here is a violation of human rights. Imagine that a person with such severe mental and behavioural disorders is placed in a corner of the dining room, separated from the common space only by a cover. How does such a person react when the guards come to lunch when they chew with the utensils, talk or even laugh? This would certainly upset any sick person, let alone a person with mental health problems. Surely this will upset him to the point where he reacts inappropriately, perhaps even aggressively. We can imagine how frightened and innocent the guards, who have the primary right to stay in social security institutions, may have reacted aggressively to a patient who has been unwittingly disturbed by his peace. All those who know about the treatment of such persons know that such persons need peace and as few distractions as possible, disturbing things as possible, not to be disturbed or reacting with inappropriate reactions. The room he's staying in is supposed to be bright enough and spacious enough without any extra special equipment. We read from the report that there are security guards employed in some institutions, appointed by guards who are not trained to work with such persons. And what does that mean? If we look around the neighbouring countries a little bit, we can see that they have this properly arranged. The Mental Health Act came into force in 2008 and since then the Ombudsman in his reports has always pointed out the problems of the involuntary housing of these persons in social institutions. Here I see the problem of violation of Article 3 of the Mental Health Act, which stipulates that every person must be given protection of his or her personal dignity, human rights and freedoms, and individual and equally accessible treatment. The Ombudsman notes that the situation is unsustainable. The institutes are overcrowded with guards and face a lack of professional staff. Persons do not receive professional team treatment, not psychiatric, not psychotherapeutic and juvenile patients, nor pedopsychiatric. The treatment should be team and continuous. Thus, persons with mental health problems or demented patients or persons with mental disabilities deserve decent, human accommodation and professional treatment in the 21st century. All are people, however sick, who deserve a decent and dignified life. Slovenia is regulated by the fact that, despite the existence of a threat to the criminal service, a person is dangerous to himself and others, placed in a special social health institution, a uniform and is not comparable to other countries, so it is necessary to amend it as soon as possible. Therefore, we must all work together to ensure that all necessary measures are taken as soon as possible to ensure that persons with mental disabilities are properly deployed and treated as unwillingly as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Tanya Zink, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u72	Dear Vice President, Guardian, Government representatives, dear colleagues! Today we are discussing the Special Report of the Ombudsman concerning violations of the rights of persons with mental disabilities. The Mental Health Act, which was adopted in 2008, has established a special procedure for the involuntary housing of persons with mental disabilities. This law, although guaranteed at the declaration level, can be said to be the highest legal or professional standards for the institutional treatment of these persons, but it is obvious that this has created a new problem because social security institutions do not have sufficient capacity in protected departments to actually ensure such a standard. Therefore, the law as such cannot be properly implemented. In fact, this situation reminds me very much of the institution of contacts between divorced parents with children under supervision, which courts can quite rightly pronounce as often as they do, since contacts are the rights of both children and parents and are always desirable, although under control and because it is envisaged that such contacts are carried out at social work centres, it is often that the centres do not have any spatial or sufficient human resources for this. So it is a very similar situation when someone easily puts something on paper that endures everything, as we like to call it, but someone else cannot do it for such or other reasons. If I return only to the area of involuntary housing of persons with mental disabilities, these are things that will also have to be adequately addressed. Finally, it has been a pressing problem since 2009 and 2010 and the extreme situation has already been said by the Ombudsman to alert us to the problem with a very special report. Most likely the solution will not be the government of this mandate, but it is only right to draw serious attention to the problem, we are aware of it, because we cannot postpone it to the future, but we must start to solve it. Modern trends in the treatment of persons with mental disabilities are, of course, going towards deinstitutionalisation, i.e. housing outside institutions, but unfortunately this is not always possible, and at this point what we have is the only possible solution under existing legislation, but cannot be implemented at the expense of violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms, which is essential. Moreover, such a time for such treatment must be as short as possible, and I hope that when such a measure is put forward, it is also indeed the last option. Although I have concerns about the fact that so far it has occurred at the time of the accommodations to date that there has been a violent behaviour of residents, which has resulted in damage to the householder or the inventory, and I wonder whether such a person, from a health point of view, is properly accommodated in a social security institution. However, only based on these facts can we understand the principle view of the Supreme Court, which considers that the spatial and human resources capacities of the social security institution are important, but not decisive, and I understand that, of course, at the outset, this person, who will be accommodated in the social security institution if there are legitimate reasons for this. According to the report, even a large proportion of such cases are detected in most district courts. In short, the area needs to be fully regulated as soon as possible, i.e. by providing suitable spatial, human, technical capacity in the field of social security institutions – and yes, this is not only a problem of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, but must be approached in an interdisciplinary manner because it is an extremely complex and multi-layered issue that requires more cooperation and coordination now. If I conclude somehow, we are obviously too weak to find solutions right at the cross-cutting level, where we should seek more coordinated and informed solutions, especially faster, especially when it comes to such a sensitive area as dealing with persons with mental disabilities. I believe that the task ahead of us is not easy and not easy, but it is necessary and must be addressed as a priority. If I came from my own experience, I wouldn't have dared to blame myself absolutely for the situation. If you have listened carefully to my debate, I am asked whether it is a social security agency, even though it is a special, suitable accommodation for a person who is so obviously in danger of the safety of his roommates and staff. What do I want to point out? It is essential to look for solutions that will be multidisciplinary, of course also coordinated, which will only be able to be comprehensive and, above all, appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u73	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the debate in which Mrs Vlasta Nussdorfer, the Ombudsman, gets the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u74	Honourable Vice-President, honourable Members, Members of Parliament and invited guests, representatives of the Government! Today we have heard firm opinions on our proposal. You've all come to know our special report, which is very rare. It is therefore now necessary not only for good will but also for cooperation and for rapid action. Of course, the Ombudsman does not want people to be imprisoned in institutions, but if the court so decides, and because we have the Mental Health Act, which provides for these persons, of course there are no other solutions. This is the law, so the courts decide according to the opinions of the experts and this is certainly to be respected. Since it was said that it might be even more plastic to show the situation, I would point out two pages from our report, 19 and 20, where you can look at very eloquent images, unfortunately damage to the inventory, and the address also damaged the roommate and completely destroyed the room for the implementation of personal protective measures. So it is a matter of persons with mental disabilities, of persons who need a peaceful environment, as has been said, and especially without violating their rights to dignity and violations of all other rights. That is why I thank you for your strong debate, but I really expect answers, because the Ombudsman has used this last option, which he has in accordance with article 40 of the Ombudsman Act, issued a special report and does not intend to repeat it, and the implementation is at the appropriate services in the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u75	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Is there anything else we can do to discuss? [[…]] [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. No amendments to the Proposal for a Recommendation have been tabled. The proposal for a recommendation will be decided today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 19th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. I'm breaking up the 25th item of the agenda. We're moving on to 19. At the end of the day, that's a first-hand proposal for a law on the multiple value of real estate. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. With regard to this bill, a group of 19 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to Mr Tiln Bozic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u76	Dear President, honourable Members, honourable Members! I am pleased to be able to accompany the proposal for a new law on the mass valuation of property in today's general debate. The solutions it brings are the product of a broad approach to the design of the law. The proposal was therefore mortified by a number of stakeholders, which was also significantly contributed to the activities of the members of the competent project council and the project group. A number of good solutions and broad consensus on key issues have been provided by the profession, municipalities, ministries and bodies in the composition. The regular procedure in the National Assembly will thus be an opportunity for an additional test of the arguments and a possible upgrade of this expressly technical law. After a decade of introduction, there is now a comprehensive overhaul of the estate mass valuation system ahead of you, the values on this basis were first attributed to real estate at the end of 2011 and have since been aligned with market developments. The tax system was developed in order to provide tax-related data and is therefore not to be taken lightly; from a temporary property tax to a higher value, to a profit tax due to changes in the destination of land, to a property turnover tax and inheritance tax and gifts, and not least, a real estate tax. With regard to the use of the value data for the purposes of taxation, the Constitutional Court ruled in relation to the latter, i.e. the real estate tax, but followed the same decisions in the remaining cases. As a result, the Court has consistently pointed out that the possibility of a complaint has been diminished and, in view of the mass evaluation, it has warned that it relies too much on solutions in sub-legislative acts. The general market value until the information is made available, i.e. for tax purposes, does not have any useful value and for the remaining purposes the test motive is not yet so clear. Nevertheless, the results of the mass evaluation as an independent multi-purpose system are now widely used – for public purposes, i.e. in procedures for the exercise of rights from public funds, for the management of public property and the availability of space, for the various needs of statistics and so on. During business purposes according to a report by Banka Slovenije, it is used for the purpose of granting residential mortgages. Finally, public data availability has significantly contributed to the transparency of the real estate market, thereby limiting the asymmetry of information on both the customer side and the sellers. Thus, the result of mass valuation is that both buyers and real estate sellers can enter better informed. The proposal for a new law refers to all the considerations of the Constitutional Court, the criteria for mass valuation are thus laid down by law to the extent necessary to ensure adequate legal security of owners, but at the same time sufficiently flexible to reflect the dynamics of the system required to monitor changes in the real estate market. An objection to the general value of the property will be made available to the owners at the expense of the specific circumstances. These are characteristics which are not detectable from official records. Evidence of the existence and type of specific circumstances and impacts will be possible in a simplified manner if, of course, the circumstances provided for in the Regulation, as well as the individual evaluation in the remaining cases, are then assessed by the competent Commission. In the specific circumstances procedure, the property owner will be provided with further legal certainty with the possibility of a complaint against the decision issued. In this regard, it is also worth noting, in the context of further discussion, that the mass valuation process does not decide on the rights and obligations of an individual, but only identifies the value of the property and the use or use of that data will then be subject to the determination of other laws. The key building blocks of the quality of mass valuation are undoubtedly both the existence and the quality of real estate data. As far as this has been possible on existing bases, in recent years the Geodetic Authority has already strengthened its data improvement activities, but without upgrading the legal framework there will be no more effective and more intensive data quality assurance. This will be closely linked to the amendments to the Real Estate Registration Act and can now be seen in the public debate. These provide for more powers of the Geodetic Authority in the control of data quality. There is also a technical solution to enable a significant shift in the area of road and rail infrastructure data. As mentioned in the introduction, the draft law is the result of an open approach in cooperation with different stakeholders. In the spirit of transparency and the democratisation of processes, the proposal envisages further strengthening cooperation with the professional public. Their important contribution is also promising in the redesign phase of evaluation models, since it has been decided that mathematical models will no longer be called black boxes, so solutions will be sought on the basis of constructive criticism by the professional public and the municipalities together with the competent office. In order to accompany honourable Members and Members at the end of today's debate with the assessment that they are fit for further consideration, I look forward to the future debate, your initiatives and any criticisms and concerns that we would like to give them today. For explanations and responses, of course, I will also be available to you all the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u77	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Luka Mesec has a presentation of the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u78	Thank you for your word and a nice hello! Members of the coalition and representatives of the government will probably explain today that this law is not directly related to the property tax and that the record is maintained for other purposes, but in Levica we believe that it is necessary to be disclosed here. One of the main reasons why this record is kept in general is the taxation of real estate. Since property ownership in Slovenia is dispersed, the average citizen is rightly concerned about what the real estate tax will be when it is introduced. For there are at least two ways in which this tax can be imposed. On the one hand, we can introduce, let's say, a socially fair tax where there are substantially higher taxes on high-value real estates, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, flats and so on, or on the other hand, we can dissipate taxes to cover as many people as possible and thus burden those above and disproportionately tax those who have substantially less property. The last five governments, from Janševa, through Pahoreva to Cerarov, systematically implemented unfair tax policies. On the one hand, taxes on high wages and capital revenues are systematically reduced and, on the other hand, taxes that we all pay equally, at the same rate, irrespective of income, these are mainly VAT and excise duties. It is therefore legitimate to worry that once the property tax is introduced, the privileged groups of dignitaries, the real estate barons, including the Roman Catholic Church, will again largely avoid tax, while, on average, citizens who live in, per square view, large houses or apartments will be affected by the tax on the basis of the type of housing and construction in Slovenia, but can be very low-income people, pensioners, unemployed people, rural people and so on. It is therefore true today that there is an alternative to an unfair property tax, and the alternative is that those who have high value contribute more than they do today, so that all other small owners do not burden even more than they do now. A study on inequality in Slovenia was recently published in Umar. This showed that 10% of the richest people in this country already own almost half of all assets, 47% and the poorest 20%, on the other hand, own less than half of all assets. The ownership structure is extremely unfair and this is evident from this data. Although property ownership is unfair, the gap between the rich and the rest of the population is enormous. It has the richest 10% if we are looking at strictly real estate, it owns 34% of all properties and the lower half of the population once less. It is said that the lower 50 % has less property than the upper 10 % once. The polarisation between the rich and the rest of the population is probably even greater in this area than the statistics show. The Geodetic Authority takes into account only real estate owned directly by natural persons, but we know that a lot of people with a lot of assets own this property through their companies. Why am I saying this? Because it is a huge reserve for fair taxation of property and property of great value. Looking at European standards, 10% of the most powerful people in Slovenia do not practically pay property taxes. France, these are official European data, collecting as much as 4.5% of its GDP over property taxes. Slovenia, on the other hand, only collects 0.6; it is said to be eight times less than France, relative to the percentage of GDP. We are even lagging behind in this respect for Poland, Latvia, Hungary and other Eastern European countries known for their low taxation. At present, we are collecting less than €250 million per year from the title of assets into the budget. For comparison and that people will understand how small this is, I can say that next year Slovenia will pay at least 3 times as much on public debt interest, more than 3 times as much – 855 million euros. Therefore, if we introduce fair taxes on property of high value, we can significantly increase the revenue of the budget and the municipalities. Part of this effort is a fair real estate tax, which should meet at least two conditions. Firstly, a general relief should be introduced to ensure that small owners do not pay more than they are paying now for the use of building land. Secondly, a tax scale should be introduced to substantially tax those 10% who own, as I said before, almost half of all assets and 43% of all properties. Let me conclude by defining myself until technical solutions in this law. We do not oppose the Government's proposals in the Left. It is right that someone who has, say, a reptile for a house or lives in a damaged house has the opportunity to demand a correction of value. However, it is important to note here that these funds will be more accessible to the property owners, because you can afford judicial valuers, and so on, to lower their tax base, while the question arises as to how much of this will be available to the poorest. This imbalance cannot even prevent simplified procedures for enforcing the specific circumstances proposed by the Government, but this can be corrected later by high taxation of large owners, which is, as I have stressed in my address and I stress for the end, the essence of this issue. But as we say, we will not oppose these technical matters that are being handled today.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mag. Alenka Bratušek will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u80	That's a good-bye for the third time. We're probably still in the Property Valuation Act, not the real estate tax.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u81	Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u82	So it's not the most appropriate thing to just connect these two things. [[…]] The Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estate was adopted for the first time in 2006, and the decision of the Constitutional Court meant that the Government had to amend it. I am pleased that there is a new law before us, that it is not the corrections of the old, and that they are actually solving with this law what the Constitutional Court has imposed; that is, that things are laid down in law and not in law and that legal security is regulated. It is also probably right to discuss such an important law today in this first reading in the general debate. As we have been assured in the Group of Members, there are no other major changes in the model that is taken into account or will determine the value of the law at this time. It is likely that further adjustments will be needed by stakeholders concerned as well as the Legal and Legislative Service, but that is why there is a procedure in the National Assembly. Thus, in our parliamentary group, we will support this law in this reading because we assess that it is necessary and that it is right for us to make a point in the valuation of real estate in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Ms Vojka Shergan will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. Dear representatives of the ministries, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on the mass valuation of real estates will lay down rules of procedure and criteria for the mass valuation of property values in the Republic of Slovenia for the purposes of taxation and other public purposes established by law. Multi-value real estate is a process by which a value is suddenly determined for a larger number of real estates using valuation models that mathematically simulate the functioning of the real estate market. The valuation models shall be drawn up on the basis of an analysis of the market developments carried out on this particular property collected in the records. Multi-value valuation allows the assessment of the market value of real estate, is widespread in developed economies, and in particular in recent times other uses are also associated with primary tax applications, both for other public purposes and for business and private purposes such as banks, insurance companies. The quality results of mass valuation improve the principles of the functioning of the real estate market, thus increasing awareness of the participants in the real estate market. The general value of the property, determined by the mass valuation of the property, ensures the objectivity, verifiability and comparability of the results and therefore fulfils the conditions for multipurpose use. The first law on mass evaluation was passed in 2006 with the same purpose as mentioned already in this law. It was also adopted in April 2006 by the Real Estate Registration Act. This law has enabled the regulation, registration of property, state borders and spatial units, the procedure for regulating and modifying land plot boundaries, the procedure for entering data on buildings and parts of buildings into the cadaster of buildings and the registration of their changes, the register of property, the issuance of data and other matters related to the recording of property, state borders and spatial units. Of course, it should be mentioned that the Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estate was last amended in 2011. The reason for the new Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estate is mainly because the law in force needs to be recast to address the findings of the Constitutional Court in the Republic of Slovenia on the non-constitutionality of the current law, this is a violation of the principle of legality, and a lack of regulation of the legal security of the real estate owner in determining the value of the property if these values are used for the taxation of real estate. Only by updating mass valuation with the new law will the condition be met for the possible use of data on the general value of real estate also for the purposes of determining the tax base suitable for a modern real estate tax system. Of course, the whole issue of property taxation will be regulated in a separate law, independent of this law. The reform of the real estate taxation system is urgently needed due to both formal and substantive difficulties of the current real estate burden system. Today, property is taxed with these taxes: property tax, land use compensation and forest road maintenance fee. The legal basis for all three duties was abolished by the application of the Real Estate Tax Act and by a decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, which means that it is not possible to interfere with the legal basis. As a result, the amendment of the municipal decrees for the NUSZ dose has no legal basis, except in Article 58 of the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016 and 2017, the municipalities have obtained a legal basis for the adoption of new decrees. The NUSZ system, in the form it is now, poses a high risk to municipal financing, so, of course, together with the property tax and the fee for the use of forest roads, it would be necessary to replace it as soon as possible with a single property tax based on the general value of real estate as a tax base. No real estate tax will be imposed in this government's mandate, but a new law on the mass valuation of real estate provides a better basis for its enforcement than the existing law on mass valuation. Thus, the new proposal allows the use of property data from official records, property being valued in accordance with the most economical use reflected in the market value. The law allows real estate owners to be informed of new values when changing valuation models. However, it is also important that the law provides property owners with the right to object to the value – i.e. the procedure for determining specific circumstances. As a result of the above, the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party will support the draft Law on Mass Valuation at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u86	Dear President, Honourable Secretary of State, Fellow Members and Fellow Members! We have before us the proposal for a law on the mass valuation of property. We will not support this bill in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, but we will not only support it for one reason. We will not support him for the reason that we are convinced that this is an introduction to real estate tax. For we are sure that the Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estate means only a foundation, which will then continue with the Law on the Taxation of Real Estates. The Government of Mir Cerar, a coalition – a party of the modern centre, Desus and the Social Democrats – are indeed calling for the correction of the findings made by the Constitutional Court regarding the Law on Mass Valuation and that these matters are being rectified, but also in some of the discussions that we had with the representative of the Ministry of Finance, we have announced in the Slovenian Democratic Party, if you do not seriously think about the property tax, then in the very introduction of the Law on Mass Valuation of Real Estate – this law will not be the basis for the Real Estate Tax Act. Of course not, so we do not intend to support this proposal. We are convinced that there have been enough new taxes under the government of Mir Cerar, enough burdens for taxpayers and the economy, because a respected coalition, respected representatives of the Ministry of Finance, tell us what this law on mass property valuation is today used for. Give your reasons, and on what basis do we then come to these conclusions? In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that this law will primarily be the basis and the introduction of the Real Estate Tax Act. On the other hand, we have had a proper conversation with the representatives of the Ministry of Finance, and we have also made some comments on the text that is ready. There's only one case we'd like to highlight. The problem seen by forest owners is that the law defines the same value zones, for example, in Gorenjska as for forests in Kras. The valuation of forest values does not take into account circumstances such as the inclination and relief of the forest and the vertical distances. Therefore, in this area too, if the coalition decides to turn on the green light in the first reading, it will be necessary to change these matters further to the adoption of this law. We have also pointed out in the Slovenian Democratic Party the shortcomings that are concentrated in this proposal for a law on extraordinary events. In fact, this law does not provide for extraordinary events. We'd like to point out an example, say, of Vrhnike and real estate on Vrhnika. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that because of the extraordinary event that took place with the Kemis factory, the property value in Vrhnika has also been reduced due to the consequences. This law alone does not, of course, provide that property on the basis of an extraordinary event would then also reduce value, but that calculation and valuation are based primarily on the statistics envisaged for purchase and sale. So a number of things that we do not agree with in the Slovenian Democratic Party are, above all, assessed that they are extremely poorly prepared. Last but not least, as we have already said in the introduction, the main reason that we will not give the green light to this law is that we are convinced that the Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estate will only be a lever for new taxation, for a new burden on both the economy and the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, which is a property tax.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacič will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Good-bye to all of you! In the Desus Group, we are trying to understand the Government's decision that, despite the fact that no law will be adopted in this mandate, which would allow for the imposition of a property tax, it will continue all the necessary activities for its implementation. In particular, because we can see how the public will react to the introduction of the tax, even if it is in the direction of a more equitable upgrade of the existing system. We've had a similar experience before. Real estate owners will find it difficult to convince that this time the bill is much more in their favor. It is already the fact that owners are intensively involved in the acceptance of valuation models, that they will be informed of the new assignment of property value and that they will be given the opportunity to change that will make a much greater emphasis on their legal security. This also allows us to comply with the decision of the Constitutional Court. However, new real estate valuations may make the lives of those owners who, according to current estimates, have much lower value of their real estate and who would be further hit by the new tax in their pocket, so the proposal for a law in the parliamentary group does not seem to be as innocent as it will still lay the foundations of a real estate tax, despite some kind of technical law. In doing so, let us stress that the proposal for a law is comprehensive, complex and imprecise, and that the subject is difficult to understand for an average citizen. We are convinced that unless an individual is qualified to do so, it would be very difficult for him to calculate the new value of the property, so he has nothing left to believe in the calculation that Gurs will set for him. Laws must be written in such a way that they are understandable to the general public, without creating further confusion and concern. This is where it gets stuck. The property tax will certainly take place in the near future. We have always advocated the simultaneous treatment of both proposals in the parliamentary group, as they are interdependent and we were also interested in the real estate tax framework, especially in the calculation of new property values and simulations, which would result in the introduction of real estate tax on the basis of these data to real estate owners. In the Desus Group, we are particularly careful not to impose additional burdens on the household and the economy. However, without looking into the content of the proposal for a real estate tax law, we regret only the assurance of the competent ministry that the taxes collected from this title will be approximately the same as those currently applied to local taxes. The fact is that the current chaotic situation in the area of the collection of municipal duties requires a thorough overhaul, at a systemic level. We need quality records based on accurate and up-to-date data, as this is the only way we can contribute to a transparent real estate market while at the same time providing administrative simplifications and financial savings. So, with regard to the multi-purpose use of data in the parliamentary group, we have no reservations, and despite the positive solutions that the bill will bring, we are still somewhat detained. In the Group of Members, we advocate a fair division of the tax burden. The real estate tax will also affect older people, so we are already predicting the possibility of introducing exemptions for those. Our concern not only ends when we raise pensions, but we study carefully all the suggestions that could leave an impact on the social life of all people, including the older population. It is for this very reason that we will listen to today's broader debate on all the positive and negative consequences that the law will bring, only then will we consider supporting the law in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Germany will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues, dear colleagues! Today we are starting to consider a bill that regulates a lot of technical details, but it can have a great impact on the life of each of us. The valuation of real estate is the basis for determining the type of existing obligations, duties and rights that exist today. It is not a matter of regulating an area that would be introduced into a new area, namely, the Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estate was adopted in 2006. It is recalled that the Constitutional Court repealed an important part of the law in March 2014 when it assessed the imposition of the property tax. One of the key arguments of the Constitutional Court was the insufficient legal security of property owners, in particular their limited capacity to appeal to the estimated value and the inadequacy of the legal framework which would allow municipalities to use the valuations of the value obtained by this law as a basis for the tax assessment. The property tax is intended to compensate the applicable compensation for the use of building land. However, most of the law has remained in force and is still valid, it is the basis for a system that allows each of us to verify the estimated value of our property through publicly accessible websites. In recent years, many have been able to observe changes in real estate values since this system has been in force, as data are regularly updated and refreshed. Data represent an assessment that is also used for other purposes, for example as an estimate of the value of assets in determining the amount of entitlement to social transfers, in the processes of redistribution for public benefit and so on. We believe that every evaluation system can only be fair if it is based on a fair and objective assessment of the value of real estate, regardless of the purpose to which the estimated value should be taken into account. While it is true that this law does not impose a property tax and does not set its height, the real estate tax is expected to be introduced in a certain later period by a specific law, but it means the valuation of real estate as a key basis for the valuation of the value and, of course, for the future tax base. At this point, we need to follow one of the fundamental principles of the rule of law, namely that only a law can establish a tax obligation, but not a possible act under law. We can say that the road to real estate tax is still relatively long after the possible adoption of this law. It is therefore appropriate today to focus primarily on the mass valuation of real estate, but it is understandable that the debate will not be able and must not remain within technical details. Social Democrats, therefore, want such a system and evaluation that will encourage people to make responsible use of property. The current proposal of the law provides that the basis for the valuation of real estates will be the best use system, this simplistic means that we are looking at real estate only and in particular in terms of its highest capital return and its highest selling value. But most people have houses and apartments owned by them to live in or live alone or their families, and generally not to sell or serve with them, so the Social Democrats do not reject the idea that mass valuation would take place through a slightly different system, a system of best use. This difference means that the valuation shall take into account, in particular, what the property is intended for. Simplification, rather than assessing the value of housing in Ljubljana in terms of possible earnings by market broadcasting or sales, we assess it through the fact that this apartment is intended to stay and not serve money. This difference can ultimately mean a distinction between a fair and an unfair tax burden for people. While it is fair to say that property owners will have the opportunity to participate in valuation processes already in the definition of valuation models and, even more importantly, in determining the value of their real estate. Therefore, the activity of the owners themselves is very important. We believe that the municipalities will also have a key role to play at this point. We know that in the future the property tax will be an important source of municipal budgets. This law has long been in harmony with the congregations or their associations, which is also right. The role of municipalities in the design of valuation models and in the calculation of general real estate values is foreseen. Thus, municipalities have a great responsibility to present in detail the concept of real estate valuation to citizens and citizens in particular. Citizens' assemblies or other forms of cooperation with people will be crucial if we are to achieve adequate information and cooperation between property owners in the evaluation procedures. In general, we believe that the evaluation, taxation of property has an important role to play in promoting the socially wanted and deterring socially undesirable behaviours, and therefore our Constitution, which follows the principle of the social role of private property, is also the basis. Therefore, we believe that it is justified and fair and legally permissible if laws and taxes are designed to promote good and discourage bad conduct. Only the purpose must be clearly justified and justified. People must have the opportunity to object and to defend themselves. They must be able to take account of specific circumstances in their own property. Procedures must be simple and not costly, as this would allow most people to prove the real value of property and only the wealth would be paid, only the wealth, I apologize, it would be worth proving a lower value. Respectable, the bill builds on first-time experiences and failures by introducing mass valuations of real estate. We are confident that a number of other issues will be raised in the follow-up proceedings, so that we will support the conclusion in the first reading of the Group of Social Democrats that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Lah will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u92	We have a new attempt to establish a system of mass property valuation. I'm sure we all have a good memory of how the last attempt failed. The Constitutional Court found three unconstitutionalities in the previous law. Under the decision of the Constitutional Court, a sub-legislative provision is not appropriate for determining the elements defining the tax base. These elements shall be laid down in the law itself. The previous law did not have clear provisions on criteria, data and models. Nor was the right of the owner to participate in the proceedings or to an appropriate legal remedy properly regulated, which could be ensured by a statement or complaint. The proposal for a law on the mass valuation of real estate introduces a real estate valuation system that will be the basis for the payment of real estate tax, as well as for various other procedures such as the determination of rights from public funds, for the purposes of analysis of official statistics, different judicial procedures, public property management, public-interest empowerment. On the other hand, the system can also be used for purely business purposes, for example for the purposes of banks, insurance companies, valuers, for various study purposes and so on. The law determines how the location affects the price of the property. The proposal therefore introduces value zones that will define specific areas where, according to the real estate market, they have the same property properties as they do. The value level in this area will determine the impact of the location on the property value. As a result of the mass valuation of the property, a general value of the property shall be determined which assesses the market value of the property. The valuation model is intended to simulate the functioning of the real estate market according to its content. This raises the question of how circumstances, such as relief and distance from road connections, will affect the estimated value of the property. The market developments in the part of the value zone will affect the estimated value of the second real estate in the same zone despite all other real estate circumstances. While the evaluation models in the government regulation will define other elements that will determine the estimated value of the property, there is still a great deal of question as to how these models, assessed in the government regulation, will eventually be defined. The current proposal regulates only the value zone category and the value level, which determine the impact of the wider location on the estimated value of the property. Christian Democrats, as a positive element of the law, are assessing the fact that the proposal contains much more specific legal means by which the owner can challenge the estimated value of his property. The owner may, at any time, require a modification of the data in the records affecting the valuation of the property. We are also positively assessing the introduction of a new legal remedy. This is a procedure for dealing with and deciding on specific circumstances by which the owner will be able to enforce specific characteristics such as micro-location or damage that alters the value of his property. The specific circumstances to be identified in the simplified procedure will be defined in the specific Regulation. We are asked what special circumstances this regulation will contain. At the same time, Christian Democrats point out that so far the decision of the Constitutional Court, which has stressed the requirement that the regulation of taxes is the legislator's responsibility, which must be regulated by law. The tax base is one of the most important elements of tax regulation. When real estate tax is regulated on this basis, this law will therefore be the basis for determining the tax base. The proposed law on the mass valuation of property, however, leaves much of the elements defining the tax base to the regulation as well as the regulation. The question therefore arises to us whether there is a legitimate concern that this law, in the form it is now, would have failed to re-evaluate constitutionality in the Constitutional Court. The fact that models will only be evaluated and the specific circumstances of real estate set out in the Regulation and the Regulation raises us with a certain degree of doubt as to what will ultimately be the elements that will assess the value of the property and determine the tax base for the real estate tax. Many other European countries also know the real estate tax. The current arrangement with compensation for the use of building land is unsustainable. The property tax should also take into account the value of the property. More or more valuable properties, of course, require a higher tax burden. In Novi Slovenija, we are already reminding you that other taxes in Slovenia will have to be reduced at the same time as property taxes. We stress from the Christian Democrats that we will not support any tax burden that would impose more tax burdens on Slovenia in general than it has so far. Since we believe that the proposal can be further improved in future stages of the legislative process, we will not oppose the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u93	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr Tillen Christmas, Secretary of State, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u94	Thank you for your words as well as for the introductory views of the groups of Members! Perhaps for a future debate I would like to provide some additional information to make it easier. The first point, on the part of the United Left, was some claim, one of which is that we will claim that it is not related to the property tax. I would point out this: not at this stage, we set up a two-phase procedure. Why? Since we believe, for the first time, that this is a reasonable decision from a political point of view, because first of all, it is necessary to further regulate the data, to lay the groundwork to get those estimates of values that are most reliable. Once we have done so, we can only begin to discuss how to approach the property tax. There, the government has now adopted some guidelines; of that it will be the exclusive income of the municipalities and so on, but they are only guidelines. The political debate on this, some of you have also mentioned what would be eliminated and so on, followed in some foreseeable time. If we were to discuss this together today, it is also my view that it would probably be difficult to come to an end, given that for this very reason, we have tried to focus primarily here on the technical solutions that this law brings. [[…]] Therefore, as we speak, here are some of the claims that were about disproportionate burden, distribution and so on. You can see right through it somehow. The data so far show that the real estate in this country is around €120 billion, mentioned in the introduction some data on how it is distributed, and the fact is that when we go to value - it is said to be in some way a property - is also somehow a design, at the end when we get to the tax debate, it will follow. So someone with more will also contribute more, and the less. With regard to those words about those who may have less, we can call it a means to make them more difficult to object. This is precisely why we have foreseen one solution, which I think is quite good, but also the result of those responses from the public debate, and of cooperation in both the Council and the Group when it comes to specific circumstances. The specific circumstances, it is said in certain cases, of those which we also have in the law, in Article 26, are somehow provided for in general, which would be those types of special circumstances. That's what they count. For example, a microlocation — something that we cannot see directly from the record, say, is perhaps directly that this house borders on the road. Or the quality of the property; it may be less maintained and so on, as well as damage. For example, it was mentioned earlier by another Member, and a link between what must have happened in Kemis. However, we have one solution in conjunction with Article 29, when certain findings of the administrative authorities or, we may call it, at the level of the municipality which will be established, may be attributed on an official basis. Thus, in the event that an influential area is identified, it is not possible for certain agricultural land to be used in the manner envisaged for pollution and it is found that this has a significant impact on the price. It is said that this can also be taken into account, even on the basis of an official duty, either some owner chooses to enforce it, or then through this solution, where pre-planned options will be envisaged, why someone is applying a particular circumstance, or even in the case of valuations. This is more, in my opinion, for those cases that will be more difficult. So perhaps from here on out – I have already mentioned that we have set it all together as a two-phase approach, and the fact is that in the end it will also apply to the area of property taxation. Why? Because, despite the multi-purpose use envisaged, this is one of the uses that, in fact, if we look together, given how much costs this entails, allows it to be somehow economically designed and useful. On other matters, raise values and so on. The fact was, even by the professional public, we received quite a few comments that when data on actual use is used, it is said that when there is a building land, it can also be very large in the vicinity of Ljubljana, and someone in the existing enforcement system that there is a growing grass – it is said, I have a lawn, it can in some way affect the value of this property in the register and prove it to be significantly lower – in practice, it is said when we find market prices, and we are looking for just this best approximation, it is observed that such land near Ljubljana, which is, say, a lot of building, of course, has a different value than the lawn might have. [[…]] That's why it's recognized. But then what will it be like from the point of view of taxation, and this, as it were, once in the future, when this debate will also be on the table. There will also be, on the basis of some relations, also political reflection, those solutions that you will consider most appropriate. Well, let's see if that's one point of view for now. The second thing that was still exposed — about forests. Here I would point out, however, that it is envisaged that the model is somehow also referring to a credit rating and this includes the slope of the land. So, in a way, indirectly, this is also envisaged in the model. But certainly, given that we have somehow openly set ourselves the whole matter; it is said that the whole process has been working since the beginning by working with the various stakeholders we include. Somehow we can say that playing with open cards also applies to future action. That is to say, even when the model proposal comes up, it will then be somewhat left to the comments, and it will be given, not least at the local level, a public decomposition. Thus, all those comments will be obtained and those that will somehow be constructive and point in the same direction that they are based, and this will certainly be taken into account on the basis of the opinion of the profession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mrs Urska Ban has the floor to prepare Mr Zvonko Lah. Here you go, Mrs. Urska Ban.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u96	Dear Vice President, thank you so much for your word. Today, at first reading, we are considering the Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estate. As I said, this is a first reading, so I will be discussing the solutions of the proposed law a little bit more in general today, because if we decide today – and I hope that we will – that the law is suitable for further consideration, then it will be time on the working body to take a closer look at the specific content of the individual articles, including on the basis and in particular taking into account what will be said today at this first reading. It is said that we will then be able to take a concrete approach to possible corrections or continuations, to harmonising certain solutions already envisaged in this law. First of all, let me say that I welcome the way in which the Government or the Ministry has decided to approach this issue; it is said to prepare this Law on the mass valuation of property and also to prepare a broader concept of the new system-wide taxation of property in our country. It is clear from the material that both the Project Council for the Coordination of the Preparation of New Systemic Property Taxation and the Project Group for the Implementation of this Project have been established. Both working bodies have also addressed this law and, on the basis of discussions that have also been carried out in cooperation with the professional public, in particular with regard to mass evaluation and the design of evaluation models, critical comments have been received, proposals which, according to the material before us, have been largely taken into account in the final text of the proposed law. A broad and qualitative public debate was also held on the law. The debate on this subject has encouraged a wide range of stakeholders, both municipalities and professional interest associations, which is ultimately the purpose of the public debate. I would be happy if the Secretary of State could further describe this procedure for public participation, even more in detail, the participation of the municipalities. Above all, it is clear from the material that 46 proposals for comments were made in the public debate and I am interested in what was essential, what was taken into account, what was left open at this stage and is still subject to further coordination. This seems important to me because, after all, by adopting this law, we are kind of pushing the way to a different taxation of immovable property. Experience or, above all, experience in the past may make sense to listen to all opinions, perhaps even additional coordination, especially caution and criticism, which should certainly not be overstated here. And I am particularly interested in how this law was co-ordinated or coordinated with the municipalities, their representative associations: with the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, with the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia, the Association of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia, because we know that in particular the municipalities must be included in the system of mass valuation, which will later also be included through the real estate tax system of one of the main users of this type of data. Otherwise, I think it's for the law we need. Although I can also agree that this is some way of being a technical law, but on the other hand it is a law that affects almost every citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, our country is said to be, so it is also right to pay proper attention to it. Maybe first of all, what this law is talking about. What, in fact, is the mass valuation of real estate? When we deal with this law, we are not talking about mandatory owners, we are not talking about tax, but this law only identifies the value of real estate. The use and use of this data will, of course, be determined by another law, and we will probably discuss the Property Tax Act at that time. Thus, in this law it is primarily a process of evaluating a similar group of properties on a specific date where they are used, as has already been said, by standardised statistical, mathematical procedures for assessing the value of real estate. Thus, in mass valuation, unlike individual valuation, we cover a large number of similar properties, according to the country as a whole. Here plays a key role, I stress, the right choice and proper construction of evaluation models, which are in some way determined for each group of similar properties separately. I'm not going to go into these individual models right now, but, of course, they're stipulated in the law. The result of the mass valuation represents a general market value which represents an approximation of the market value of individual real estate according to the standards applicable to the individual valuation of the value of real estate. So today we are talking in some way about providing or determining a procedure or method that will allow for the mass valuation of property for various, tax and other public purposes. In my view, this will enable real estate market transparency to be implemented in a truly appropriate tax, as well as appropriate spatial policy in the area of real estate, while allowing for the recording of real estate data, making it possible to use such data to a wide range of users, for example, it has already been mentioned today in the insurance of loans, in the case of various real estate transactions, purchases, leases, mortgages and the like. I may return again briefly, in 2014, when we know that the Constitutional Court has repealed the Real Estate Tax Act, along with its provisions of the Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estates, which were related to taxation. Although the 2006 Law on mass valuation is still applicable and implemented, it is virtually impossible to apply it for all purposes for which this application was also envisaged when this law was adopted. Therefore, in my view, the adoption of this law is urgently necessary in order to ensure operationality, and the functions of the mass evaluation system are said to be for all public purposes. The general market value resulting from mass valuation is used for a number of purposes. One of these is also a tax purpose, I have already said, but it is used to determine the rights of individuals from public funds, in the business world, in determining the value of mortgages and so on. This bill, as we have already heard today, removes the findings of the Constitutional Court, which provides for an unconstitutional definition of the part of the law that defines mass valuation for the purposes of taxation, for two reasons; that the law did not provide the owners with adequate legal certainty or the possibility of cooperation in the real estate valuation process itself, and that the content which should be regulated by law was regulated in the sub-laws. We have already heard that this law refers to all these content, preserving mass valuation, but in a way that will be an appropriate starting point for a new real estate tax. The law itself allows owners to be able or able to influence the general market value of real estate at the level of determination of valuation models and the procedures for assigning value to individual real estates. This is very important for real estate owners to be able to object to the attributable values of real estate and to apply specific circumstances that may or may not be covered by valuation models. According to this proposal, the process of cooperation between owners and municipalities in the design of valuation models is upgraded, and owners will also be able to influence this attribute of value of each property. The law, it seems important to me, will allow for appropriate reductions or increases in value under proven specific circumstances; such as particularly favourable, unfavourable microlocation, over-standard quality, damage to property and so on. Indeed, the fact that the owners did not have the right to appeal or to object under the previous law had an important effect on the constitutional assessment of the property tax. According to the Constitutional Judges, the repealed provisions of the Law on Mass Valuation relating to this part of the property tax were not sufficiently clear and specific; they did not sufficiently regulate the legal position of the taxable person. Here I would say, however, that this is really only the first step in the process of updating the mass evaluation system, because on the basis of this new law a new evaluation will have to be carried out, and then much will be done mainly on the records, on the particular records. There will certainly be a very important transfer and regulation of all data on the intended use of space or land from the spatial acts of municipalities to the national level. I ask myself, I think in this area I have a lot of questions, but there is only one thing I might point out: whether the country now has well-regulated, complete data on the use of space in one place, which in practice poses a major problem in the implementation of investments in economic infrastructure, and in particular this information is very important as a condition for domestic and foreign investors. Then the next question, the registration of buildings in the cadastral buildings – are these records regulated? If these entries are not regulated, this means once again a high level of economic and legal risk both in real estate and further with regard to the taxation of these properties and so on. That I won't be too long, I'll finish it slowly. The new bill therefore improves the current system of mass property valuation, eliminates the constitutional non-compliance of the current law, as regards respect for the principle of legality and the possibility of objecting to the general value, but this is really only the first step in the whole process of modernising our system of mass property valuation. Here I stress in particular the importance of quality and correct real estate data. The results of this evaluation will be as qualitative as or as will be the quality and correct real estate data to be evaluated in this way. I believe that many other issues will be raised today; questions that may still deserve further consideration – I will now support this law in the first reading – and that in the next steps of the parliamentary procedure, I believe, this law will be improved and finalised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Ljubo Žnidar. Here you go, Mr. Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Chairman. Personally, I very much welcome this law, because there is a need to make some order in this area, and the Real Estate Tax Act should already be introduced because the current compensation for the use of building land is not a fair tax. With the property tax, I hope that more luxury or wealth will be taxed to relieve those who have certain properties for the necessary housing, but also for basic needs, and probably certain agricultural land for a particular self-sustainment, to tax those who have more real estate than they have in some way on the reserve, which have habitable building land on the reserve, thereby reducing the possibility of expanding building land to municipalities because they still have unused building land. However, I expect more from the Construction Act that it will make order in the area of legalisation, that proper records will be created, that social contributions can be fairly charged and that records will be improved to introduce this Property Tax Act, because I doubt that it will be fair if we do not make order in this area in the next few years. There are certain things that bother me. For example, in those laws, in ZUREP-2, which we will also vote on today, we have a problem of categorised municipal roads, ownership of land. It is assumed here that those lands are valued for actual use, although we know that legal practice is now different, that the courts require higher compensation than the actual use of land before the construction of this infrastructure. But we also have some things that I said at the meeting of the parliamentary group at the time, say, we have certain perimeters or we know building lands, and we have reserved land. Building land is an agricultural land where the actual use is changed, but it is not possible to build or build up because it does not have municipal infrastructure. However, the habitable land is those which are municipally equipped, where the owner can obtain a building permit. There should be a difference here. When there was building land, the value of actual land use was more than 10, 20 or even more. If this is to be done now with the method of comparable sales, I fear that damage will be done to certain properties. Let me explain; for example, municipalities can round up settlements or set up building plots to round up settlements. If this circle is, say, a few more plots, it's not municipally arranged and it splits apart and those parcels are sold for a few 10 euros per square metre - land, municipally unfurnished. If these lands are sold or already built buildings will be sold, the value of the building, the value of the municipally regulated land, plus the buildings themselves, and it will be, say, the value of the plot – we have just recently had a case where the plot was sold for EUR 46,000, next to the village. In this case, for example, the house will be worth a third construction phase, 150 000 euros and there will be 50,000 euros of parcels in this price. If someone builds a house in a village on their father's land, this building will be valued at 150 000 euros because those will be valued at 150 000 euros. That's different. If it were to sell the house for 100,000 euros, the actual value of that house would be 50 000 euros, 50 percent more. And it will be valued so much less. There may be some complications, there will be no fair value. However, if it were determined that the communally equipped plot, the value of the land of actual use plus the value of the utility equipment, we get the value of the walled plot. And now it's a lot more, a few times more. And it will not be fair, because if one sells at such a value, the tax will be paid at such a value by all those who have comparable objects on that value zone that will be determined. That is why I fear that there will be some mistakes here, that perhaps in neighbouring countries, the municipality will buy land at the price of actual use, plus some additions, premiums, municipal equipment as cheap as possible, that the habitable plot is municipally equipped, that then the total value of the building with communally equipped land is as low as possible for young families or, I don't know, whether for social housing or housing units. [[…]] In some ways, however, we cover speculative purchases, which we will continue with this law, through this mass evaluation, in this way. If it's going to be a comparable sales method, that's what Gurs has done by the time he got out of the contract. We have a case with us of a worthless forest where the owner, who has five, six hectares of forest, turned the municipality into a building plot because it was planning an industrial or economic zone. By the time the value of that notice came, this forest was worth €18 and half, because at the beginning of this zone several thousand square meters had already been sold at such a price. So far the NUSZ has not been accounted for because it was not municipally equipped, so it will come here until I don't know, it seems right for me to make order to someone who doesn't want to sell for a particular construction that forces them to pay a high tax, but it should be evaluated and then with the property tax itself very precisely defined. [[…]] If we are now saying that the property tax will not be entirely higher than the NUSZ, I will tell you that the NUSS that the municipalities charge represent between 5 and 8% of the eligible consumption and that this is the original revenue of the municipality. If it is not more efficient, it is a shame to bring in problems that the congregations will have. A huge problem with that tax. At the start, however, we decided that this was the original income of the congregation. Of course it is, but it means very little. The original income is income. The funding of municipalities should also be changed to stimulate the municipality to create new jobs as in neighbouring countries, but not only has a dormitory population, but doctors who live there in dormitory settlements with high wages and high incomes. That's wrong. If we are going to a new tax policy, we need to view it as a whole, as is seen by a certain citizen or a family who is either in Ljubljana or in the center or in the outskirts, or somewhere in the countryside. You must be aware that now many young people are working from home, that they are no longer driving to work and that the quality of their stay is no longer in Ljubljana near the railway station or bus station, but somewhere in a rural area where there is no smog, there is no PM10, where there is no more sun, where there is more. This mentality is turning, and we must also impose tax policy so that we have some sort of regulation. On the other hand, if I look at the taxation or mass valuation of agricultural land or in the forest, the value of the forest is the value of the land, the value of the wood mass in the forest, what the racial stage is, if the growth is ten years old, there will be no income from this forest for 50 years, the growth coefficient, how fast it grows. We have, say, reefs, where it's on one side, let's say the east, where the deep ground, the growth coefficient is very large, is five, six cubic meters per hectare per year. On the other hand, when the wind takes the leaves to the valley, the shallow ground is, but the growth coefficient is 10 times lower. But I doubt that this zone will be divided into one and the other. Then we have the rest of the beauty on one plot, where virtually nothing grows, almost nothing, is the stone itself. I think that the records are already so detailed or, in order to make this effort, we have the Institute of Forests, experts who can better determine the value of the forest itself, as well as accessibility to the road, the propensity. The ratings already determine certain things, but I don't think it's accurate enough. With regard to taxation, it was said that the property tax would abolish the cadastral income. [[…]] He doesn't think he's new. Won't it be double taxation? Catastrophe income is the income that the owner receives on a certain agricultural land. According to the crop, the value of this land, if we go to the forest, is significantly higher and will be taxed at the value of the land and even with the cadastral income. If we look at social contributions, then. Someone who has, already appears, a few hectares of land with which he cannot generate some income as on a farm, but will be just a burden to them, what interest will he have in farming if he pays the property tax or is deprived of social benefits due to this movement, the value, and his income will be increased by the cadastral income? Now, people are practical, they calculate, and I have already asked the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture once, if the country has this case, that someone can prescribe to the country certain agricultural land or sometimes give it to the Church. [[…]] I hope or don't know who the better economist is: either the state or the Church. Who do people prefer to give to? Because they're just going to figure it out. We already have cases where some people are recalculating their inheritance, whether it's worth signing to take over certain properties according to the social benefits they are. With us, if anyone has five or six children, it is not worth doing anything, having nothing, and the quality of life is the best. We have to keep that in mind. I think we should have a policy of how to stimulate people to cultivate agricultural land in order to maintain our cultural landscape, but not to milk them to the end, but eventually to grow – half of the agricultural land is already ours – and we will buy, import cheap and unquality food. For this reason, I hope that the Government will make a good count when it implements this legislation. We know what the cadastral income will bring. As adopted, there will be a disaster in 2019, 2020, but then this government will no longer be. Because it's gradually rising! That's what we've been alerting you to. Now the real estate tax should be about as high as the cadastral income. I don't know where I'm from. I've always stressed that two pensioners were talking to each other, and he said to each other, "It's a shame, because I don't have 100 euros more in pension, but I could have two cows, and now I only have one." [[…]] Because in fact, if you calculate all the costs that this farmer has to pay for processing, what can he sell from and where can he sell? Practically nothing. And then we charge it with tax receipts, with carriers above fi 10, out of the woods. We're the modern-day Butlers! And that’s what 70 - year - olds do because the younger ones are no longer — they’re too smart! I speak from experience, back there with the villages, and I'm so stupid myself, I'm working in the trenches, because otherwise I can break myself. On the other hand, it is good to start somewhere; it is also good to start with a tax or construction law, to legalize that we have no citizens of two grades; those who have paid municipal contributions, built by regulations, obtained a building permit, which is stupid because they paid so much more and, on the other hand, the citizens who have paid nothing have also built it. It is right that they legalise that they pay those taxes once to the congregation and that the municipality then makes this a municipal infrastructure, because there is still a lot missing, because we have about 300,000 citizens who do not have healthy drinking water, and we have it in the Constitution, and there are not enough Roma communities to think. So it's right to start somewhere, it's about time to start. I support this law and also the Real Estate Tax Act, only substantially different from the one that was repealed. We had a lot of problems paying for our tax buildings and so on. I have also obtained a real estate tax law from other countries, some where the property tax is exempt from the first real estate tax, for example, a house or an apartment is not paid at all, and each of the following is paid the tax or because the family does not need it for itself, may be paid, including rent, rent and taxes, or is then exempt from the property tax if the State receives another tax. That's mostly what they're doing. In Slovenia, about 300,000 accommodation units are supposed to be empty, on reserve. In my congregation of 900 households, there are supposed to be about 300 of these, especially building houses. Or houses, two-story houses, where two pensioners live with a pension of EUR 400 and fear that when one is no longer there, the other will not have enough pension just for the bills. We have many of these, and perhaps with the right tax policy, these housing units could also be filled, a number of housing difficulties being solved, as the tax on the other hand must also be stimulating. I hope that it will go this way and that there will be so many healthy farmers in adopting or preparing this legislation that we will settle, but of course time will have to follow. 30 years ago, when we were making phone calls, we were digging, planting drugs, pulling wires, cost 5,000 marks to each family. Nobody's using anymore. A few years ago, we brought optics into every building. How long will that be? Now I don't think in 10 years we'll be using that to go over wireless. Because technology is progressing so fast, and this needs to be followed. Just as I read that energy, electricity, maybe 15 years from now, is going to be free of charge, because we're going to use solar energy and we can save this energy, so that it's now going to be self-sustaining or building a solar power plant and it's going to have to be followed. They say that development goes so fast that every two years the chip is half smaller and twice as capable, twice as capable, of greater capacity, and development is so fast. We must not be trampled here because, virtually, this nature that we have, with which we boast, attract tourists or ourselves have found, because we have not invited them, we will soon defend them if it goes that way. To preserve what nature has given us for future generations, and if this land of ours has survived so many centuries of Slovenian agriculture, I think we owe it to maintain it in such a condition that it will last for another century, so that we will not depend on imported, poor, half-synthetic food, because we have a lot of quality at home and a lot of good people who can produce it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Žnidar has the floor to prepare Mr Marko Ferluga. Here you go, Mr. Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, distinguished representatives of the Ministry of Finance, colleagues and colleagues! Of course, I basically support the step that is being taken in the Republic of Slovenia to regulate the situation in the real estate market or in the real estate area, which is actually unregulated. However, I am against the new taxes, which are a trend of burdening citizens of the Republic of Slovenia in constantly raising obligations and actually increasing duties, and of course this is a step towards this. I am of the opinion that the real estate tax should not raise the current base, that is to say in the part charged by municipalities charged by the Ministry of Agriculture in the form of cadastral income; in short, that this level should be maintained, but of course by the regulation and good records and valuation of these properties in the Republic of Slovenia. I am therefore aware that this is an important step, but I should say, whether or not it should be taken into account, I would say a 2014 school when the real estate tax law was actually rejected by the Constitutional Court. I would say, this is an example that needs to be taken very well for an example in preparing for this part. I read these explanations in the law itself, where new solutions are envisaged with a consistent valuation of land after their intended use. We have two types of land; we have agricultural land that is built, and we have an unwalled building of land that is at this moment, until it's built, in agricultural use, which is of course economical, which is, of course, logical. This is how I fully understand it here, but it is not clear to me, because this law removes the status of the land on which it can be built. What is the status of that land? It says well, the status of the land on which it can be built is lifted. I believe that the records will also be taken from the Ministry of Agriculture, where the actual use of a particular land is actually visible, the use of agricultural land and I have also indicated that certain agricultural land is built; or with the permission of administrative procedures or not. Different. And these walled land is quite something. I would like to ask for an explanation of this ambiguity, which land we will eliminate or the status of the land. This law abolishes the status of land on which it can be built. I don't understand that from the explanation. It has already been pointed out that agricultural land has been valued. From the evaluation, I would say that before the preparation of the real estate tax law before 2014, different agricultural land or very similar agricultural land was unreasonablely valued, completely unreasonable. The derogations were not to say ten-fold, more than ten-fold deviations; in short, the differences were unreasonable. However, it is necessary to be aware or somehow to make a suggestion for meaningful attention. I believe that for certain flat land it will be of great interest and so on, but I am already warning that by evaluating agricultural land we will not take a step to ensure that all land remains, except for these flat and best agricultural land, so that they will no longer be treated. Because no one will actually want to own these lands. You need to be aware of that. Such land in Slovenia is two thirds or, if I say or assess from another point of view, such landowners should be subsidised in order to be treated. Then I am aware that there are also specific categories of land as defined by exposed land, high-rise farms and so on. Thus, the spectrum is very sensitive here and in Slovenia it is so diverse in the valuation of agricultural land and it is particularly careful here. Certainly, this must not be a new basis for raising taxes in this agricultural land segment. See, already this trend in the increase in taxes, which I initially pointed out, is not highlighted much, for 2018 there are slightly less than a billion more revenues. The vast majority of these revenues are based on an increase in taxes for citizens of the Republic of Slovenia in various areas. From this point of view, it is only necessary to ask how long the economy will endure this tax hike and how long will citizens endure this increase in taxation in all other areas as well. The valuation of real estate is a step towards this, and it must first be done with exceptional sensitivity, with extreme care, with a fair record, and then simply accept whether to tax this or not at the current level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Ferluga has the floor to prepare Mr Bojan Podkoršek. Here you go, Mr. Ferruga.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u102	Thank you for your word. Greetings to the Secretary of State and the team and to all other honourable Members! We're all for this marriage, but then it starts right away, but, uh, three picks and stuff. As with all marriages, so stories are always repeated. Why did we go to the Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estate? Simply for one simple reason, because this legislation had to be recast, firstly, and secondly, the findings of the Constitutional Court on the unconstitutionality of this current law, which as a breach of the principle of legality and so on and so on. So, the Law of Mass Valuation. Only by updating this valuation and by means of this new law will this basic and me very important condition be met for the possibility of using data on the general value of real estate, which is also intended to determine the tax base in the future and that it will also be suitable for the system of this property tax, which I know that the Secretary of State and his team have worked hard. Sadly, our coalition — all together, all three partners — somehow gave up because of this and that. I'm going to say that because of the election, that you don't want to offend anyone and that you don't want to reduce the number of voters. But I think it is essential to say that this real estate law was extremely important, so that we could actually have some good extension for what we have so far, namely compensation for the use of building land, the tax on the property of natural persons and the maintenance fees for forest routes. We now have all these things in these old ones, which are three unrelated, uncoordinated systems, otherwise all of this is flowing into the municipal budget and which I think the municipalities or municipalities should be quite interested. The law itself is quite a feat, it is a fairly technical law, so that for those who do not understand it – which I also belong to, of course, that there will be no mistake – it is difficult to understand. What is important is this fact, which somehow wishes to be revealed and proved; that is, what the system of mass evaluation is meant to bring. Thus, transparency of the real estate market is essential. Here are these uniform real estate records that would be publicly accessible, of course. This constant monitoring of this real estate market, which, as we have seen, also staggers considerably, also depending on economic and political news, that publicly available valuations of the value of real estate, as I mentioned earlier, are, importantly, reliable information for potential investors and also that all stakeholders in this real estate market are somehow informed and that this option of non-market behaviour is reduced. Information is also for spatial development, which is not negligible in us. And the equality of dealing with these same properties, I think what this property tax is, and it's very important, and here are kind of the elements to which this is addressed. When we speak of this as a bonus to the future property tax, it is also a matter of promoting rational treatment of these properties. Also, which is very important to me, and I think that, therefore, the municipalities should be or, in my opinion, the municipalities are also interested in the possibility of providing some stable revenue for the municipalities, especially for investments, which is not negligible. This is about building economic and social infrastructure and, of course, other municipal investments. Clearly, there are concerns. Here I have quite a few letters from the congregations themselves, where they have some of their comments, such as in every law, but I think that this with some coordination still has to somehow come to some of the same denominator. I think it is properly set and that the concept is properly set, for which I once again thank the Secretary of State and the team. I know she's been working hard on this because it's always like this, I'm going to say in quotes, boxy stuff, but especially when it happens, if it does, this property tax, which everyone's drowning in, we don't know why, and we know what kind of political perturbation it's already been doing in the past, but I think we should come to some sort of order once and for all. It is now just one piece of mosaic that somehow unites into this unified understanding and functioning of the tax system. I think this matter needs to be supported and continued in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor to prepare Mr Ivan Škodnik. Here you go, Mr. Underpants.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u104	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, thank you for your input. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr Secretary of State with his team! When we are talking in the National Assembly about the Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estate, I certainly agree with those, especially my colleague, who presented the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party that this is just one entry into real estate tax. I would add that this is a large door that opens this corridor to real estate tax. Of course, I agree with all of those — there must have been a lot of work to be done in order to prevent this material from falling out of the closet. That's how the Secretary of State is supposed to be here, including all your associates. [[…]] It is also true, however, that, as my colleagues have said in this National Assembly, we have a great deal of disorder in this area. That's right. We also have a lot of loose ends in different areas in this country. When we talk about tax and when I talk about this hallway in real estate tax, we must certainly remember in 2014 when the Constitutional Court lit a red light on that tax. We live in the country, and the Secretary of State said that we have valued this property to about 120 billion. This is, of course, a big number that we certainly don't all know how to imagine. But we also have on one side those who have these properties many, many times also unnecessary. On the other hand, we have people who have those basic properties and very difficult to pay taxes for these properties. It also happens many times when you meet someone who has had the opportunity in the past to come to some property that is certainly too rich, too large, of course, and then someone comes to a time that no longer can. It is a fact, however, that we have all noted together for some time now, that even through this bill – I have listened carefully to all the coalition positions, including the Members and Members of the Coalition, who have discussed very carefully. Above all, I was very careful when I listened to the president of the Committee on Finance. She was very careful. And I would have stopped here myself at this caution. The fact is that we are putting too much burden on the economy, most often they are unable to do so. Or, as a result, this is passed on to employees, of course, when we talk about why employees with those minimum wages cannot get more wages. We certainly live in a time in this Slovenia when we are overburdening – I don't think it's the right expression, because people are all the same – those who have the least that are hard to live. I therefore have a lot of concerns about this proposal for a law on the mass valuation of property, and I am really afraid that we are in the hallway and that, if you, honourable Members and Members, with the key to this proposal, give the Government the opportunity to reach this law on real estate tax. However, I know that it is not always the fault of those who are employed in the ministry, but most of the time it will come that everyone who listens to me will understand me, befel, but if it comes to it, that it is necessary to reach this goal. When we reach this goal, of course, most of the time I do not want to talk like that, we forget those who live the hardest, and we forget those who have already been burdened too much in the past. Most of the time, it is just the goal of this law, now this and then the real estate law, getting under the roof, going into force, and then no one else is responsible. Of course, we also don't like to hear Members and Members when people stop us on the sidewalk or in our place, that we are responsible for something. Even today's debate seems so calm, quiet, cautious, but it all shows that, with this climate calmed down, this law can come into force and, as a result, greater burden for our people. But I certainly agree, and I will always press the button for when we can collect taxes from everyone in the area of taxes. Dear Secretary of State, I appreciate you, you are certainly the ones who know the situation in Slovenia, that one tax is paid, one will receive for 100 or 200 euros and executions, and we have also heard that they have lost their property today when we talk about real estate, and there are people in the country who do not pay millions of taxes, even people who write these things off after millions. That is why I appreciate today’s caution in this hall and the great concern that we do not go down the wrong hallway leading to real estate tax. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Škodnik has the floor to prepare Mr Tomaž Lisec. Here you go, Mr. Badass.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u106	Thank you for your word, chairman! Dear Secretary of State with a team, colleague and fellow Members! Today, of course, we are talking about the Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estate, which will, of course, be the basis, or the basis, where rules, procedures and criteria for the mass valuation of real estates will be regulated with a view, later with a second tax, to ensure that these things or these properties are taxed as fairly as possible. Of course rules, procedures, criteria. I hope you've all thought about it and that experts from different fields are working here. I speak because these rules will ultimately play the role when all actors involved will be from those areas. Today we talked about agriculture, one is so hot, the other is the economy in general. If these criteria are so designed that the taxes we're talking about are just and realistic, then it's okay. And it's the right thing to do. Of course, these criteria need to be reached, which are the basis for taxes, and these taxes will certainly occur in some future, of course with some other law. Today, however, we must say that the property is taxed with three taxes — a property tax, a compensation for the use of building land, a maintenance fee for forest roads, and so on. If I go back to agriculture first, later I will touch the other economy of the agricultural area and, of course, the forests from which individuals live, work and income will, of course, have to be properly assessed that these taxes will not be really high later because it has already been mentioned that the countryside is growing and we know that we need to preserve the countryside because it also relates to the development of tourism. [[…]] I come from the countryside myself, I've lived there for a long time, on the farm and things I'm still following, talking to farmers and different people, and somehow I know that the income generated on the farm is not as simple as a lot of thought. We talk a lot, the farms are nice, we've been on a visit, we've had a nice meal, now we're gonna get knees, and so on. All this is nice, it's a nice job, but to get to it, you have to work hard, invest a lot, not just for one year, for decades. You have to give up vacations, work on holidays and so on. In short, agriculture is a special area. I know that these things will be taken into account, and I hope that they will not have a negative impact on the fall of the countryside in this direction. However, I must fully agree with Zvonk Laho and Ljub Žnidar, who spoke before me, that there will be a great deal of attention to agricultural areas which have the status of walled areas, but where their land is processed, this is the income for the farm and this is the difference between those which are construction plots which are communally equipped and so on. Now a lot of people are going to say why farmers have these building plots. Many times, they have not cooperated alone, and with various decisions, certain areas are also wally and are in fact valued. Some farmers don't even know it, only when they get the taxes will they see it. If I'm going to the economy I talked to a colleague today, an entrepreneur who somehow explained to me that the economy needed to be unloaded. [[…]] I hope that these various taxes will not further burden the economy, because we know that in the economy it is necessary to create, invest in certain facilities, and that if there is a basis for some production facilities, that they will then be based on these criteria, which will later be the basis for the tax, that this will truly be properly assessed, that these entrepreneurs will not be given huge taxes and will then be deterred and not motivated by production. However, I would like to stop in the field of environmental impacts. Everyone here should also be aware when we talk about taxes in the economy See, it doesn't matter if we compare products made of iron, aluminium, cement, wood. [[…]] Finally, products made from these materials have the same tax, but when we look at the environmental impact, let's say the example of cement, plastics, where the CO2 transmission is up to fifty times higher, and the wood is vice versa, the wood accumulates CO2. Thus, there will be a lot to be done in this area, and of course also to regulate and tax in such a way that it will be fair. We must be aware that we must support production that does not have a negative impact on the environment. We need to be aware that we have children, that we have grandchildren, that they can live behind us later. We talk about this environment a lot, we talk about it, but nothing actually happens. I think that certain responsible people will have to make a concrete decision and also assess which production is not appropriate and harmful, but they will be forced to pay so much more if they continue to produce. And this will have to be done sooner or later if we want to support healthy and those productions, as I mentioned earlier, such as the wood industry. We have virtually no listening to the wood industry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Lisec has the floor to prepare Mr Uroš Prikl. Here you go, Mr. Fox.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u108	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Dear representatives of the Ministry, colleagues, colleagues, all one nice greeting! I must say that I will be happy to hear it again, even though we have received it in part when we have met with certain representatives of the Ministry of Finance in the parliamentary group, why this law is needed. And the second question, even in part, has been answered, we know that it is more political than substantive debates, and this answer is why the law on the mass valuation of property today on the bench, and the law on real estate tax will probably be another government, not before the year of conflict. Although I personally think that these two laws should be adopted and discussed at the same time, of course in both laws we can leave the so-called transitional and final provisions in order to allow the real estate tax law to allow time for the law on the mass valuation of real estate to be adopted and implemented in practice. And, yes, this law is necessary, because if we just look at not only the concepts that this law defines, it is a very substantive material matter that essentially affects every citizen, whether it be someone who owns, whether it be this forest, agricultural land, building land, a wally plot, a house, or perhaps not finally living in a block town, where it makes sense for people to listen to what is happening to this law and what is likely to happen to the property tax law. The following are also matters in this law, e.g. ways of evaluating the three ways of applying, the way of market comparisons, the way of yielding, and the way of purchasing value. I've had some personal problems here. The method of market comparisons. I am lucky to have a very capable real estate broker as Vice-President of the Municipal Committee. When I was interested in buying certain parcels myself and asked him what was crucial about the purchase of the plot, he said that the key three things were: location, location, location. When you make your decision about the location, I asked him what was the key. Three things: price, price, price. I said, "Yes and then what?" "Ah," he said, "here's the deal, John wants an X, Joze wants a Y, but here's the deal." When we know that there are also many speculations on real estate issues in particular, we have a problem with market comparison or, as it is written, it is a statistical reliable assessment of market value. If we have this aspect here, why does John have the title 100 and Jože, which has the title 101, make a house that same year, the houses are even about the same in the village, and one says, look, I got this calculation, the other one, and I get this calculation. And you both say yes, and my calculations aren't correct, and my calculations aren't correct. But if you ask whose calculation is correct, then you say both, yes, the value of my house is that, but the other says, yes, but in my opinion the value of my house is that. And then we have someone else who wants to buy it, and he says, yes, sir, my market value is the one I'm going to give for this house. In short, this market value is very controversial. Why am I reminding you of these things? Because this law will result in a real estate tax law. If in this law there is this very substantive material, which is also a recognition by the Ministry of Finance that you have reviewed the laws already in this area, you have even hoped to make them very subtle, because with certain matters we can then have problems not only in these sub-laws that you have prepared, but in the property tax. You know, people get upset about one euro at that tax, about two euros at that tax, about rising prices of three euros at those services, and so on. If we're talking about some real estate, where we have a few euro values for a few square meters of agricultural land, up to, for example, if we just look at some million-dollar online portal, and if we have problems with this valuation, with valuation models, then we can all fail. We only know one thing, the intention of the state is to collect as much as possible. When we say that the intention of the state is to collect as much as possible, we don't even know where this property tax will go. The next government, what this government has imagined the next government to do, can decide on at least three models. He can say that this tax goes into the state budget and leave us alone. One such autocratic authority would probably do that. One more moderate would have said, "Let's give half to the congregations, half to the state." Most likely, however, it would be fair to go immediately back to the municipal budgets. There will probably be problems there, because some municipal councillors will say, "Look, it's not wise to throw everything into an integral budget, because then the mayor works with this money as he wants." However, if you put in some dedicated resources, open up certain items and say, say, 10% of the property tax will go exclusively to this segment, 10% to this segment, and a certain part may also be to the integral budget, things are already much more acceptable. Even for people who pay taxes. If someone pays a few thousand Euros of tax, knowing that he will pay in the municipal budget, it will probably be a lot easier to pay, even though he'll wonder why he'll say, okay, at least he'll know each other. Then we can ask the congregation to arrange this road to settle the matter. In short, people feel much more than in the state budget, as some have even suggested, participatory adoption of the budget. When we look at these articles here, the evaluation model component, the evaluation model guidance criteria, then I wrote down further, there are a lot of these substantive moments in this law, which I really hope the Law and Law Service will give concrete answers whether everything is okay or not. Then, above all, this is an appeal to the bill's proponents and coalition MPs, because it is up to you to look at the legislative and legal service, their opinion as if it should not be necessary, but rather a substantive matter that matters are technically regulated. There is no point in having problems with sub-legal acts and then with property taxes, especially we all hope that we will not have any negative experiences with the Constitutional Court and their decisions together. Here in this law I wrote down two more articles, the participation of the congregations. The municipalities shall cooperate in the preparation of a proposal for evaluation models. The municipalities shall be invited to make their comments within 30 days of the date of receipt to the evaluation body. We now know about the operation of the congregation. We have super mayors, super municipal councils that have adopted budgets in October, November. We have municipalities and mayors who have adopted municipal spatial plans, but we also have mayors and municipal councils who accept budgets according to how many financial structures they are undermining, and they save them more than they are, and we also have mayors who, at the mention of the municipal spatial plan, are unconscious because they say, they just don't give it to her, because for five years, six years, seven years we've been dealing with it. Or we have mayors who accept municipal spatial plans, put them in the lowest drawer, and then they have no idea what was going on with them, because they had no idea what they wanted to do with the municipal spatial plan. So I'm wondering here when you're talking about community participation, what it means for the municipalities, and probably what it means financially for the municipalities, or whether this 30-day deadline, given that you're talking about this law, and then it's just a property tax, maybe a little short. You know, except for some extraordinary congregation meetings, usually once a month or usually nine times to a maximum of ten times, the congregation councils meet. If they're invited and within 30 days, I'm afraid the mayors will be taking the matter more left-hand. And if there is yet a short period of time, something that the congregations will even be willing to cooperate on will come to the fore. So perhaps, distinguished representatives of the ministry, a little more about what is expected of the congregations, both substantively and financially, and what can the congregations expect of you — perhaps some help? Or will it be more one-way communication, arrange for congregations, send them? Is the ministry going to intervene and settle things? The second thing we have discussed in part is the identification of a special circumstance. It says here what are the types of circumstances, who are entitled and what are the special circumstances. Today, a slightly larger state project or situation has already been mentioned, which is likely to have a significant impact not only on that concrete land, but also on a slightly broader context within the place, within the municipality, perhaps within the region. I have to say that for the last five days I've been thinking about how the Ministry of Environment and Space can say that in the settlements of that stream in Kamnik near Kemis there are cancerous substances, but if people don't drink it, and if it doesn't come to the underworld, it's a great thing. And let us leave aside the environmental health problem that such an event does. Look at the price of real estate. Or the Magna case. Some will say they will raise prices for real estate, some say they will evaluate prices. On the other hand, let us look at a concrete example from Posavje. I'm from Sevnica. The Krsko nuclear power plant. When I was in high school in Brežice, I saw her twice every day. Those of us who have a little knowledge of energy say, right, great that we have a nuclear power plant, right that we have something else in Posav. But if you ask people who live nearby, you will see their opinion. I know the example of the country buying so much agricultural land through the company and, above all, the real estates of the inhabitants there for the sake of enlargement, because of the landfill that were estimated by Gurs. For crying out loud! Almost nothing worth it. Fortunately, then this state-owned company was so local, environmental and, I'll say, healthy-minded that it gave people some moderate price for these properties or assured them that, for the price they value, they would place another house or such a stake in them. In these specific circumstances, it is important to be very careful because I am interested in who will determine when it says that under a particular circumstance the following conditions must be: "that the overall value of the valuation unit, which is affected by a specific circumstance, should be changed by at least 20% or by more than 200 000 euro". I think this second part, for more than 200 000 euros, I'm thinking so little by little, put it out. 20% is 20%. If, for example, a hectare of agricultural land, where something happens in its vicinity, the price of this land is 20% of the specific situation. Or if it's some object that's worth millions of dollars. Because I don't understand whether for at least 20 projects or more than 200,000 euros. This means de facto that for every 20% more, or this only means for those with 200 000 euros. And I'm going back to Janez and Jozet. For someone named John, who Gurs has estimated the value of the property to EUR 100,000 and there is a situation at this level of 20%, for every euro, I will not say that for 10 or 100 or a thousand euros, he will see how much he will change the value of the property. If we know here that it is this human factor, what will happen, then we need to think very carefully about how to give a special circumstance and how to evaluate it. Before I go to the agricultural work, I am the Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and receive a large number of letters not only because of this law but also because of other matters in the agricultural field. I hope that Mrs Desus was earlier wrong when she said where the parallel of the two laws is, that both laws, namely the law on the mass valuation of property and the law on property taxes, are being treated simultaneously in the SDS Group. I think that's what I heard. If that is true, honourable Members of the coalition, today I ask you publicly what you have done to make this happen or whether or not it does not hold what is no longer a public secret, but we all know that the President of your party has demanded that he be a political cat with words like that, if there is no way that we can adopt the real estate tax law in this mandate, that the next government should adopt him when it wants to. Today, you said in your position that you regret that you are not both marriages in front of us at the same time. And I want to know what the truth is. Or the truth is, as is usually the case, that one word before the public is "we regret" and, in the back, that there is no chance of acceptance in this mandate, because the national elections, the property tax, "people will tear us apart". Here I would probably even support this thesis that Karl Erjavec, as someone who is a man for all governments, has even negotiated this in the government. But let the Members of the coalition say something about this, and perhaps, above all, the Members of Desus. Now I'm going to go to the farm. I've got two pieces of information. I must say that we are very well co-operated as a committee and as the chairman of the committee with the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber of Slovenia. Here I have the material from July 24, 2017. The Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber proposes that agricultural and forestry land be taken into account as specific production means. And then the Government in the Proposal for a Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estate did not take into account the main positions of the Agricultural and Economic Chamber and so on. And I'm interested, as I say, here's the date of July 24, 2017, or since July, that's three months later something has changed. But why do I think it hasn't changed much? It's a 30-year-old letter. 9th, when they made quite a few comments at the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber. And I want to know what's been done. Why I am talking about agriculture, as a special topic, with all due respect for the economy, and for the natural persons, and for the local communities, I am speaking because I have a law before me that this government, which has given the farmer a new tax. It's called the Cadastrian Income Act, where we've heard that it's not going to be about raising taxes, it's not going to be about raising taxes. What's the key? Farmers wonder whether, in addition to the cadastral income law, we will receive a new tax, the real estate tax law. In short, two taxes. Will it be possible for us to adopt a real estate tax law as soon as possible on the date of the next term, since this is a fact that you do not do the first year, then you will miss the remaining three years, will this law withdraw, or will the real estate tax law fail the area of agriculture and rural areas? And most importantly, farmers are afraid, and I will use an ugly word, such as Article 16 of the Cadastrian Income Law, which states: "In 2017, the cadastral income and flat-rate income assessment on bees are attributed to 40%, in 2018 to 55% and in 2019 to 75% of the cadastral income and flat-rate income estimates on bees. " And if we know how to calculate cadastral income, we know what farmers can expect in 2019. But in 2019 and 2020, when they count for 2019, there will probably not be any elections, nor will there be any similar or at least the same government, and so on. Therefore, they fear that instead of making sweet promises to the property tax, they will receive inwards such horrors as was written in this law. And if we know that the Farmers' Chamber, the Farmers' Union, in particular the Forest Owners' Union, has pointed to a problem called the growth coefficient when they had amendments to this topic in the Cadastrian Income Act in terms of, look, because you don't even know what you're going to be counting on us, and now they have a lot of problems in practice, when they have to prove for themselves that what is actually calculated is not what is in practice on the ground. We all know what the growth coefficient is, the data on the production capacity of the forest. And if we look at our forest, it is likely that if the affair with the skullr goes so far that the entire forest will need such legal disciplines as the legal dictatorship special circumstances, because almost every other forest in the Republic of Slovenia has definitely been reduced in the last two, three years due to the cyclist who has arrived almost everywhere. They already had it in Koroška this year, I was at Pokluka, farmers worked conscientiously and so on. I want to know when you're thinking in the second phase of the real estate tax law, what's going to happen to the cadastral income. And the last thing I want to know about the cadastral income and forests is whether you have cooperated with the Slovenian National Forests company in this law. I will personally monitor very closely, as we monitor the operation of this company, what will be the estimated values of similar forests owned by Janez or owned by the Slovenian State Forests, because we have very poor experience. In particular, I can bring and have already brought to the committee individual evidence that when a country wants something from an individual, this property is worth almost nothing. When this John wants something from the country, from the Agricultural Land Fund, if you want it directly, or probably from the Slovenian State Forests, the country is very unwelcome. For example, when farmers want to buy a plot from the Agricultural Land Fund, Gurs estimated the square metre of 4 euros. When we asked for almost a year when we didn't know who the real addressee was within all the departments, within the ministries, both for agriculture and for public administration, we finally got an answer. Yes, the country is willing to sell, but not at the market value or at the Gursium value of 4 euros per square metre, the country wanted to sell for this square metre of land out there, I won't dare say, God beyond the feet, 40 euros per square metre. And that's for some land that was filled with branches, because that area is on some stream. So much for talking about this market value and what John is as a private person and what Miro Cerar as a government or Miro Cerar as a country in this case. That is why I want all of us to listen together in the next stages not only to the Legislative and Legal Service, but above all to all these housing organisations. From agriculture, I can list ten of them, and probably from other areas, especially spatial and environmental areas, so that we can be very subtle about what we will write in this law. For, once again, this law will be the foundation, and we cannot be blinded by this law on property taxes, and if we are wrong here, we will be far more wrong about that law. You know how the country is usually wrong — almost never to its detriment. It is nice that we have this law in the procedure, not least because we have a decision by the Constitutional Court and we need to respect and process that decision. But I regret with bitter regret that the Ministry of Finance did not withdraw from the drawer, because it is said that there are huge legal drafts of the real estate tax law, when, through this valuation, it is possible to calculate in concrete terms the financial effects in practice. Believe me, this is what people expect most, and this is what people fear the most, so it is likely that the political move of this government or at least a certain part of this government, which said that we will not see the real estate tax law in this mandate because there is no courage. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr Tillen Christmas, Secretary of State, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u110	Thank you for your word. In this debate, which I think has been very constructive so far, a number of questions have been raised, concerns, comments to respond to. And maybe I'd start with the last one, because the impressions are even fresher. So, first of all, there was once again some debate on this, it is said, about the first part, the second part, as regards the property tax approach, that I would only mention one thing that is, I think, interesting to you, but also in the future, when this is decided. If we go to look at the NUSZ area, the correct tax rates for buildings were one estimate that there were not about 20 to 30 % of the data, and that is why it is not collected wherever it should be. However, these records are in the municipality domain. When we come to the property tax area and what we are trying to deal with now with ZMVN, it is said by the Law on the mass valuation of real estates, to make these records even more complete, we can say that there is a central record, from which it can be derived, still in the light of past experience, even what happened with the previous introduction, exists both in the public and among the different stakeholders, and not least between you some doubts and doubts whether we are already prepared or whether we have the relevant data and so on. It will also allow these data to be updated, further verified to raise quality in such a way that when there is a discussion of what is going to be done with the property tax, whose solutions are put in, we and also the team from the Ministry of Environment and Space or Gursa and the Office of Mass Valuation will be able to give appropriate simulations to any questions that arise and say: “Okay, this group, this type of property, this area, such consequences.” For my understanding, when it comes to such important matters as taxes, it is extremely important that these data with which we will then or will be – we will see if I can still work on it – you can certainly provide such information so that you can be properly informed so that you can make the right decisions in this regard. This service, which will then be provided by the Government, will be better for the needs of these decisions. This was followed by a location-price, hence the word speculation. I also take this into account in the way that it is expected to be around the end of November, I hope that today, if it is assessed that the law is suitable for further consideration, this is also being considered by the Committee. We will, I can give the floor, prepare a few presentations that we could also present with the prospectuses to see how the data on these transactions are collected, viewed, analysed and taken into account. For those who are found to be speculative, non-representative or, when they are subject to a field inspection, find that they do not reflect the actual situation. In many cases, there is a transaction that says that the land was sold, but there may have been some other real estate on it, such as concrete property, and vice versa. Today, Mr Mitrović is also with us in the Chamber, who is watching this closely, and I believe that he will then be able to present these things very well on the Committee, so that you will see in detail how these matters are being carried out, that they are to the greatest extent excluded from those speculations, so that they do not affect the quality of the models. The following was also mentioned with regard to the Legislative-Legal Service of the National Assembly. I can say that we look forward to their view of solutions, both nominally and possibly other comments. I estimate that there will be plenty of time, so I think it is good, the law is going on a regular basis, next week is a regular meeting of the Committee on Finance, at which it will not be, as this would certainly be very fast. Then there will also be an opportunity to prepare the amendments for about a month, a month and a half to prepare themselves properly. As we have approached these openings, it is said that we have somehow tried to get information both to the coalition Members and to the opposition Members, in this regard we will also be open in the future, because the goal is, as has already been said, to look together for the best possible solutions. With regard to cooperation with the congregations, on the one hand, the interest of the municipalities, which have this view forward as a source to be held in the future and exclusively by them, is a need for records to be regulated so that they have some certainty in the future. So far, cooperation with them, including what has been said in general, has not been limited to the comments of the municipalities, which were 46, but at least more than 80% of them have been taken into account. So it went right through, looked up, and where it could be done, it was taken into account. They are very good, I must admit, and a crooked interlocutor, because they have an insight into what is happening on the ground very good, and we also face it because you mentioned it, Mr Lisec, it is said as far as the UN is concerned and so on. They see where those moments can come from. This is also why marriage solutions are designed so that when we talk about communication, divisiveness, and so on, we are involved in some kind of cooperation. So when the decomposition comes, representatives of the local unit, Gurs, will be there to help do it, not just by sending something to the municipalities, and then waiting for it to happen, it will, but to go into it together. As far as the existing solutions in the ZMVN are concerned, this cooperation has been envisaged in some way so far. This data was sent, and it was provided in this way. However, something more is envisaged, and this need for further cooperation is recognised. Far from it being easy. As far as special circumstances are concerned, you mentioned 20% and 200,000 euros respectively. This is some kind of so-condition, it's the one that's first met. Example. If you have a property worth €2 million and it is 10% of that €200,000, it is said to be less than 20% change, in which case you can still go into the application of these special circumstances. It may also be part of a future debate on whether these percentages, milestones and so on are properly set. Surely there can be another good debate on this subject. As far as agricultural work is concerned. Yeah, I'm sure there's two things going on here. I would draw two things that, in my opinion, are crucial for us to know where some kind of thinking is being fucked or a different approach to thinking. One is to exchange what the value of the property is in relation to the tax, one is to separate it. Thus, when we look at evaluation, we value everything and in some ways understand the way that it is as close as possible to the market values it can achieve. On the other hand, if we talk far further about the tax area, but somehow we look at the fact that on the one hand we have a tax on property, it is based on the value of the property, how much it would be taxed, and on the other hand the question of a tax on income is said to be cadastral income. Even if we go to watch cadastral income, regardless of what you also mentioned as a gradual increase, you have mentioned, this is, regardless of all, when the above amount is reached in 2019, it is still significantly below the economic calculation, which is an estimate of how much a land, some land, whatever, from itself income can or will create within one year. Nevertheless, it is that step of understanding, or I can also say some special treatment and a special feeling of the Ministry of Finance in doing so, these things are still in time, historically speaking, acknowledged, some special solutions, some a system of continuous positive discrimination precisely because we are aware of the importance of self-sustainment, the preservation of the country and so on. So that even in future discussions, when this is certain to happen, anyone, as previously said, may stand in this place. When we talk or talk about the tax, it will be legitimate debates, and that will be exactly what is said from a political point of view, not politics, but actually politics, the priority of this country in the future, how to decide in a specific case. With regard to the impact of possible ownership on the price, ownership models can be said to be disregarded. It is the determination of the indicators, the determination of the weightings and the impact on the price. Whether it is owned by John or Tomaž or Tillen or by a state company, this will not be affected. Indeed, mass valuation, according to the technical law, regardless of circumstances that are not, could be said to be marketable, is said to affect the market price, but will not take them into account. Another matter may still be with the municipalities when we started this debate somehow. One of the important points to which the congregations have also been alerted is certainly worth mentioning that only the information already available is being used. That's what the official records say. Based on these, it was found that these data can also be used to make good models. From here on out, there will probably be some other data that may be taken into account in improving the quality of these models in a few years. When we talk about communal land equipment, it was found that they do not yet have this information, which would be reliable to be used for mass valuation. He'll probably be available in a few years. There's definitely this spatial package of legislation that will somehow add these development phases, but that's where we've been separated for a few years. When it is available, it is certain that there is something more to be done about it. As far as the purpose and eligibility of this use are concerned, how much data we have and so on. Currently, about two thirds of the municipalities have adopted the municipal spatial plan. The vast majority of the remaining are preparing to do so, because they themselves are aware that regulating the space benefits both their citizens and some of the development potential that the municipality can achieve. For this reason, we also assess that this approach is appropriate. As for the buildings that are in the cadastral, through all the discussions that we have had with the various stakeholders, it has been found that unrecognition can be said to this building, it is strange to say that it is not a problem, but that these buildings are registered in the real estate register, and there are also certain solutions that allow this to be improved, and control will also be established over the quality of these data. So here I think it was somehow a realistic assessment of what can and will be followed by these marriage solutions. A few words were still about what we call a simplified forest, a growth coefficient, and so on. This is to be determined on the plot. Slovenia is divided into approximately 60,000 growth coefficient polygons. It is designated by the Institute of Forests. As part of the preparation of the model, they also participated, so I am somehow convinced that solutions in this regard should also be appropriate, and certainly with appropriate possible representation on the committee, if they are invited or will decide to participate, they can also give this operational aspect of why they think that these solutions are also somehow appropriately addressed. What things have been mentioned here across the street do not concern so much this area. Perhaps I would mention, however, that, as far as basic activities are concerned, there is no deposit of accounts, nor is there any obligation of fiscalisation and so on. There's also the first processing that's now within the cadastral income, but I wouldn't go into it. As far as the various envisaged exemptions are concerned, or anything like that. Once again, I'd say the value will be set for everyone. How, in the future, this will be applied, for which purposes, is another thing. In my opinion, however, this is a prerequisite for a substantive discussion of this at all. So if we have a group of debtors or owners on the one hand, we need to first see what they have to do to determine by simulations whether their argument is justified or not. I am also pleased that many have pointed out that there is support for somehow regulating this situation, that this has been recognised. In relation to the intended use, there are certain comments on the spot, but I have already commented earlier on why I think that we have resolved this matter properly. Especially when we're talking about market price. Purposeful use, it is said that the most appropriate use is the one that tells you how much the market value of this property should then be. The municipalities are the ones who will take care of what they do with the spatial plan. And from here on out, if there is a decision that someone has also made a speculative decision to change their status or purpose for some land, let us say, in some reasonable way, it will be possible to return to the previous situation with some relatively short procedures, if this is warranted. Of course, no one in the center of a city or village can decide that what will suddenly become land again for the purpose, but in some marginal area where perhaps, I will not say, speculate, but perhaps predict that there will be a settlement, and now you can see that in the next 10, 20 years nothing will happen, it can change again back to what the original purpose was. This possible proportionality was also mentioned, somehow parallel to the tax, but it is true that if we look at the existing NUSZ, there can also be multiple, more than ten, more than one hundred, eventually several thousand times the difference in how a building land is treated according to the zone, according to the congregation. From the point of view of some proportionality and fairness, there is certainly a general approach, which would later appear with a property tax, more fair to citizens and allowing, because it is also noticeable on the ground and also from judicial decisions, it is evident that it is sometimes a matter of self-determination, given that they lack arguments and why the NHRI in a given area points in one way or another, why it is also so difficult. I think that'll be all for now. And then there's the extra. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr Uroš Prikl has the floor to prepare Mr Janko Weber and Mrs Vojka Shergan. Here you go, Mr. Prickl.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Let me begin with one sentence... "Which cunts poison snake, he's afraid of twisted ropes." Why am I saying this? I am speaking because the Real Estate Tax Act of the previous term has already been observed, and I hope to say this, one clairvoyant fate at its final stage. Of course, this is also one of the reasons why in the Desus Group we are somewhat detained under the proposed law on mass property valuation. Let's do it in a row. That the current situation in the area of local self-government, when it comes to collecting municipal duties, taxes, a few, I hope almost, chaotic or inadequate, is probably a fact. In the area of the collection of compensation for the use of building land, I am sure it is necessary to make quite one essential thing not to say tectonic change, one recast. And let this word, which I like to use at the systemic level, be forgiven, yes, at the systemic level, I need to do this reconstruction. It is necessary to establish such records that will be credible, which will be of quality, which will reflect the actual situation, since only on the basis of such correct and concrete values will duties be properly and specifically collected. The matter will be transparent, fair and even fair. But it's a long way to go. At the same time, it is also likely to be necessary to ensure that there are as few administrative barriers as possible. That is why I have repeatedly stressed when it comes to talking to the municipalities, talking to the local self-government in correlation with both the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Public Administration, that they should listen to the municipalities for God's sake. They don't have to give them any more money, but here's where we keep going so that someone doesn't get me wrong if they don't get any more money, which would otherwise be very good and right, then they should be burdened with some other stuff. Let them be burdened with some administrative, I will allow myself to say unnecessary tasks and activities, and we will all be satisfied in the end. However, we are all, including Members, who come from a local environment and we are somehow more or less attached to it. If the records are inadequate here, however, there is a rather unregulated area of compensation for the use of building land and some changes need to be made, what new steps need to be taken. I hope to say that a step in this direction to properly evaluate property in the territory of the whole country is certainly a bold move, is a step in the right direction. Whether this will be the basis for new records, for a new platform, for the collection of compensation for the use of building land, or whether this is the basis for the expected real estate tax, is, of course, another issue. I have to say here that this enthusiasm or this corruption, if you want to translate it into the Ministry of Finance, especially with our former colleague, Ambassador Christmas, is certainly worth it. I believe that if they are sincere intentions, I wish, and I hope that they are such, in the end, there can be no just solution. What is a just solution is the optimal upgrade of the existing system and that we will come to such a law that will not inferiorize individuals, especially those vulnerable target groups to which I will return, and that we will not, but here I speak in the first person of the crowd, put in a worse position those who do not come from the capital or, if you want, those who come from northeastern Slovenia who are always neglected. Pika. There's nothing to discuss here. Of course, I would like to see real estate owners become more involved, actively involved. Last but not least, this is the content of what the Constitutional Court has said, both in the process of adopting evaluation models and the possibility of opposition, the possibility of change, if you want to, sometimes it is difficult for me to focus on just one word or one sentence, so that there are active members to actively co-operate in these evaluation and scoring processes. With regard to the calculations themselves, we also had representatives in the parliamentary group, and today there are plenty in the National Assembly, and it is only right that you are enough here to support Christmas when you came to our parliamentary group, you were even more inappropriate, the whole of you were. And that, too, was very commendable. You've presented these matters very correctly. But let me remind you, we in Desus, and I believe that the vast majority of the constituency members are not experts in this area. If you ask me now whether I can with a few sentences or with a semi-precious treatise, what is the methodology that you have used or will use it, I am here a very difficult correctional interlocutor. In other words, many or a large majority of the citizens of this country are not so educated in this area or, in other words, this methodology and this real estate valuation system is a very complicated matter. Let me be allowed to do this, this is a very kung fu thing. It is not to be expected that we will all deal long and wide with this and that in detail we will understand this system. This is probably not what citizens of this country are expected to do either. What happens next? The consequence is that we will probably have to believe what the developer of this property valuation tells us. I'm not going to say blindly trust you, but then she only throws at the Institute of One Complaint. Remember, representatives of the Ministry of Finance, what we told you at the time. At first we listened very carefully to you, and in the end we told you, okay, now it's the first reading, so that this tension might make a little difference, we in Desus will be in the first stage, in the first reading of the proposal of this law will support. But, believe me, that doesn't mean we're going to support the marriage in the final stage. Remember what we told you at the time, and we still expect it, we demand, we demand more than we expect you to present some calculations to us at the final stage of a simulation. If the underlying hypothesis or the basic basis for the recast of existing legislation is not to change substantially, in other words, in order to avoid further burdens, to further affect both natural persons and legal entities and also farmers, then we expect that this new law will not make any drastic radical changes. If we don't see this simulation, and if there's no change, then, forgive me for simplicity, the fundamental question is why we're going into any changes if nothing changes. What do we expect now? I personally expect that there will be no additional burden, I must say this again in this place, both for natural persons, except for those with enormous, huge quantities or real estate items, that there will be no more wallpaper on the economy here, so that, if hypothetically added, it will be even less competitive, and that even the most vulnerable target groups here will not suffer any additional inconveniences. As it is said, we expect these calculations, even more, we also expect simulations of how this will affect the individual social and economic segment, either new valuation, as in the final stage, and what follows at the end of everything, that is a property tax. One more thing, because I promised in the beginning that I would return to vulnerable groups. Yeah, 'cause I like to come back because I'm forced in my shows to pay particular attention to that. What are vulnerable groups? Vulnerable groups are those who, unfortunately, cannot afford a better tomorrow alone under such or other circumstances and depend in some way on the state. I find with great sadness that there are more and more representatives of older generations in this area. On this occasion, colleagues and colleagues, I would like to place my heart on you once again, that due to changes in the area of property valuation – we know that quite a nice number of older people, normally, are owners of real estate, and this older generation has given up thirty, forty and more years, from the mouth of the bread, that it is possible to create a property – that they will not be in a worse position now. And here I warn you, there's no playing with people's fate. Here simply for my taste accounting logic, mathematical logic does not play that key role. We will be here if marriage goes the way we want, on the path we want, and in every way we strive to make exceptions. Desus is not a customer who would be satisfied with a few percent increase in pensions, but with some kind of regression. You can't buy us with that. We want the right situation in society of all generations, now I have spent a little more time with the older generation because it is normal that after so many years of creating older generations have some real estate, but it has not fallen from the sky that has not been from God's day. I'm sorry about the comparison. They've got it tight. At the same time, we do not want the middle generation and the younger generation to be deprived of such or other legal solutions. So, my dears, first-reading support on our side goes. We are very careful, even though we are not all here in this Chamber, we are very closely following this debate. I see that very carefully the representatives of Gursa are listening to me, and also the other colleagues, who I am sure want well, want a good passenger for this and those other laws that will probably come in the next term. Let them listen well, to take these suggestions in good faith, including criticism, if any, even on my part, and prepare a law that will not be discriminatory, so that we can be proud of it by both the preparers or the executive branch of power as we legislators. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u113	Procedurally, Mr. Tomaž Lisec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u114	Thank you, President for your word. I'm sorry, Urosh, I think we're pretty good friends, but in Desus you forget one thing. You were in the coalition when we passed the Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estate, which was partially annulled by the Constitutional Court, you were in government when we adopted the Real Estate Tax Act. 15. 11. 2013, the time was 6:35:47, third reading, voting, obstruction of SDS, quorum 54, for 56, also coalition for. Therefore, honourable Presidents, I propose that, given that we are obviously in the last six months, when we are all competing, how we are all best to alert the people who have a backpack behind them to remember this backpack. Please give second warning to those who talk about how this should be done, so that they have the opportunity to make a lot of changes, but they are not. At that time, we discussed only 19 hours of real estate tax — from firefighters to farmers, socially endangered, craftsmen. Read the magnetogram of what the views were back then. Therefore, Madam Vice-President, in order to avoid this praise for what someone has done, you have the opportunity as chairman to remind someone that he has ever had a chance, but he has not taken advantage of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u115	Thank you very much, Mr. Tomaž Lisec. I will accept this initiative of yours as well-meaning. It did not seem to me that it would be exactly part of the procedural proposals, but I can already see that the gentleman is answering, so I will give my word. Mr. Uroš Prikl, procedurally, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u116	Tomaž, I don't have to apologize, for the first time. Secondly, that we're pretty good friends, I totally agree with you. Thirdly, this is now the essential part, I have no backpack, but it is true that I started my debate with the saying that whoever gets stabbed by a poisonous snake is afraid of twisted ropes. Indeed, at that time the Desus Group voted in favour of such a law. Finally, it turned out that my colleagues in Desus were not careful at the time. That's why we'll be even more careful this time. Throughout my entire debate, there was no reflection on the back, but I was talking about the law that is currently in the debate that we are currently discussing. As I said, I would like to see that this law is properly prepared and does not create any barriers between the individual target groups and that it is adapted to all citizens and citizens and also to all business entities such or different. I really don't see any reason to go back and bet on what was done, what was done, what was done, what was not done. Let's squeeze all our energy here and appeal to the law-makers, which is the government or on its behalf, the Ministry of Finance to prepare an amended law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u117	This, too, did not seem procedural to me, but I suggest that we proceed with our work, so I give the floor to Mr Janko Webr, to prepare Mrs Vojka Shergan and Mr Roberto Battelli. Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u118	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! The Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estate will have very serious consequences for most owners who have less valuable properties. The Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estates will determine the average value of real estate and those with a higher average value of real estate will therefore pay lower taxes and those with a lower average value of real estate will pay a higher tax on this property. If I simplify, the poor will pay for the richer. This is why social differences in Slovenia will increase, and this is certainly not the goal, especially when we have concluded today's debate on the 22nd regular report on the work of the Ombudsman, where it is very clear in the Ombudsman's report as in the Council of Europe's position on the state of human rights in the Republic of Slovenia that after 2008, poverty, i.e. after the financial and economic crisis, has increased particularly among children from socially disadvantaged families, older, long-term unemployed and also regularly employed, and warns that this has reduced the right to work, food, education, health and adequate living standards. The Council of Europe is on the state of human rights in the position and has specifically called on us to take poverty not only as a social policy issue but as a general protection of human rights. I have the feeling that the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of the Environment and Space, which are somehow the creators of this law on the mass valuation of property, are obviously not following these recommendations by the Council of Europe. Apparently, the government has again taken decisions not to take into account these warnings about poverty in Slovenia. If I go further, the most vulnerable groups, or the percentage or number of people living below the poverty line, 83 thousand pensioners, 61 000 unemployed, 50 000 working hours, but with an extremely low salary, 46 000 children under the poverty threshold, and 40,000 other or incapacitated to work, households, students and other inactive persons, a total of 234 000 people live below the poverty threshold this very moment in Slovenia. If we look at the data, how many of them are right over that threshold, we're going to get 400 thousand. And you come by law to the National Assembly, which will overly burden those with a lower value of real estate. What's gonna happen? They'll be forced to sell this property if they want to pay taxes. When you are forced to sell your property, you sell it at a substantially lower price than you would have sold it when a moment occurred to decide that you do not need it for such or other reasons. But when you're forced to, because you can't pay too much taxes, sell the property, and sell it at a low price. And who's gonna make money here? The speculators who collect such properties and the richest layer that will eventually want to reach these properties. This is a state in which the law on the mass valuation of real estate leads, so I will not support it and is actually harmful for the vast majority of property owners in Slovenia. In particular, older ones will be affected here. We know that pensions are lower than wages, despite the fact that in the last period we have slightly rectified the minimum pension to EUR 500, but this is still a smaller amount than the poverty threshold. And we still don't have decent pensions, we still don't have decent wages. Older people who for years have given up many of their homes will be affected by this law. For the first time, because the higher value of the property will also be included in the social contributions or aid they receive and will therefore have smaller contributions or even lose them. Young people might even get a scholarship for this. The older population will be extremely affected. And if we look at a younger population that's just making up their lives, their careers, what's gonna happen to them. Under this law, if they become owners of an apartment or even go to the construction of an apartment house or buy an older property and redecorate it, they will raise its value, taxed. What encouragement is there for a young man to solve his housing problem when he knows that he is facing a tax on this property? And because this property will be young, I suppose under the average value, it will pay an inappropriately high tax for this. And since he's probably going to have to rent a loan, he's probably going to be taxed on these chalks. He'll pay off the loan plus the property tax. This is a completely inappropriate approach to the younger generation as well. So the principles you introduce by this law are actually destructive. Even when we look at the congregations, I am surprised that there is no greater response from the congregations. But this saying that the compensation for the use of building land is something out of date, respected, in times of economic and financial crisis, the municipalities survived this crisis precisely because they were compensated for the use of building land. It was not related to the value of the property. This law also binds the congregations to have such incomes as the value of the property in that year. When it's a crisis, the property value goes down. As a result, the budgets of the municipalities fall and consequently the municipalities will reduce the standard of people in such a situation as the State budget, where we cut social rights. Slovenia survived this crisis only because the municipalities had, to a large extent, since the municipalities had been compensated for the use of building land, which is a tax because you use some land on which you built a house and no one else can use it. That's why you pay this compensation for restricting the use of this land to others. And that's an adjustment tax, and it's only right that we pay it. However, if it comes to the fact that the municipalities will be bound to the value of real estate, you have also disrupted the balance in local self - government and deprived them of their autonomy. The municipalities thus lose their autonomy because the state will determine this value of real estate. And where do the congregations today have problems? Right at the point where the state also determines the value of the principal. They don't have that kind of trouble anywhere else. At the head of so many years after the economic and financial crisis, they still do not get as much as they do under the Community Financing Act. And now we are adding another additional criterion for real estate, which will always be speculative in times of crisis. Even when people sell their properties mass, because they cannot pay taxes, property values will fall. The budgets of the municipalities are also falling. This is a very serious intervention in local government as well. The harmful consequences of this law are such that it is simply not possible, at least I will not support it. If I look at some other information that I have at my disposal. What was the ratio of compensation for the use of building land, how much tax was paid, say, by citizens, and how many companies or capital owners. It is likely that this ratio is still true that some citizens and citizens paid one-fifth to one-quarter of the value of the compensation for the use of the building land for their lands where they have a home, four-fifths or three-quarters of it were paid by companies, or by capital owners, from real estate that generate income. So it was more or less at this point those who generate income from real estate, i.e. the owners of capital. I assume that this law on the mass valuation of real estate will significantly increase the burden on citizens and citizens and put capital back on the table. And this is the next step, which, however, we must make very clear and ask where we are going, where we are taking the country, where we are taking people. So simple capital is getting more and more from citizens and citizens than most citizens and citizens. And this is that destructive mechanism, which must in fact be rejected in this law on the mass valuation of property. Only two more information from the law's interpretation. See, at this point, municipalities have minimum costs, they have costs of collecting compensation for the use of building land. To put an end to this, they will have a problem with the people who are doing this in the congregations today. What will happen to these people, the law does not give this answer. On the other hand, the State foresees two million additional costs already in 2017, 2018 for establishing these records, for communication with people. As a result of the introduction of the mass valuation of real estate, the costs rise to two million in just two years and then to 600 thousand in all subsequent years due to software. There's an extra job to be done. 200 grand a year is going to be extra jobs. So we raise administrative costs, we increase public spending. This is a very negative effect of this law when we look at the economy, which must create a gross domestic product and value added. And also this information, please delete from the law, 120 billion is worth all assets in Slovenia. No country shall publish this information. Are we selling Slovenia? No State shall publish this information as to the value of the property in a country. We quietly write this down and talk about the value of our assets being worth 120 billion. Yes, a mighty man will come and say, and I would buy Slovenia, why not? And I'm not going to say twice that we won't have either a government president or a state president who would say yes, but let's sell it, but that's really not the kind of information that goes into that kind of law. [[…]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u119	Mrs. Vojka Shergan has the floor. Mr Roberto Battelli, Mr Franz Jurša and Mag. Marco Pogačnik. And that's it for now. Mrs. Private Shergan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u120	Thank you for your word. Today we have a general debate on the proposal for a law on the mass valuation of property. It is right that we are discussing, it is right to express our concerns, questions, because it is only by doing so that the law, which is to be adopted further, I will also say improvements in order to take the proposals into account. However, it also seems to me that when we get answers and arguments to these concerns, we should listen to them and think about them before we discuss them negatively again. That the law was demanding and its beginning, the system of mass valuation was developed within the framework of a project financed by the World Bank’s loan from 2000 to 2005, gave its starting point not only for mass valuations but for a comprehensive renovation of the real estate system. It is said that this debate and, in fact, the construction of this legislation is not new, it has had a beard for quite a long time. I would also mention that, in fact, Janez Janš's first government has already begun to establish this law and that the purpose and purpose are actually the same today. Article 1 of this proposal is the same as in 2006 and we are only improving its basis today. In fact, I see this as a technical law setting out the model for the valuation of real estates, and I see it as a system law whose aim is to determine, at the same time, similar properties as well as to determine the market value as accurately as possible. Therefore, the objective of mass valuation is to provide a qualitative assessment of the market value of real estate. This includes all the criteria and principles of mass evaluation and represents the standard of mass evaluation. The decision on whether a State will establish a mass valuation system is not solely linked to the decision on the real estate taxation system. Here, in particular, I would like to stress once again that one is a system of mass valuation and the other is a system of property taxation. And today we are actually talking about a system of mass evaluation. This mass valuation system is multi-useable, in particular for public purposes, for the exercise of rights from public funds, especially for business purposes of banks, insurance undertakings and also for private purposes of buyers and real estate sellers. Perhaps I would like to raise a question here, and some answer expected us to say a little more about how this law will affect social transfers, what the law actually means in this sense. It also removes the findings of the Constitutional Court on the non-constitutionality of the law currently in force. And it is right that everything is actually regulated in law and not in law and that all those involved have the opportunity to appeal to the procedure itself. When it was also said how unfair this law is, how big a mistake is, I would still be discussing this — but is the NUSZ a righteous law? What about all the tenants today, all those socially endangered tenants? Yes, they pay NUSZ in individual municipalities. What about in this case? But then the congregations forgive that? Of course they forgive those with the lowest, but in fact all tenants pay the NUSZ, as I am aware of it. But if not, I want someone to fix me if I have this wrong information. Then another injustice that I see is that some municipalities, or few of them lately, do not even have this property tax in the sense of NUSZ. This is said to be the case that some legal entities in certain areas of this tax do not today. But then it's fair to, I don't know, some other congregation that has the highest NUSZ today, these two legal entities, not last but natural persons. Is that fair today? Even those who have a house today and have the lowest pension have an NUSZ charged. What about this? I believe that I will also get an answer today to this question of how this will be resolved in this law. That's why I don't think it is, two fellow debaters who were discussing, I don't know, I think we should ask ourselves in that sense. The lowest pension and today's NUSZ, Comrade Uroš. Today they are also obliged to pay NUSZ with the lowest pension. So we wouldn't say we're introducing a new tax with this law. It's not a new tax. This is just a change in the property tax, which I claim is unfair at the moment. What exists today through the NUSZ is unfair, so it is necessary to discuss in an integrated manner what is right and what is wrong and what the old system foresees and what the new real estate valuation law will actually allow. I believe that this model will be set up like this and I appeal to this at this point, because this is a general debate, however, that it goes on time into experimental calculations that will allow this insight in some way also on the ground, what it will bring to people. Last time this law was passed, and before he was even on the table, when you voted, as I recall, we were getting those calculations at home. They've really changed. Yeah, they did. But in a way, we were the ones who were monitoring the discussions at the time, and when we got those notifications home, we were able to monitor it. Those anomalies that occurred at the time for the same property, and so many calculations, I believe that this new model of evaluation will be eliminated. That's why it was about renovating the law. I think that at this point only this appeal is needed to really test this model, to see on the same properties, how it affects it, and I think from this point of view, if this is achieved, because it was the biggest mistake in the past. Those who were to pay this tax somehow did not have all the possibilities of complaint. These are the two basic things that marked the fall of the first law. So I believe that in all this time, if we take enough time, these anomalies will be eliminated and there will be no similar slips. How should improvements in this new law be reflected? Property data from official records should be used. Real estate will be valued in accordance with the most economical use reflecting market value, and models will be defined transparently because they are already defined by law in the essential elements. The evaluation models shall be maintained on a regular basis. In doing so, I would like to say that this will be very important in order to allow this valuation of real estate to be used in banks, insurance companies as well. This will be of great importance because, in fact, here you are also going in this direction, that whoever buys the property and takes the credit in the bank will not have to pay the pricer to evaluate this property, but that property value will already exist and the bank will be able to use it in lending to this borrower. And let's not forget that this is also a cost. You know, this kind of valuer costs about 300 euros for this average real estate today. And I said that over my thumb. And that must be a cost. When someone takes credit, this cost will be saved. We can't forget that either. It is therefore important that this model of evaluation is indeed maintained. Real estate owners are informed of new values when the valuation model changes. This is also very important for the owners to be informed. In the process of designing valuation models, a major role is entrusted to the public in the area of real estate valuation. Here, in fact, those who deal with real estate valuations as an expert public will be convinced, I also cooperate and comment. The law also guarantees property owners the right to object. That's what was constitutionally controversial. Once again, what brings a system of mass valuation of real estate. I would say that, in particular, the transparency of the real estate market, the single register of publicly accessible property data, the continuous monitoring of the real estate market, the publicly available valuation of the property value, reliable information for investors, the good information of the real estate market participants and the reduced possibility of non-market behaviour, the basis for sound business decisions, better performance of assets and information to guide spatial development. And there's something else that I don't think we've actually mentioned today or I haven't seen in the debates. Whenever we talk about excessive labour taxes, we have repeatedly said that these taxes need to be restructured in the sense of decommissioning the labour tax and burdening the assets. The general debate is also in this direction that somehow capital is burdened and burdened in some way. I see the proposal for a law on mass valuation as a good basis for adopting a real estate tax in the next term, and for the following governments to be able to continue to talk about how they will be able to work in some way. And we didn't talk about it today. And there's one more thing. When it came to the fact that capital must be burdened and that it is now the view that capital is not burdened and that natural persons will be more burdened. I do not think this will be the case, because companies are already taxed higher in NUSZ than in natural persons. At least in most congregations. I think that even further, when this new tax comes up, I don't think it's an item at all, at least I don't see it, but they will fix me if I think wrong that it's not a mass valuation model, because the proposal for mass valuation is the valuation of real estate. However, the percentage of the property tax will impose these obligations, and then the real relationship between natural persons and legal persons will have to be established. But I don't think that's the basis right now. I would have had so much today. There's something else I wanted to mention. Another advantage of this new law will be that today the property is taxed with three taxes — a property tax, a compensation for the use of building land and maintenance of forest roads. This is also being done in some way, and all of this is taxed on real estate. So it seems to me that all these things need to be considered very well in the future and not to be overthinking what is actually wrong and not true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u121	Before we proceed, I give the floor to the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Tiln Bozic, for certain explanations. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u122	Thank you for your word. A number of things have been exposed to such less interesting ones, but I am certainly obliged to give some kind of response so that it does not hang in the air, I can say, even an awkward statement. One comment on the complexity is the content of the law established by Mr Prikl, which is well founded, certainly, even with regard to citizens, to see this, understanding. Just because we know this is a complex matter, we have decided to open our doors. This is said to have also been the invitation of experts, either from the academic sphere or from securities assessors, not least within the country or public administration we have experts in this area. And they go inside and into things that have not been possible until now, not intentionally, but because this need has not been recognized. It is said that the black box, as regards models, will open up, be subject to criticism, will be made public and will also be open to experts to deliver their opinions. In this context, I believe that there will also be interesting discussions. This, too, will not be the last thing the media will collect, watch and so will we, the Ministry of Finance, as the Ministry of Environment and Space, Gurs, the Office of Mass Assessment, as well as professional associations, interest associations and the media, ensure that we translate these content into all the understandable language. But it will certainly be the only and the only, we can call it, a saving measure of results. So, does the price found on the basis of a model reflect the most the price that is somehow marketable? It was mentioned that this must be a law that would not discriminate. The law governing mass valuation is not discriminatory. He doesn't look at paint, he doesn't look at property, he doesn't look at it. It only sees data affecting market value. However, in order to continue to regulate certain solutions in this law, it is said to say that, I don't know, we say that the property that someone owns is half as valuable as a pensioner. She's not half as valuable. She's as valuable as she is. What will be the application of the tax, how it will be here, we can say that this house will decide when the marriage is on the table, but that's another thing. And then you will say, according to individual social groups, according to individual interest groups and so on. But what brings mass valuation is to first determine how much someone has under his finger, how much he weighs, how much his property is. And if the situation is that someone will have 2,3 million euros of property under them, but he will have a minimum pension or some income when we find that he has a minimum, probably not only subject to this law, he will probably also be subject to some other law that you've been dealing with, perhaps identifying the origin of the property. So the proportionality of this with some of the incomes that someone has here is a very close correlation between how much someone has created in life and how much of that property they have. If we go to look at mass valuation, look at the area of Gorička, how valuable a property is there, which someone built with denial, it is certainly comparable in the center of Ljubljana to this ratio can also be 1 : 5, 1 : 10. And so it is. Someone who probably lived in Goriček had been involved in agricultural activities and had acquired that difficult property, extremely difficult, would have such a property with such gabarits on a plot, comparablely large in the center of Ljubljana. So, here's the correlation, making some logic behind it are. A requirement for calculations, simulations. The test calculations will be, and we'll give them to you. At this point you already have them publicly available online, according to the existing Law on Mass Valuation of Certain Values. The handicaps that have been identified are already there. Especially the ones that come from the wrong data. This law is also laid down in such a way that, through the first round, they have identified themselves, we can call it, the propensity of the debtors. Even on the basis of the fact that the data on the usable surface had changed, there was a significant impact on the value of the property, although it should not have been. And then we figured that out or the team found that this has an excessive impact on models according to the actual situation, so we had to take some other data, some other weight. Let's say a net floor area that tells you more, but it makes it impossible for someone who's more informed at that point just to change some of the data to significantly affect the property value. In this case, too often unjustifiable. As far as this information is concerned, we will provide them, and also present them, at the latest, if you give us support today, to the Committee on Finance. Next, it was said mainly by MEP Veber that there would be a higher average burden on those who have fewer and below average for those who have much. That's not true. As we say, mass valuation will determine the market value of a given asset. So the relationship is clear on how it works. As far as poverty is concerned. Nevertheless, other measures that we have here, such as if we are going to watch, will be discussed at the Finance Committee next week on improving the overall relief so that there will be no more sleekness. These are the ones that need the most. In the budgets for the next two years, you may also have noticed, as far as pensions are concerned, steps have been taken forward, yesterday you discussed the abolition of certain measures in the field of students and so on. That's a lot of areas. As it is said, mass valuation does not bring about the consequences that have been exposed here, unless you already have in mind some special way of taxation, but it is not on the table, and I also doubt that this house or government would ever accept it, especially in such a biased way. Once we have gone to value, we point to something to be dependent on. Even when we talk about those who, say, currently benefit from public funds, so far have had no opportunity to complain, to influence that value. They now have the possibility of applying specific circumstances. Someone who has real estate, which could be in the centre of Ljubljana, say in Šiška, has very poor property, has not been able to object until now. In here, even with what the sub-legal act foresees, it will be stated, clearly in the law, that is microlocation, quality. And the quality is precisely that if the building is in poor condition, it can not be based on some appreciation that has to be paid to a judge or to another evaluator, but on the basis that it proves its right in accordance with the general administrative procedure. Perhaps this is also a photo with a mobile phone that proves that the facade is in an extremely poor condition, that the windows are practically what they are, were repaired 30 years ago and so on. This leads to a new reduction in value. So after what we suggest. After what he is now, he can't do that. Maybe that's the reason, too, for tax purposes, the interest was great. There the matter came to the Constitutional Court relatively quickly and fell. Socially weak people, in principle, find it difficult to reach the Constitutional Court. As a result, the Ministry of Finance, together with other stakeholders, also recognised that certain solutions must be provided in the law, allowing everyone to have an easy economic impact on the price. And this is what we will somehow bring in with the proposal. When we talk about these social transfers, this proposal will allow it to be possible that, given that a limit is already provided for in the law, in existing legislation, when someone is entitled to transfer and when not, it may become justified after these solutions. As far as it's concerned, there's no greater response from the congregations. I would point out, however, that when the information came out that somehow the coalition was still considering whether to move on with this proposal, the congregations had come forward, associations. The associations are also present in the project world and project group and give us a sense of their views, their thinking. They have problems in the area of real estate, say NUSZ and so on, they have problems in the field of records and so on. They also see in these solutions that we are addressing some of the important problems they are facing. On this basis, they will be able to have their finances more sustainable. As we look at the area during the recession, the NUSZ went up, I don't know, 10, 15%. And then it was said that we would now determine them and that they would lose their autonomy. That's the question of how the law will determine. However, in principle, the basic guidelines were also in this direction and their income was excluded, and also certain calibration options were determined according to their preferences as to how much they would burden. But I'm saying this debate comes later on the table. As far as reaching out to local government and so on. I think that a good signal came yesterday from the State Council, it is said by the competent Commission, I think that support for this proposal has come as it is, will certainly also be included in future discussions and will, as usual, report to the competent financial committee on what they think about this proposal. Various indications in this sense that no State publishes the data. I'd like to point out that that's not true. Now I don't know if we're going to the list, we can go, but let's say Sweden, then we have some Denmark, Latvia, that published it. Afraid that someone would come and say, but now I'm going to put 120 billion euros on the table and I'm going to buy you and you're going to be my servants - I think that these claims are still a little bit pretentious. If not for another reason, because if someone has 120 billion to buy property, if they estimate transaction costs per percent, if they have 1.2 billion, if they have 120 billion, they probably also have 1.2 billion to value all properties in the country, they'll probably find someone in that country who would do these calculations to them, they could also be inadvertent. So I think it's always a matter of buyer and seller. If someone has an interest after the purchase, they'll get the property value, they'll offer it, and then it's on the one who sells it, whether he sells it or not. We have certain situations mainly in the border area, but ZMVN, a true mass evaluation does not affect this. If someone has an interest, they have money, and on the other hand, there's a willing salesman, that's what's gonna happen. Either we publish it or we don't. But I think it's a much more positive publication of this data. Why? Because buying or selling real estate may happen to you once, to someone, not once, to someone, twice, three times in your life. And that's when it's very important that whoever's selling, or whoever's buying, they're not going to be cheated. And in this way, because these data have become public knowledge, you can be someone who sells his real estate, looks at it and is informed in a few weeks about how comparable properties are, which are not finally looked at online and creates a picture, okay, but that is, as far as the current comparable market value is, that is as far as he is willing to go and ensure that at that point he will not be at the expense of someone who may be an intermediary or a fat person, we can call it, we can say, has a lot of experience, let him pretend that he will give him his real estate not black, not white, if it is clear to him that he can also on the basis of the data that he is getting on the Internet as much as he is doing. It was mentioned there somewhere that there was a change in the area of property taxation. No, in fact, this law offers the possibility of significant changes in some transparent, effective direction. As it is said, this debate will take place later. None of this is prejudiced by the ZMVN, except to look at how much real estate is marketable, it is said that if I pull the analogy forward, how much someone has under their thumb, then this assembly will assess how appropriate, solidarity, proportionate, reasonable it would be to contribute to the joint or local cash registers.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u123	We've got two more interviewers reported. First, Mr Roberto Battelli and second, Mr Franz Jurša. Mr. Battelli, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u124	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. My debate will also be preventive, because it is clear that there is actually a discussion here about a possible coming property tax. Government representatives also say that this will be a good basis for this future operation. My belief is that — and I'm talking about property tax — market value cannot be the basis for this tax. It cannot be the basis for this tax for reasons that many colleagues have already said. Last but not least, he was also a colleague of Weber, who remembered more freshly why it couldn't be. Pensioners, young I would add something else that these pensioners and those young people whom Janko spoke about also live in Koper, Isola, Pirano, the centre of Ljubljana and Kranjska Gora. [[…]] So it's a possibility of a complaint. You know, this is a very courteous story because the market value of one property is very fluid because it can change in a very short time. In a year you can go somewhere where there's nothing now and it's a nice view, I don't know, it grows a gas station with a truck stop. Any property that looks at this will lose its value. And I gave one case that came to my head by accident. But these downs or even ups of real estate are very common and will happen. This means that a standing army of assessors will determine the value of the same property. And the owner will pay once more taxes and once less because he will complain about the changed circumstances of his property. Let's say someone decides they have funds, they've been saving, so they're completely energy-saving their real estate, they're making a photovoltaic, which is also a subsidized way of acquiring energy. And all of a sudden, this property can get a lot of value from a small value. So in the six months when he does this, it will be necessary to revalue this property. This will be chaos in the country and complaints and reassessments. We're not gonna deal with anything but this. Therefore, I repeat, the market value of real estate cannot be the parameter by which the tax is calculated. You need to find something fairer and more effective. This NUSZ is also not bound to the market value of real estate in most municipalities. Other duties are bound to the market value. If I sell and pay the tax on the money I get, I already pay the tax to the state. If I save and get so much interest on this savings, I pay the tax on that interest. The money you'd need to rebuild the house, for example. So I propose, of course, I'm not an expert, I'm trying to use common sense, but I suggest that this law somehow indicates that the market value of real estate cannot be the basis for tax. The second is luxury. The question is, what happens to houses, apartments where we live? Many countries don't tax apartments where people live. But they're taxing high second, third, fourth apartment, cottages and stuff. So some superstandard and some luxury. This makes sense, and even there it is better not to exaggerate, except when it comes to eccentric cases. I would advise that with these matters and also with this law we rush very slowly.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u125	Mr. Franz Jurša, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u126	Thank you. Nice greetings to all colleagues and others at the Grand Hall of the National Assembly. In any event, it is also right to welcome the Secretary of State and the team from which he came to the National Assembly to answer our questions about this law on the mass valuation of property. From the very beginning, I must say that in this part I expose myself in an appropriate way to the insurance of the most vulnerable groups. My colleague Weber was talking about who are the most vulnerable groups. I will not repeat after them, but I will say that among these most vulnerable groups there are largely single-member households, usually at the age of these ladies. This is the first and basic task of us sitting in this hall as representatives of the people. For me, this debate today, because it is a first debate, it is in principle, and I do not really want to talk. However, I will also say some of those experiences that have been negative in the past, because I went through the National Assembly when we already had a real estate valuation law and we had a real estate tax law. How and how this story ended, more or less we all know, and I would not repeat it this time either. I would say, however, that when the proposal came that this law should be considered, first of all logically in the Government, then inter-degree coordination and then came to the National Assembly, personally and also our party warned that perhaps it is not the right time to put this law into consideration, because we are in fact just before the state elections. Six months practically, maybe a little more, separate us from actually going to new elections. Whether or not this law is linked to the real estate tax law. They want to or they don't want to. I am also aware that it will actually take about two years before he can go into the process of a new real estate tax law. This means that if this government did not prepare this law and adopted it by the State Assembly, then there is no possibility, there is no way that in the first part of the mandate the new government could adopt this law. Look, I'm not a supporter of taxes, and I never will, but I still think it's right for us to unify this matter in the country. We do not have these matters resolved in a uniform manner in the area of all 200 and so many local communities. There are two local communities, I think even now that don't even have this NUSZ. The remuneration for usable building land is actually a relatively large income from the local community and is very important. It is even so important that it is also very important in which period of the year the municipal council and mayors receive it, the mayors, that this influx may be crucial for the implementation of certain projects at local level. If I continue with this story, I must say that I will not ask the representatives of the Ministry of Finance to give me certain answers to my questions. I want to, and even when you were in our parliamentary group, I have pointed out that we want to see the direction of the new real estate tax law. Even though I am aware that you will not propose a new law in such a composition. Then there will be another government and this law will be proposed. I'm not going to say now that there's going to be another coalition, and there's going to be another coalition, and there's going to be this one, and there's going to be some new coalition, but you're not going to be burdened with it. However, you may have some guidelines that would benefit us in our decision to adopt this law. I would also like these guidelines to inform our parliamentary group that, at the final stage, it will be easier to decide whether we will support this issue at second reading and then finally in Parliament in this Chamber. What's more, it's a very important matter. I must say that in no case do I wish to support myself, nor do I intend to support the bill – I am not talking about this law now, because it will not be clear here, but rather a new real estate tax law, which would be higher than the average compensation for the use of building land. In any case, I will not support this if I participate in this Chamber in these debates and also co-decision with 1.1% of my vote in Parliament. Therefore, I suggest that you listen carefully to our discussions, to come up with actually additional proposals based on the basics that we have discussed here today and also to the general public, so that we will then, through the second and third hearing, significantly easier to bring these matters down through the procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u127	We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Tilen Bozič, gets the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u128	Thank you very much for the closing statement. I will use it in the first place to respond to these last two debates, because I think it's the right thing to do. Mr Battelli pointed out a few words in the sense that market value cannot be the basis for tax. I'd like to point out one thing here. There are several possibilities for both theoretical and practical approaches. In recent times, the trend has been to essentially go to value, this being recognised as the best approach of this time, as recognized by the International Monetary Fund's audit. This is also recognized by the countries that are on the way to establishing a mass evaluation system and are also coming to consult with us in these preparations, how we have done it, what we have done and what we intend to do. So it's a decision in which direction. We have made up our mind about what is modern and appropriate for this time. The fact is that perhaps 20 years earlier we would certainly not have talked about this because there were no such technological capabilities. There was no such link between databases either. Nor was it possible to arrange and obtain data in this way. But the fact is, up to now, we've been acting like a machete. Even if I look at how much data on roads, railways and so on is recorded in our buildings, there is certainly quite a bit of room for manoeuvre on the country's side to improve, as far as the availability of these data and their quality are concerned. And I also think that this solution, which we are now bringing and is on the table, is an update of something that was introduced decades ago, gives additional momentum, additional impetus and incentive to do so in fact in some foreseeable time. The fact is, Mr Jurša also pointed out that for at least two years it is until we can talk seriously about the property tax. And the fact is, if we hadn't arranged this technical work now, I'm sure the next term wouldn't have discussed the real estate tax or we wouldn't have been able to give the person who would have had the opportunity to talk about it, because I should have settled the basic issues first. So if there is no reform, then it remains essentially the existing law. So it is not about whether or not we are going to a new, modern one to solve those problems that the Constitutional Court has warned us to solve those problems that the profession and many stakeholders are warning about, or whether we remain with this existing system, we are going into a new evaluation with the existing system, with all the anomalies and usability or impossibility it brings with it. Then it was also said about the guidelines. The guidelines, as far as property taxation is concerned, have already been confirmed by the Government by a decision which is public and certainly, here is my word that we will also come to you to present this, explain. The same applies to the remaining members of the Group. If you have an interest, if we only find time, and so far we still have it, perhaps in various occupations just because it was not always possible, but we will find it if such a desire on your part is expressed that you need additional information. As it is said, by mass evaluation with this proposal, we are bringing about a recast of the approach and an improvement of the possibilities for data. As far as the protection of individual groups is concerned, at the moment, even if I go to look at the NUSZ, these groups are not protected, they are not addressed, they have no positive discrimination or approach. It's pretty arbitrary. In principle, it should be defined, we can say by the infrastructure available to someone who is on such betting land, but also by the jurisprudence that this is not always the case. There are also hundreds of relationships, one in a hundred, so here is the question which system is even the basis for us to go into something more reasonable and somewhat more transparent, more efficient, and even if we are already talking more honestly, it will also reflect the political reality then, when you decide which group or structure to face with some additional solutions in the real estate tax law that would eventually be on the table. As a matter of fact. With regard to the approach, we have an open approach, which we will follow, both outside this house, to the various public, including the media, experts as well as to you, is said to be Members of Members' groups. The information we have, if you ask us to do so or invite us to do so, will, if possible, provide us with additional explanations as soon as possible, and we will certainly take the time to do so because we think it is important. Even so far, these visits, which have been made by the groups of Members, show that this makes it possible to discuss in this Chamber, when there is actually controversy, challenges, some arguments that lead to some proposal actually being improved through this process. This is how we regulate data and records with this proposal. This will lead to more reliable values, which are a prerequisite for obtaining, as has been said, mortgage loans in a simple, cheaper way, a fairer dosage can be achieved, the right rights from public funds can be achieved, not least by a fair system or a fair and transparent system of taxation, so that, more often than you say, the tax is collected where it is necessary, because the existing regime allows for many people not to be collected for certain arbitrary reasons because of incomplete records. So that this thorough renovation brings, as has already been mentioned, the possibility of objecting to the application of specific circumstances also brings a significantly higher degree of content certainty, it is said that there are no longer so many content in the sub-laws, very many things are transferred to the law, of course taking into account certain flexibility, which ensures that they would not be able to follow the dynamics that such a solution also foresees. As I say, I would like to thank everyone for the debate so far, the comments. For a lot of what you've pointed out today, next time I'll be better prepared, we'll have a wider team. As it is said today, if you consider that the law is suitable for further consideration, there is a possibility of a greater number of interlocutors within the Finance Committee, both a ministerial level, if I say so, as well as other levels, called the professional public and so on. In a way, I am already looking forward to this debate because it will certainly be lively and interesting, and in particular, citizens and citizens will probably find it easier to explain why it makes sense or why the government estimates that this proposal is appropriate and that it will better address existing situations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u129	Thank you, Secretary of State. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I'm guessing yes. Anyone else? I see there's only one hand. Mr. Bell Lah, please, you have five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Chairman. We've heard different debates here. I myself had a thought, or in our parliamentary group, about the law as presented. That is why I also said that we will not oppose this law at first reading, but I agree with what I think, I have also discussed earlier that market value is also questionable in my opinion as a basis for taxation. In case I say so. In neighbouring Austria, they do not have cadastral income, but they have something similar, but they determine the tax base for taxation by taking into account the 18-year profit on agricultural land. This is some kind of tax base. It's not a market value, I don't know any other value. If you run the land, if you have something from the ground, like if you sell something, you pay a profit tax. Unlike buying and selling, and there, if you own land, you have the costs of land, taxes and everything else in farming, and the tax base is that profit, what you have plus profits on this land. One such principle should also be found in us. I have therefore discussed earlier how it is unfair to take into account the price of some real estate on the basis of comparable sales contracts, which then practically at one selling price or some such prices affect the taxation of all other properties in that area. I think it's fair here that it's a market price. For example, building a house in Portorož or somewhere in Halozah is the same cost. Only the market price of a house in Portorož is three or four times higher than that in Haloza, and it would not be fair to pay such a higher tax on property if I was very clear. Otherwise, as I warned you earlier, a little bit of a joke in these debates, if we listen a little. One of the electorates said to me: “Somewhere driven you seem to me Members.” I said, "How do you drive?" And that was before these elections, because now it looks even worse. "Yes, driven in a way in which Members should not be transported in any way." I asked him how he meant it. He said, "Time has run you over."
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u131	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate. Unfortunately, it is no longer possible to apply for the debate, otherwise we had two more wishes after Mr Lach applied. On the proposal to conclude that the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide in half an hour in the framework of the votes. I hereby end this item of the agenda and also the 34th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 7.40 p.m. Thank you very much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u132	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. Before we proceed to the voting process, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: 24, 25, 19, 23, 7, 6 and 5 of the agenda. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of the 24th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the 22nd Annual Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016 with a proposal for a recommendation. We are moving on to a decision on the Proposal for a Recommendation to the 25th Annual Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 65 votes in favour and none in favour. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the recommendation has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 25th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Special Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia on Human Rights Violations of Persons with Mental Impairment in Their Involuntary Housing and Treatment in the Protected Departments of Social Protection Institutions with a proposal for a recommendation. We are moving on to a decision on the Proposal for a Recommendation to the Special Report of the Republic of Slovenia on Human Rights Violations of Persons with Mental Impairment in Their Involuntary Circumstances and Treatment in Protected Departments of Social Security Institutions. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 67 votes in favour and none in favour. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the recommendation has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 19th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Bill on the Mass Valuation of Real Estate. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on mass property valuation is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present and 49 votes in favour and 16 votes in favour. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 16.]] I note that the Council has adopted a decision and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 23rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for the adoption of the authentic interpretation of the second paragraph of Article 26 of the Act on Pharmaceutical Activities. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision of the parent working body, which reads as follows: The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 26(2) of the Act on Pharmacy is not adopted. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 44 votes against 20. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 20.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the National Assembly and that the procedure for the adoption of the authentic interpretation has therefore been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 7th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law on the regulation of premises in the framework of the regular procedure. At the meeting of the National Assembly on 18 October 2017, the representative of the Government pointed out, after the third reading had been concluded, that the draft law on second reading was not harmonised and that the Government had therefore prepared a harmonisation amendment to 57, 58, 187, 261, 263, 264, 265, 266, 267, 268, 269, 286, 291, 293, 294, 295 and 297, which was published on the e-club. Does the government want to present the harmonisation amendment? Please, the Minister for the Environment has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u133	Dear President of the National Assembly, Dr. Milan Brglez, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In the harmonisation amendment to the proposal for a law on the regulation of premises in Articles 57 and 187, it is proposed to apply a more precise description of the type of spatial acts to which the provisions relate, in view of the uniform meaning and consistency of the provisions of the law. Because of the amendments adopted, there is a lack of description in the text of both articles on the basis of which there may be doubts as to whether they are strategic or implementing spatial acts or whether they are State or municipal spatial acts. The harmonisation amendment clearly provides for municipal implementing space acts to achieve internal consistency of the legislative text. Article 58 of the Law on State Lawyers, which names the State Attorney's Office as State's Attorney, refers to the State's defence as a possible applicant. The amendment means aligning the ZUreP proposal with another law already in force, since the Law on State Attorneys of 20. 5. already in force and will be used 20. 11. The amendment to Article 261 constitutes a compliance with the amended provisions of Article 44 of this Law, which were adopted at second reading with the amendment. The municipal urbanist, in accordance with the amended provisions of Article 44 of this Law, must not conduct a local inspection procedure in the municipality if this could result in a conflict of interest. Offences must also be appropriately defined for these tasks. The amendments in Articles 263 to 269 and Articles 286, 293, 294, 295 and 297 are all the result of the adoption of the amendment to Article 299, which was also adopted at second reading and which has delayed the application of the law, were originally intended to expire. The consequences of the new harmonisation amendment are linked to the entry into force of the law, which is still date 1. 6. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In order to ensure internal harmonisation of the provisions of the law instead of the term "space public interest regulation", Article 291 uses the term "space state importance regulation" because it is a type of spatial regulation defined by the ZUREP proposal in Article 50.Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u134	Would you like a word from the Member of Parliament and Members? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment. A debate? It was before. Yeah. I'm just checking. The debate is still open. Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u135	Dear President! In the New Slovenia Group, we will not support this law, because the package of three of these laws should solve at least four things if we go through a systemic change. The first is legalisation, which saves part of the second construction law, then acquisition of property in the public interest for categorised municipal roads, which are 23 000 privately owned. This troika of laws does not provide an option; it does not resolve that the municipalities could resolve this in due course, which should have been resolved long after the Constitutional Court’s decision and by law in 2012. Then the price of municipally equipped building plots. It was envisaged that the municipal infrastructure would be renamed “economic infrastructure”, where I understood that public municipal infrastructure as well as that land which is municipally equipped and which serves the development of the economy was considered to be an economic infrastructure. However, it was proposed on the Committee by the Desus Group to be renamed “economic public infrastructure”, which leads back to public utility infrastructure. And there is nothing more public than communal infrastructure: road, plumbing, sewerage, sidewalks, public lighting. This is a municipal infrastructure or a new economic public infrastructure. Once again, we continue to have speculators evicting and instilling municipally equipped building land. In neighbouring countries, this is different, in all, and prices of municipally managed building land are two thirds lower and competitive. But we are not competitive because the legislation supports speculative purchases. If you don't believe it, check the ownership of building land around major cities, who owns it, for what purpose it was bought, why it waits and drives away foreign and domestic investors. Because the price is too high. Next thing. It is necessary to shorten the procedure for the adoption of municipal spatial acts. In neighbouring countries, for example, I said, Finland, Sweden, Germany, in one year, a complex procedure, with all operators of space regulation, takes place in one year. With us – this right short is so far – 4 to 8 years; this left longer is new – four new stages are added and three stages are extended by 30 days. Nothing else has changed. Have we reached our goal? The representative of the Ministry said that Magna was adopted under the rules, as it were, in half a year. Why is there four to eight years left? Who's to blame? And now it's getting longer. Is that the purpose of this law? Did we get something out of it? We didn't solve anything. They can save the Ministry itself. If Magna has gone through in six months, let all the other municipal OPs go through in six months. Let them prove it! We will see in six months if any spatial act that has long been in progress is resolved by this new procedure that we are adopting today. We didn't solve anything. We saved the only legalization that's in another marriage. That is why we cannot support this law, which brings me more confusion than it has ever been.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-24-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u136	The debate on the harmonisation amendment is open. That's what I'm warning you. Does anyone else want to discuss the harmonisation amendment? No, no, no. Then I conclude this debate and move on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 49 votes in favour and 15 votes in favour. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 15.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. Now we are moving on to a full decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 47 votes in favour and 17 votes in favour. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 17.]] I understand the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Construction Law in the framework of the regular procedure. Since the proposal for a law is substantively linked to the proposal for a law on the regulation of premises, at the meeting of the assembly on 18 October 2017, on the basis of the second paragraph of Article 86 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I decided that the assembly on the proposal for a building law would decide after the end of the 7th item of the agenda. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted at the second-reading meeting of the home working body or the National Assembly would make the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 52 votes against 13. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 13.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for an Act on Architecture and Engineering in the framework of the regular procedure. Since the proposal for a law is substantively linked to the proposal for a law on the regulation of premises and to the proposal for a building law, at the meeting of the assembly on 18 October 2017, on the basis of the second paragraph of Article 86 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I decided that the assembly on the Proposal for an Act on Architecture and Engineering would decide after the end of the 7th and 6th agenda items. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted at the second-reading meeting of the home working body or the National Assembly would make the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 52 votes against 12. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 12.]] I note that the law has been passed. This concludes this item on the agenda. I also conclude the 34th meeting of the National Assembly.
