ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 35th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mrs Marija Bacič by 2 p.m., Mrs Janja Sluga, mag. Tanja Zink, Mrs. Erika Girl, mag. Bojana Muršič from 13.30 on, Mrs Vojka Šergan from 13:00 on, Dr Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, Mr Tomaž Gantar, Mr Branko Zorman, Mr Danilo Anton Ranc, Mr Marjan Dolinšek from 16:00 on, Mr Saša Tabaković, mag. Matthew Tonin, Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec and Mr. Franc Ly. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government to the 1st item of the agenda, Mag. Duško Godino, Director of the Energy Agency, at the 38th item of the agenda, Minister of Justice mag. Goran Klemenčič on the 41st item of the agenda, representative of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia and representative of the Council of the Court of Justice on the 43rd item of the agenda and representatives of the Government on all items of the agenda. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the agenda of the 35th meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Monday, 6 November 2017, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of an item from the agenda or proposals for an extension of the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as referred to. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 70 votes in favour and no one opposed. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 35th meeting of the assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. At the time of the day, this is for questions from the Members of Parliament and the Members of Parliament. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 33 questions from the Member States in writing within the time limit. The order of business shall be laid down in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. On this point, Mrs Andreja Katič, Minister for Defence, Mr Karl Erjavec, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Anja Kopač Dark, Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities from 3 p.m. on, mag. Ms Vesna Györkös Žnidar, Minister for the Interior, Mag. Goran Klemenčič, Minister of Justice, and Mr Zdravko Počvalšek, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, since 2.30 p.m. An e-club provides an overview of the questions sent by the Member States, which were not answered within the time limit. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first four questions will be answered by the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Miro Cerar. Dr. Franz Trček, you have the floor to question the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u2	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Respectable assembly, respected Prime Minister of the Government, respected young visitors. We are ahead of the last eighth of this term, and no matter where we came from in this assembly, even if we are not from analytical disciplines after the good three years, we know the state of this society and the state. I'll give you some information for refreshment. The average net salary is around a good thousand, two thirds of the employees do not have an average net salary. In my personal opinion, a pension for someone to live roughly normal lives should be €800. Nearly three quarters of pensions and pensioners do not have a pension of 800 euros or more, with pensioners on average having an average of one quarter of the lower pension. The average Slovenian household accepts about EUR 1000 800 a month there. Among all unemployed there are more than one half of the long-term unemployed. We had a Jazbinski marriage there in the early 1990s, and we did not have a serious housing policy throughout the history of this country. I am sure that many parents of these children sitting on the balcony are having trouble solving the housing problem. We have also dismantled public passenger transport. Why am I saying this? Some of the generations that we belong to, Mr Cerar, can have trouble solving this if they don't buy Swiss credits. Some of the younger generations, the generation of Luke, the generation of Micah, who can only dream about it. If you're solving this problem, you've literally been tied up for 20 years with high credits, taxes, I'll just say to the concrete mafia because they almost want to sell you – what? The balcony is super standard. These are some sort of facts. This government has not actually faced it seriously. She did not even face jobs that are very hot in Maribor, but I was the only member of the opposition from there, yesterday I received information from Boris Krabonje that only this year, through the rebels, helped with hundreds of thousands of people who needed help in Maribor to prevent at least a few jobs. We'd need at least five times as much money to somehow just make sure, if I were to put it that way, about Maribor. Since this government is running out of time, I ask you: What will you do in the area of housing policy extensions to make it easier for the future government to start work? Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u3	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u4	Thank you for the question, honourable Member Dr. Duck. First of all, let me say that this government is concerned about housing policy and is aware that this is something that is long-term, because this policy is very complex, covers leases, covers housing, for example, a real estate market that has been re-energised, alive and so on in the last period. Because you started your question with such dramatic tone about wages, unemployment, pensions and so on, let me put it this way. Of course, we agree that in all these areas things need to continue to be improved, but it is also right to say that the situation in all these areas has improved significantly at the time of this government. When I took over this government, there were 130 000 unemployed in Slovenia, now there are about 85,000. In fact, it says that a lot of people have been given a job at that time, so that in some way they can only provide themselves with a way of life. It is clear, however, that we will have to continue with these activities. Even pensions, as you say. We have coordinated them several times in this mandate, as all governments have in the last three mandates together when they are not at all. So we promoted them. We have raised the lowest pension, as you know, to EUR 500 for all those with an additional working age to help those in the worst trouble. As an example, I agree, more will have to be done here. But here is a pilot project of support and assistance to families who have been forcibly displaced. This is part of the aid package for the weakest, to which our government does not forget, works for them. The project involves the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, the Ministry of Environment and Space and the Housing Fund, which have already enabled the recruitment of apartments in Celje, Ljubljana, Dolenjska and Primorska for these vulnerable groups that were assigned. Of course, you are right, here we must continue and continue with this project and we will continue. In general, on a proposal from the Government, the National Assembly adopted a Resolution on the National Housing Programme from 2015 to 2025. It was received by Members and Members of this Chamber in November 2015. This is one of the key documents for solving the housing problem in the future. The government has proposed and the National Assembly has adopted a strategy, a vision for the future. On this basis, I can say that the resolution also contains an action plan for action with various measures. On this basis, the Ministry of Environment and Space shall submit regular reports. Let me just say that, because time does not allow, for example, we have already started two pilot projects in the field of the Youth Scheme. The first project is to provide affordable housing for young people who first solve the housing issue and the second pilot project under way is to provide housing for young people. So, things are moving. It's a senior scheme. That's what we're thinking. A pilot project of the intergenerational community for the elderly will soon be carried out. Since October this year, a web site has been established. The Housing Fund published a Programme for co-financing the provision of housing units for the elderly in 2017-2020. Then, for example, in the area of housing cooperatives, where we are also working towards some development, because this is a very promising area under some assumption of a change in mentality. This is where a project group is set up to carry out a pilot project to set up a housing cooperative. In the area of housing legislation, amendments to that law were adopted in May, namely housing law, to equalise the beneficiaries of subsidies in non-profit and market housing, which was the implementation of a constitutional decision. In addition, we have made it possible to increase the level of indebtedness of public housing funds, which will encourage and enable the construction of public rental apartments. The Ministry of Environment and Space has also published a draft baseline for a broader revision of housing legislation. These are the extensions for continuing this complex and difficult story. In preparation, the Housing Fund will also invite private and public sector housing owners to participate in the way housing is provided for public purposes. The Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia also carries out certain projects. Thus the construction of apartments for sale in the neighborhood Green grove on Brdo, the start of investment in neighbourhood apartments for the broadcast of Brdo 2. Let me mention the funding programme for the guarantee [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u5	Dr. Franc Trček, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, chairman. I don't have much time, either. I will begin with the Green Gare, which Mr President of the Government has mentioned. 82 real estates with unscrupulously high prices. The cheapest wardrobe is 140 000 euros and the most expensive house is 820 thousand euros. You probably can't afford this house, Mr. Prime Minister, and I can't even afford a wardrobe. Let's stop fooling around. Budget item, Housing activity belonging to the Ministry of Environment and Space. I'll round the thousands. 2014 – 964, 2015 – million 300, 2016 – million 700, 2017 – evaluation of implementation 865, adopted budget 2018 – 835, proposal for a rebalancing minus 45 000, proposal for 2019 – 686. Now I hope that the Left will have this resort and you are giving us a very nice passport, Mr President. You mentioned something. You know, pilot studies are carried out in the first third of the mandate. You've actually got three months left, because then you're just gonna fight for three more months. Given the better situation of key economic aggregates, we should do the following: solve the problem of jobs, start solving the problem of young people's apartments, finally regulate the rental market, finally go beyond just the pilot to residential cooperatives, including some residential cooperative in rural areas, build non-profit apartments that will be accessible, not a non-profit apartment, because some friend will continue to grow through the annexes, I hope, what I call the concrete mafia. None of this has been done, but we will give over a billion — for what? It's Nate's motorized battalion. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u7	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u8	Of course, you're being a little malicious, because you're putting things out of context. If we are talking about these apartments for actually high amounts, it is not that social measure. I introduced housing policy as a whole. In particular, I mentioned that we have areas for young people, for older people, for young families, for those who have been assigned. Of course, apartments also cover other categories of the population, so you cannot take this from the context. Pilot studies may indeed be carried out at the beginning of the mandate if this is an extension from previous years. When I took over this government, leading this government, the situation was catastrophic. Dear Member, at that time we had to save the country from the troika, which some have already called for in Slovenia, at first we had to establish public finances to consolidate them so that we would have a surplus for the first time in years. And I am afraid that if you discuss so easily what it is possible for people to promise immediately, such a policy could once again destroy such consolidation in one year. I mean, all you have to do is promise, that's what you have to do, that's what you have to do. I agree. These are great wishes. We have a vision, too. But all this, honourable Member, must be done as possible. I am aware of and share with you this desire to help, above all, young families who are engaged, all those who are in social distress, as well as others, to come to some decent housing and lifestyle. However, we must do this in a sustainable, sustainable way so that we do not now divide what we have in two years, and then the crisis will come and again the problem will be when everyone is significantly worse than five, six, seven years. Because of this crisis, it is so difficult to build things forward now. And we build them. And I'd be happy if your client, anyone who's here and everyone else, if we work together, because that's the only way we're really gonna be able to do something good for our people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u9	Dr. Franz Trček, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u10	Dear Mr. President of the Government! You and I both knew what we were getting into. This society is obsessed, and I'm going to say what I'm going to say with Catholic guilt beatings. We're here to solve things. If we go to see the Magnography of the National Assembly, I am the man on behalf of the Left who speaks most often and most responsibly about money. Instead of a billion in some weapons in 10 years' time, instead of 20 million in some new building in Brdo pri Kranj due to some Presidency, let us deal with this, Mr President of the Government. I didn't tear anything out of context. Let's go back to the problem of operations. We have 11 housing units all over Slovenia, of which there is only one in Celje, on my, our, Mariboric, if you want, page Trojan. From Mrs Kopacheva's department of department, which has already told me after a third of our mandate that we have aged etatists in Levica, they say and almost boast that not even all these apartments are occupied because they cannot reach the poor, which is difficult because people hide poverty. It's not a sin to be poor. Our job is to put it out, Mr. Cerar. You were involved in writing the constitution. We have the 78th Article of the Constitution, which says nicely, A suitable apartment, quote: “The State creates opportunities for citizens to get a suitable apartment.” And this is definitely a more important priority than what I said before. What I've told you is the policies that a government should start putting in place when it goes better. And believe me, the Left will be much more responsible in dealing with public money. If I have been appalled by the two after a month's notice of the functioning of this National Assembly, it is that no one here is seriously involved in public finances, including cohesion funds. And that's the problem. This is a problem where people expected a new policy to solve it. I can honestly say that SMC feared the responsibility of the new policy. Of course there are pressures, we can call them uncles from behind, we can call them lobbies, Mr Brglez counted five when you were in Parliament for six months, strong. But our job is to go beyond these lobbying and to start dealing with some key policies, which is housing policy and public passenger transport policy, even if we look at it and we have to look macro-economically, because then people could spend it for something else and create new jobs and pennies for all four and half cash. Unfortunately, I'm obviously the only macroeconomic man in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u11	I listened very carefully. There were, unfortunately, no demands for a general debate, so we will not vote on that. [[advertising from the hall]] Then I'll give you a reminder of a violation of the rules of procedure. Mr. Jernej Vrtovec, you have the floor to ask the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u12	Dear Prime Minister of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, one good day! The President of the Government, if anything, then the greatest defeat of your work in three years of your term is exactly the situation in the Slovenian healthcare system. It seems that many times this situation borders the limits of chaoticism. Long waiting lines, problem of financing, loss of Slovenian hospitals operating on losses from year to year, critical situation in UKC Ljubljana in individual departments. Key changes that would mean a better health system, changes that people deserve for what they pay. And if we pay for something, we expect good services. There have been no key changes in your mandate in three years and we have not discussed them in the National Assembly. Both politicians and people are tired of only the promise, empty promises, that the situation will improve. Particularly problematic is what is happening in UKC Ljubljana in children's cardiology. The consequences of unregulated situations and poor relationships in child cardiology are also believed to be the deaths of children. Unfortunately, we are also witnessing the complete breakdown of the system in this department when the last two doctors left child cardiology. Dear President of the Government, we are a very wealthy country and our economy is certainly doing well, but we cannot afford such indicators to have such a situation in the healthcare system. Nobody wants to take responsibility for that. No one else is to blame for the situation in UKC Ljubljana. The Government was the one who, on a proposal from the Minister, appointed its representatives, has most of its representatives in the UKC. So the responsibility is on the government's side. The responsibility for this is also because I do not want to point out what was wrong in the past, but also the responsibility for the key changes that would mean a better health system so that our children can be treated in safe hands. That's why he's on the spot, Mr. President of the Government, after two interpretations against the Minister, that's a key question to you: What are you gonna do? By the end of the term of office, what will the Government do to restore citizens' confidence in UKC Ljubljana and child cardiology? This is no longer just the responsibility of the minister, it is also your personal responsibility, because you have taken the Minister to the defense together with the entire coalition.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u13	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u14	Your Honor, Mr Jernej Vrtovec, thank you for the question. First, let me say that government policy in the field of health is facing a number of problems, problems and also challenges. But it's certainly not a complete defeat here. On the contrary. Every challenge, every problem we address, we face, and we improve. But it is true that any time there is a new problem. For example, now this one at the UKC, which I will address below, is disturbing. There's something I need to say. I am aware of the government's co-responsibility also for the health situation as a whole and in general for the situation in society over and over again. But for the health situation, doctors are also responsible, we are responsible for all those who sometimes do not need as much medical care as we can afford, who take too many medications and throw them away, who walk as patients after unnecessary treatment and burden them. And they're responsible doctors when they don't try hard enough to clear things up in their environment. Now it's the government's responsibility. I'm going to go very specifically. UKC. True, children’s and heart surgery are unacceptable and unacceptable. Apparently, this is where the head of the University Clinical Center got out of hand, out of control. Even so, the leaders feel that there is no problem at all. That's why I'm sending doctors and executives to health care because experts, doctors say there's no problem. Then what should politics say if the UKC expert director says that there is no problem, everything is in good hands, everything works. But precisely because the situation has become so unsustainable, because I can no longer trust such health professionals, I have requested at the last government meeting, and this has happened that we have replaced the three current government representatives in the UKC world. I now expect that this new composition will do what is only necessary to replace the leadership at UKC, which is at least objectively responsible for the situation, as we accompany it through the media or with which we are informed from other sources. It seems completely unacceptable to me, as I said, that such difficult stories of children with congenital heart failure are politicized and exploited for political points. I want this to happen differently, but that's the way it is. That's why I asked for what I did. I expect and also this was my second request to the Government, which the Government unanimously supported as the first at the last meeting of the previous Thursday in order to speed up the establishment, operation and functioning of the centre for the treatment of children and adults with congenital heart failures and other heart and cardiovascular diseases. This centre will be established as a self-sustaining public health institution with the unselfish help of the internationally established surgeon Dr. Gregorič, who is willing to help in the project world unselfishly and will put this matter on its feet, so that we will have this heart surgery both for our youngest, for our children, and in the best possible form, as well as for the others. It's so hard to say that the government doesn't act. Of course, it is one of the following events and one of the events where there are several stakeholders. I absolutely do not want to reduce the responsibility of the ministry, Minister, the government as a whole. We will carry out our tasks in the future with regard to the UKC, where the world and other stakeholders, as well as with regard to health care, must carry out their tasks. As you know, we have already adopted several key laws in this mandate that will improve the health situation. We're doing our best. To this end, we have invested quite a bit of money and some of the results are already showing up, but I am also waiting for more of them to be seen to be the ones we want them to be. I'm not as happy about waiting lines as you are not. I wish the changes were happening faster. But, excuse me, the health situation we have is simply not possible to recover as quickly as we would like, due to a number of negative past practices. That's why we're just going to insist and rehabilitate him. But it's going slower than I want to, but we're going to try to be as fast as possible in the coming months and later as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u15	Mr Jernej Vrtovec, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u16	Dear Prime Minister, in your first part of the response you are guilty of the medical situation, I hope that after an accident, you have also turned on people too often to see a doctor. The medication up, the medication down, I hope it was really a mistake in just and just a performance. The government has all the leverage to run politics in the Slovenian health system. They're completely uplifting. Here I'm going to borrow your coalition partners who said the situation was worse than when we joined the government. Now, within the coalition, you take note. But the task of this ruling coalition should be to run the Slovenian health system. What's going on in childhood cardio isn't a new problem. What happened last week is just an additional set of actions that have taken place over the last six, seven years. As early as 2015, it was stated in one specific strategy, 2015, that the Government will set up a new department and cooperate with the foreign centre. Now I ask you, two years later, after 2015 the government decided to cooperate with the foreign centre and set up a new department. And there's one other thing I'm asking: Did Mr Gregorič, who was supposed to lead this new centre, even agree to the conditions laid down? Dear Prime Minister, you have all the levers, all the power and a very strong solid coalition, as it appears that the situation, especially in UKC Ljubljana, is improving, because that is what people deserve. When it comes to the health of the youngest, we should make every effort to do so. To ask the opposition about this and to refer to it for two years, this is not politics and not politicisation. But know that some in this country, even in the opposition, especially in New Slovenia, we are responsible for the situation that is taking place, which is why we are so liquid.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u17	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Absolutely, if I go back to our youngest first, that's the top priority. This priority is the health of everyone who is sick, injured, needs care. And these are also the priorities of this government, as far as we can do what we are doing in this area. I'm not gonna say we've done everything we've done, but I assure you, we're doing our best. But I will repeat, for the state of health as well as for the state of society, there is a great deal of responsibility. We have to admit this one time. I take responsibility for the government, just as the Minister has to take responsibility for the work of the department. Then there's the ZZZS, then there's the medical associations, the doctors, and the others working in health care. Then there are citizens and citizens. Listen, when we talk about responsibilities, we all have to do more on prevention, on a healthy life. That's what I'm talking about. That we will not be so sick that we will not be so stressed that we will help each other in this society, that we will be healthier in better condition. And that's why I'm talking about responsibilities. But that doesn't mean I want to avoid the government's responsibility. As I said, we have made decisions at the last meeting, which are very clear, very specific. Now I expect them to be implemented. Further steps in the world of this institution, i.e. UKC, as well as in other public institutions. The government does not run public institutions, but they are run by people who are employed there and therefore have their responsibilities. Of course, the government is in control. Once again, if previous governments had the right policies if former governments were to grant concessions in a transparent way – and they are not, this is proved by the Court of Auditors’ report – if previous governments were to prevent unacceptable actions in public tendering and so on, our government could lead on a very regulated story. Our government has faced a very devastating situation. The collars fall out of the closet, as we say, every month. Once you're done on one end, it falls on the other side. We are aware of the problem, we are working, and we will continue to do so. We're not giving up. We won't, because health care needs to be arranged for doctors, for healthcare professionals, for our people. For everything. We're not gonna stop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u19	Peace in the hall to begin with. Mr Jernej Vrtovec, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u20	The honourable President of the National Assembly, as you can see that health care is such a hot topic that we need to talk about this at a meeting of the National Assembly and that the President of the Government comes to this meeting, because with his reply to me personally and I believe that your coalition partners too, he has not convinced. First time. The government appointed most of its members to the UKC Ljubljana Institute. Already in 2015. Prime Minister of the Government, you've already named the people you've actually solved in 2015. Now you've named new people. I understand these people have disappointed you. But one of these is at the Ministry of Employment, which was the president of the council of this institution. That's the first thing. Another time. In a number of other public institutions throughout Slovenia, the government appointed its representatives. I agree that you do not run an individual public institution, but if any public agency disappoints you, the government simply has all the leverage to replace its representatives. He's got most of it, and he can do it. Third time. It's about responsibility and change. The changes, I agree, are necessary, Prime Minister. But I don't agree to the changes that your minister proposes and that many in your own party disagree with, let alone in the coalition. This year was an interpolation and we had every opportunity, just like last year, to change course. I now agree with you that it is not only your government that is to blame for this situation in the health system as it is now. I can handle the ashes, all the governments behind me are also covert. Inefficiency was the one that stimulated this effectiveness. I'll point out one thing. But this government is responsible, no matter what happened in the past, for things to change. Things haven't changed in years. They haven't changed. Your coalition partners, Mr Erjavec and Mr Židan, said: "We are dissatisfied with the work of the Minister. The situation is worse than it was in 2013, 2014 when we took over the government.” Unfortunately, this time I have to agree with your coalition partners, because they see that things really aren't going in the right direction. So it's up to you, given that you've protected the minister twice, it's to pull a key incision. Sometimes shock therapy works so that within six months key legislation can be adopted and one big leap forward. This is what we expect in the opposition, and that is what some in the coalition expect. For this reason, the honourable President of the National Assembly and other colleagues, I invite you to consider voting on the matter in this National Assembly. We can't go so slowly on the path to change anymore. Not just slowly, in a lot of areas, the course is completely wrong and we're heading for the icy mountain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u21	Mr Jernej Vrtovec, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 16 November 2017, in the framework of the votes. Mag. Alenka Bratušek, you have the floor to question the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u22	Nice greetings to the Prime Minister and everyone else in the hall! Mr. Cerar, I ask: Why are you not taking action with regard to the allegations that our banks have been overcapitalised? Why do you allow the question of a billion and a half euros worth more than three years in the air? More than 10 years have passed since there was a huge financial hole in our banks, a number of billions. The vast majority of those involved still did not respond. This creation is followed by years of indecisiveness when the policy has not taken a firm look at the resolution of the bank hole and has therefore left Slovenia longer than the rest of the countries in crisis. In 2012 and 2013, the country was on the verge that there was no longer any question whether we wanted to fix this bank hole or the banking crisis, but we had to. This, of course, also put Slovenia back on track, avoided the measures of the troika and saved the country from bankruptcy. When it was clear that this bank recovery was successful, somewhere in early 2015, speculation began. For three years, there's been speculation about whether there's too much money in our banks. I understand people are asking, I understand people are interested. After all, it is more than a billion euros. But I don't understand you, Mr Cerar, that you don't do anything about it and let it speculate from day to day. Why? Why don't you, as the owner of our banks, check whether these statements hold you, or make it clear that there's not too much money in our banks? Probably because Slovenes and Slovenians, the public, the media are more concerned with this issue and give you peace with someone else. When I handed over the government to you myself, all the money we put in the Slovenian banks was still there. If only the euro was too much in our bank, you and your government should have taken it from the banks. Why are you not taking action with regard to the allegations that our banks have been overcapitalised?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u23	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u24	Thank you very much, distinguished Member Alenka Bratusek for your question. As you yourself said, you led the government at the time of the biggest rehabilitation of the Slovenian banking system. I'm always surprised that you're referring the question of how the banks have been rehabilitated to our government. Last but not least, if you were in the process of rehabilitating the banking system at the time, you say that even well, then you know the procedures and facts of this bank recovery better than I do, and I really don't know why you want to overcome this responsibility to us now. Let me be very clear. The government is not responsible for this. It is not competent to determine whether the level of recapitalisation of banks was adequate or possibly excessive. The government also monitors what is happening, but does not have any evidence to prove this claim. It is true, however, that we have adopted two legislative proposals on this issue, which will help clarify the measures taken at the time to remedy the banking system. First of all, these are additions to the Bank of Slovenia Act, approved by the National Assembly in September this year, which will allow the Court of Auditors to revise the regularity and prudence of the Bank of Slovenia. While the audit should not cover the application and interpretation of the law and control practices carried out by Banka Slovenije under the Banka Slovenije Act and other regulations under the single control mechanism, the law also provides for the exception that the Court of Auditors will be able to assess the correctness and prudence of the control practices carried out by Banka Slovenije until 4 November 2014 and lead to the use of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Since the last recapitalisation of some Slovenian banks meant spending on the budget of Slovenia and was carried out before 4 November 2014, the Court of Auditors will, this is now important, be able to also assess the correctness and usefulness of those measures of the Bank of Slovenia relating to the determination of the necessary amount of recapitalisation of banks. The Court of Auditors will also inform the National Assembly. In addition, we have indirectly helped to identify what you want by means of a law on the judicial protection of holders of qualified liabilities of banks, the so-called subordinates, as they are practically called. This was confirmed recently by the Government and sent this law to the National Assembly for adoption. Here the subject matter of a judicial dispute will be defined as a dispute on the eligibility of damages to which the former holders of deleted qualified liabilities of banks will be entitled if the court finds that the damage caused by the effects of an exceptional measure is higher than it would have been if that measure were not committed. So both laws will both contribute directly and indirectly to the conclusion of the debate and of the multi-annual rumours and the assumptions about the alleged excessive recapitalisation of banks. There's something else I'd like to say. When you mentioned, among other things, the issue of the bank hole is, in fact, now in the sphere of autonomous, independent prosecution, the prosecution's investigation. All the complaints or the vast majority of the complaints have been filed and we now expect, too, I look forward to these cases coming to court and being properly dealt with there. In my efforts for the rule of law, I would like to see those who have committed this bank hole unlawfully and unethically responsible for it in particular legally. That is why I expect the prosecutions, I hope, to be able to proceed as soon as possible with the case before the courts, so that, in the shortest possible period of time, those who are fortunately reduced in general will also do their job. So much for that answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u25	Mag. Alenka Bratušek, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u26	Mr. Cerar, I repeat: Why are you not taking action with regard to the allegations that our banks have been overcapitalised? Why would you let him speculate about this billion and a half? The country still owns 100 percent in one large, largest bank. As owner, you have the right and the duty to find out on behalf of the State. You don't act because it suits you to talk about it and there's something else less important. But I would like to remind you of two events that shouldn't have happened if the recapitalisation was really too high. One is the recapitalisation of the Bank carried out by you and your government in December 2014. I can understand that then the recapitalisation is all right, because I suppose that would otherwise not be carried out in December 2014. Second thing, sale of New Credit Bank Maribor, 21.April 2016. You sold it for 200 million. There were then billions of euros in the bank. These are things, Mr. Cerar, that interest people. And they have a right to know. I'm never alone and I don't run away from responsibility. I don't know if anyone else can say the same. But I expect you to tell us what you are or what we already know you're not, what you're going to do until you're Prime Minister, and if you don't act like everything is what it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u27	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u28	I'll be brief because I've already given the core of the answer. I said the government for these trials and procedures is not competent. Other institutions are responsible for this. We expect, we also impose additional obligations on them under the laws, so that these matters can be properly examined. If something is wrong, then it shall be examined by the competent institution, whether it is the Court of Auditors, whether it is under any criminal investigation, or whether it is under any other supervisory authority. I really don't understand why you're asking these questions unless you have a bad conscience. That's what happened in your government. I'm talking about that enormous recapitalisation of banks when it came to a lot of billions. And now you're asking if you did it right. You're not. As I told you, we have put in place mechanisms whereby these cases will actually come under the Court of Auditors' magnifying glass and also partially indirectly in judicial proceedings. We know what powers the Bank of Slovenia has, we know what the Court of Auditors will have if the law is passed. So I really suggest you don't fool around here like this. The government just doesn't have direct powers here. Of course, where we can, we are taking steps to speed up these identification processes in the direction you stated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u29	Mag. Alenka Bratušek, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u30	At least a billion and a half reasons why we should have this conversation in the National Assembly and you obviously don't want to understand Mr Cerar. No, I'm not running away from any responsibility, but you and your government are on the run. You sold New Credit Bank Maribor. Even if it were too much, you gave the money to the private owner. That's sad. When I left the government alone, there was money in the banks. Today he is no longer in the New Credit Bank Maribor for the country. I told you about the Bank, Mr President, you carried out the procedures in December 2014. From what I run away from alone and what you run away from, ask yourself or people will form an opinion. Sadly, however, three years of dealing with those who have extinguished the fire, those who are guilty of having to put out the fire, and those who can continue to do as they did before. And once again, if there was only one day in our banks, Mr Cerar, when you were sitting in the prime minister's chair, he was in our banks. Where he is today is a question for you. I think it's true, and a billion-and-a-half is -- you know how much money that is? – this number is speculated on, that is more than a state budget yes for pensions, that is more than a state budget yes for education, that is more than a state budget gives for all social transfers. And you, on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia, who owns the bank, say you are not competent. If the government and the Prime Minister aren't in charge of this, then I really don't know what he can do. The responsibility of you and your government is not to explore this issue, it does not say clearly and loudly: hold, hold. If only one euro is too much, you must take it from the bank and put it back in the budget or taxpayers.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u31	Mag. Alenka Bratušek, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 16 November 2017, in the framework of the votes. Mrs Andreja Potočnik, you have the floor to ask the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u32	Mr President, thank you for your word. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government, Honourable Council of Ministers, Colleagues, Colleagues! In Slovenia we have witnessed in the last two months two basic stones for the start of construction of new factories, in October in Magna Steyr in the municipality of Hoče - Slivnica, in November Yaskawine factory in Kočev. In both cases it is foreign investment in Slovenia, which is certainly not only the consequences of the good economic situation in the world, but mainly the good work of this government. They also fulfil one of the main priorities of this government, namely attracting foreign investment in Slovenia with the aim of creating new jobs mainly in regions such as Styria and Kočevje, where we must all agree that they have greater unemployment and that is why new jobs are very much needed there. If I stop at Yaskawa first. At least 200 new jobs, professionally qualified, are expected. The Yaskawe will also open the Centre for Research and Development, which will work with Slovenian companies and institutes. In connection with this investment, the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport has also confirmed the introduction of the new programme of the Engineer in the Kočev education centre, thus providing staff for the new Yaskawa factory while promoting the involvement of the local environment with a new acquisition. This approximation and cooperation of the education system and the economy thus fulfils the additional commitment and priority of this government from the beginning of the mandate. A similar story took place in Styria last month: Magna Steyr, the largest foreign direct investment in the history of Slovenia. It will bring at least a thousand jobs to Slovenia in the coming years. This investment is returning to the region to the resurgence of the automotive industry, which has already been successful here in the past. It gives it new impetus, especially new and higher-rated jobs. Such investments not only bring jobs in the factory itself, but also give opportunities and work to the surrounding companies and thus have a positive impact on the whole region and consequently on the whole of Slovenia. Mr President, I'd like to ask you: What are the government's plans at systemic level to encourage both domestic and foreign investment, which in Slovenia can bring in additional jobs for our citizens in the future, especially those with higher added value? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u33	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u34	Thank you very much, honourable Member Andrej Potočnik, for this question. First, let me say that I consider investment itself, especially good foreign investment with good business models, to be extremely useful, because it is not just something abstract, it is about opening up new jobs. This is very important to people. That this also happens to these multiplier effects. As long as Yaskawa and Magna are building, our entrepreneurs are involved, our suppliers are involved. This is extremely good for our country. In this environment, there is more optimism, work is enough, and everything is a little easier. In this way, living standards are also slowly improving. That's the whole point of this investment. This can be achieved if we talk about foreign investments, only if the government is stable, if it is focused on a vision of development, if it convinces foreign investors, even the biggest – Magna is the biggest greenfield investment in Slovenia, from which we have a single country – and if the government cares about the well-being of people to try to make it better for people in the end, that it is not the factory itself. We have brought several foreign investments to Slovenia in this mandate, mainly through good government work, good economic diplomacy, economic minister, other ministries. For example, this contribution, which you have substantially helped to make when you adopted a new construction law with simplifications, is a new law on space regulation. Here are a number of simplifications of construction permit procedures and a number of other environmental consensus that will allow faster construction, faster investment where it makes sense, where it is safe enough, good enough for our Slovenia. Of course, it seems important to me, in addition to these two laws and the Income Act, which has already been in place since 2016, and also to the one you have at the November session, some improvements in the direction of promoting investment, especially by adopting – at the last stage of the Government’s preparation – the proposal of the Investment Promotion Act, which will reflect the needs of the economy, as we have been preparing it in contact with economic operators and with the help of the economic ministry and other stakeholders.It introduces a new system-wide way of promoting investment in Slovenia, which will lead to greater predictability of the business environment. With new incentives, activities and investment incentives, the investors will finally have an appropriate set of different investment incentives comparable to those of competing countries. The key novelty is that the law brings home and foreign investors equalisation in the allocation of investment incentives, as domestic companies have so far not been able to pursue irreversible financial incentives, and home companies will now be able to do so. So we're also doing something good for our companies. For example, for strategic investments, even project management is envisaged, with a view to speeding up the procedures for coordinating licensing processes such as environmental consent, environmental authorisation and building permit when monitoring a predetermined timetable for each strategic investment. The law then also lays down new activities to promote investment and internationalisation, such as identifying areas for strategic investment in spatial strategic instruments, promoting the implementation of land policy measures to promote investment and so on. In short, there's a lot of things that the marriage will bring, and I can't bring it all up. The fact is that all these measures that will come, and I believe that the National Assembly will confirm them, in accordance with the state aid rules laid down in European legislation, and will, as has been said, improve significantly the business and support environment, attract new foreign investors in Slovenia, and make it easier for companies already present to stay with us and encourage them to continue expanding their business. So, behind all these stories that we're doing with a vision, with some serious purpose and strategy, are human destiny. For example, some parts of Slovenia are now awakening, such as Kočevje, the Maribor environment and so on, but slowly but steadily. If Yaskawa now came as one of the most modern multinationals in Slovenia with the production of robots and other state-of-the-art technologies, she came here to produce for the whole of Europe. This means that with the help of the Ministry of Education, we have also established a special department at a vocational school where our staff can be educated in time for employment in Yaskawa, that is, in this new factory. This will be a centre for all of Europe, which will especially put Slovenia on the world map and, of course, the environment already has positive effects. And there's gonna be a lot more of these stories, and I believe in them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u35	I thank the Prime Minister for his answers. In accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we turn to the questions raised at the 34th meeting of the National Assembly. First, the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Peter Gasperšič, will answer Mr Ljub Žnidar's question about the delay in e-roading. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u36	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members, distinguished colleagues and fellow Ministers! With regard to this issue concerning e-roading, I understand that this relates to electronic tolling in the free movement of goods vehicles, i.e. for vehicles exceeding 3.5 tonnes. For the implementation of this project, the introduction of this tolling is, of course, the responsibility and responsibility of Dars as a whole. But I would like to make some explanations here regarding the delay. According to the information we have, it is certainly a demanding construction project on one side, and in particular a demanding project in terms of information technology. The first phase of the projects, this is the construction phase itself, this is the construction of 125 portals, on which antennas and video surveillance cameras are installed, has already been performed before the deadline, and this was completed by the beginning of the main tourist season this summer. At that time, Dars also started registering users, first of all domestic carriers. All together, it is estimated that more than 100,000 users will have to be registered, so that the registration will take place until the envisaged inclusion of this system. According to the contract itself Dars had with the contractor, this is the consortium of Telekom Slovenije and the Norwegian company Q-Free, and there has been a two-month delay in the transfer or establishment of the system by the contractor, which is now envisaged to be a functioning system implemented at the end of November of this year. Then it will begin with a thorough testing of the system itself. The fact is, once the existing toll system is shut down, the new electronic system must operate in a reliable and flawless manner. Here I would also say that Slovenia is the first country to move from effective tolling at toll stations with prisons to a completely free traffic flow without prisons. Other countries that have introduced an electronic system in free circulation, such as Austria, Germany, Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and the latter, had either guilt before the introduction of electronic tolls for freight vehicles, and this was not even charged in Germany, so that they did not face any risk of loss of revenue at the time of the transition. We, you know, collect €220 million a year or about €600,000 a day, so the system must work perfectly on the first day. Thus, according to Dars' plans, the new toll system will be activated and fully operational as of 1 April 2018, which is somehow also in line with the completion of the winter service. After this date, it will also be possible to approach the removal itself, gradually removing toll stations on the motorway system. I would like to stress here once again that the main objective is reliability and stability of operation, because we cannot afford to have any imperfections in the new system, as this would result in the collapse of the collected tolls. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u37	Mr Ljubo Žnidar, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much, distinguished minister, for, I would say, a well-described condition in the delay of electronic tolling on highways. However, when we take a closer look at the matter, this matter is a little bit more interesting. It is true that somehow in Slovenia we rushed to switch to electronic freight tolling. I would say that in this contractual relationship, risks are not fully managed, because there are no strangers, no unknown geological conditions, and so on, but it is a very transparent approach, rather a simple matter. However, all of this is related to resources, of course with a lack of income and of course with additional requests for an annex, despite all the fact that the same contractor – we know that for Q-Free is actually hiding Slovenian company Traffic design, which is thus in full control of this electronic part on motorways, on the one hand the same company will now do the maintenance work of the ABC system and on the other hand comes with a new annex for this period. Here is a very interesting thing, and Dars is losing his income in this way, so this thing isn't quite so easy and it's [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u39	Minister of Infrastructure Dr. Peter Gasperšič, you have the floor to complete the response.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. In fact, I'd like to repeat what I've already said. During the introduction of this electronic toll in free traffic and current, Dars in particular follows this moment of reliability and stability of the operation of the system, because, as has been pointed out, every day of some poor operation, incomplete, insecure operation, when all users were not fully tolled, could bring great losses to Dars. Therefore, once the prisoners have been opened, it is necessary to have a reliable and thoroughly tested toll system, which within one month, as it was, if they remained at the initial deadline, 1. One, we simply couldn't guarantee it. In addition, during winter, there is already an increased risk of potential incomplete tolling due to the snowiness of vehicles. In short, with this goal of managing really all risks, Dars decided to finally lift up the prisons and leave tolling to the new system on April 1. I am confident that all the obligations arising from the contract between Dars and the contractor will also be properly monitored, controlled, so that no unnecessary overpayments will occur in any way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u41	Mr Ljubo Žnidar, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a debate on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u42	Dear Minister, thank you very much for this part of the answer, but I believe that a public debate should be held, because of the risk management of this project, as a result of the loss of revenue from Dars, as I have already said in the question itself, the costs actually accrue here even if a system of 1. 1., there would be no failure to collect the toll greater than today. That's what they say. It can't get any worse. Here, by extending the time limit, we are also extending the contract on one side for maintenance and on the other hand for additional works to the same contractor, because we know that it is hiding behind both parties, both for ABC and, of course, now for electronic tolling, the Slovenian Traffic Design Company. That's interesting. In short, it is an irrational spending of money, in this case not a budget, but, look, Dars is a state-owned society and must actually deal very cost-effectively with his resources. I therefore propose that a public debate be held on this.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u43	Mr Ljubo Žnidar, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 16 November 2017 in the framework of the votes. Mr Peter Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure, will now answer Mr Jan Škobernet's question regarding the construction of the third development axis.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u44	Thank you, President, for your word. Thank you, too, Mr Jan Škobernet, for the question raised regarding the implementation of the third development axis project, both in the north and in the south. I would like to say, in the introductions, that the Government is very well aware of the importance of building this unnecessary road, the links to both remote regions in the north of Koroška, Savinj-Shalska Valley and in the south of the Belokran region. We know that the current road links do not allow for an appropriate standard, which is why the population suffers, the economy suffers, tourism. All of this therefore makes life and work in these remote regions difficult. In fact, at the beginning of this mandate, the third development axis project has already been fully identified by the Government as one of its priorities. Thus, in this mandate, we have already provided accommodation in this lower part of the A1 to Velenje motorway, which is in the northern part; in the southern part we have this third development axis, which was originally planned to be carried out under the auspices of the Slovenian Infrastructure Directorate, this investment has been transferred to Darsa's investment framework, which in fact makes it possible to implement this project, because otherwise we know that the third development axis should be invested from the budget, which would significantly make it difficult to realize in the southern part. It is important to know that these are financially demanding projects. In the northern part, from the highway all the way to Slovenj Gradac, which is now considered a single project, is estimated to be worth a good 600 million euros. In the southern part there is an estimate of poor EUR 400 million. In fact, we are talking together about the billion investments that Dars will have to make over the next six years, by 2024 all these sections are planned to be built. I'd go straight for it. You are probably aware that we signed two protocols with local communities in both the north and the south this year. In the north of the month of early July, in the southern part of early October, both protocols are in fact similar in nature and lay down more precisely the deadlines and stages for the implementation of this project. I'm just gonna repeat what those hands are. In the northern part of the Protocol activities are carried out for the transfer of construction plots to the field, i.e. from a geodetic measurement, a call has already been made for the selection of operators for the purchase of real estate, and in the final phase a call for the production of project documentation has been made for the section to Velenje and an environmental permit has been obtained. So the entire section from Šentrupert to Slovenj Gradac is expected to start construction work no later than the end of 2019 and the preparatory work is expected to be completed by 2023. In the southern part, the section is divided into two stages. The short phase takes place from the motorway to the eastern part of the New Town to the Osredek connection, this is the Revoz factory, which is about 5 kilometers long, here is actually completed the transfer of parcels to the ground, the architectural competition for choosing the most appropriate bridge solution is under way, the preparation of project documentation is already under way, and the purchase of buildings that are scheduled for demolition is actually already under way. All activities are in full progress and this section is foreseen for the construction permit to be obtained at the end of 2018, 2019 starting construction, which will be completed in 2022. While the remaining sections of the Malina connection, including the tunnel, are essentially carried out with a one-year delay and are expected to be completed in 2024. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u45	We are moving on to questions from Members of Parliament and Members in the first round. Mr. Marijan Pojbič, you have the floor to ask the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Peter Gasperšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, it is often on the part of this government and also personally to hear you try to solve the problems of people in the area you are covering as Minister. I must say and I hope that the words are one and the actions show the exact opposite picture, as in most cases when the Government speaks one and does the other. For I am one of those who drive almost every day from Sweet Top to Ljubljana and back and so I drive 362 kilometers a day, which means about 60,000 kilometers at the annual level and spend at least four hours every day just driving. But that's not the most important thing. It is essential that I spend about this much time driving to Ljubljana in the morning from Sweet Top to Domžale's exports, which is just a few kilometres ahead of Ljubljana, from Domžale's exports to Ljubljana's centre, which is critical. All of us who drive down the Stairway have the same problems, and we've been standing in a column for almost an hour to get to our jobs. This seems unacceptable and unacceptable to me. And the second problem we face too often on the Stairway is the overtaking of trucks. This has become unbearable and very dangerous. I think that the traffic regime should be changed in such a way that it would not be allowed to overrun trucks, as it would thus improve the traffic flow and, at the same time, increase the safety that is on the styrian foot of the motorway, according to my assessment at a minimum level. I'm afraid if the situation doesn't improve and the frequency of trucks on the station will increase, we'll be able to talk slowly about the highway of death. I hope that none of us want this, and I am sure that neither Minister Gasperšič nor the Slovenian Government will. That's why I'm asking you: What will you do at the Ministry to make the situation better? When can we expect you to prohibit the overtaking of cargo vehicles among yourselves, since these vehicles are more than daily on this highway section? Please, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u47	Minister of Infrastructure Dr. Peter Gasperšič, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u48	Thank you, President, for your word. Thank also Member Marian Pojbič for the question raised. Indeed, it is a pressing problem of increasing the density of traffic on the motorway network, which has in particular become intense now after the economic situation has improved, when transport, both freight and passenger vehicles, is growing strongly. At the Ministry, we are very aware of the fact that day-to-day congestion occurs in particular in the morning peaks, which are becoming problematic from the point of view of the standard of application, since both Styria and the lower leg also have congestions that can extend travel time by half an hour, as well as an hour if accidents occur, and even more. That is why Dars and I have taken an intensive approach to finding solutions to alleviate this problem. Of course, as the ultimate goal, for which we all agree that the problem can be addressed effectively, is the construction of third belts, both on the whole of the Ljubljana Oblast or at least on its larger part, as well as on all the descending legs from all four directions, it is said, so the Stajerska from the direction Domžal, Grosuplja, Vrhnika and also from the direction of Kranj on the Gornji Strak. Of course, by then it is possible to implement certain short-term and medium-term measures, and even a number of other measures, which I will only quickly take, and which Dars is in fact also partially implementing. Short-term measures are, of course, faster to implement, but also have a relatively modest effect. Dars is already doing some of them. One of these measures, for example, is to ease traffic ahead of critical congestion points by reducing speed itself and also to overtake trucks, is already prohibited at the most traffic-laden sections. This year, we banned the overtaking of trucks for trucks on the Ljubljana Ring, and in the past, the ban on speeding was imposed on the Styrian Leg, but only in certain hours of the morning and certain hours of the afternoon. We are now agreeing that the DARS on the most burdened sections will impose this ban on all the bright part of the day. Such similar measures are also known in neighbouring countries. We know that, for example, in Italy, this ban on speeding is very widespread, and Austria is also used to limit speed. During the medium-term measures, he would mention, in particular, the possibility of driving along the drawbar, where the drawbar should be adequately reinforced and extended and then intended for traffic at the time of the formation of the major spikes, but therefore a variable traffic signal – the so-called information panels allowing the opening of the lane at the time of the largest peaks – should be set up. Long-term measures, however, mean building a third lane, with other measures, such as shifting the maximum share of freight to rail. We have talked a lot about this in the second track project itself, which will also provide more information systems, establish public passenger transport in a way that will enable as many passengers as possible to use public passenger transport and so on. These are the measures. However, the ban on speeding and speed limitation is already in place and will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u49	Mr. Marijan Pojbič, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr Minister, for what you have said, but look, Mr Minister, I would not ask you this question today if I did not drive on this road. And how can someone say to me here, and it is you that the ban on speeding for trucks is already being implemented, and when I drive from Ljubljana to Maribor every 3 minutes the truck is being rushed by a whole truckload of trucks. How is it possible for you to say one thing and in fact something else is happening there? I mean, I didn't ask you for free. I expect from you that appropriate measures will be taken by all those who must then, even if certain rules are laid down, respect this. As Minister, I ask you to act in such a way as to call those responsible for controlling whether this is being done in the way you have just said or not. And I think it's definitely what you said, so I'm also asking you in addition to asking that the whole part of the light day or how you expressed yourself that it would be forbidden to overrun trucks at that time. I'm asking you to tell me: When will this be done and will it really come into force? Otherwise, I'm gonna put a camera in my car so she can record it, and I'm gonna bring it to you one day so you can see who's telling the truth, you or me. It's one thing and another thing. You said building the third belt, yes, that's the only solution, that's definitely the only solution. But we're back on track. Tell me: When are you planning this solution? By the time I'm old or buried or I don't know, then this solution will be adopted, and I'll have another ten years, because I have at least that much pension, driving every day the way I'm driving now? And I'm not talking about myself, because I'm not important at all, and I'm not even a problem, the problem is people, there's an increasing frequency of people driving from Maribor, from Styria, Koroška, from Prekmurje, Pomurje and so on to work in Ljubljana.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u51	Minister of Infrastructure Dr. Peter Gasperšič, you have the floor to complete the response.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u52	I fully agree with you that this is about people, this is not about an individual. All too much traffic is halted in these congestions, so they are already studying the implementation of these measures at Dars to ensure that this time limit, the ban on speeding in the mornings and evenings of the afternoon ends, is introduced a whole light part of the day, for example from six in the morning to six in the evening, on these most burdened sections, this is a good part of the Styrian leg as well as the coastal, no doubt, here where the greatest density of freight vehicles is. When will this be introduced? Actually, Darsa and I have started to negotiate and talk about these things in these months. I will insist that this is done as soon as possible. However, the fact that this signalling will be respected is a major problem. Here we must also ensure some proper control and then also sanction this non-compliance, because so far we have seen both on the Ljubljana bypass and on those sections where this time-limited ban has already been imposed so that this is simply not taken into account, in particular by foreign and domestic carriers. There is no doubt that important progress will have to be made in the control of this measure itself. With regard to the performance of the third lane, Dars plans to set up a third lane first on the western Ljubljana bypass. In fact, the projects are already ready here, so Dars will also have this in the implementation programme in the coming years. However, plans have already been drawn up and this will also gradually start to take place in stages, as I have already said, the strengthening and expansion of the runway and the deployment of this traffic in these largest peaks both on the eastern bypass and on these bumpers that I have mentioned. Here these investments will be carried out gradually, and for a more accurate timetable I can then provide you with more accurate information from Dars. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u53	Violeta Tomić, you have the floor to question the Minister of Finance of Mags. Matei Vranictor Erman.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I will ask the Minister a very specific question. We talk about financial sustainability all the time when we talk about the welfare of citizens. On the other hand, we have a very privileged position of religious communities, especially those of the largest Roman Catholic Church, which, in addition to continuing to give her tax breaks, we know that it is the non-taxation of religious services that have some informal prices, also pays them contributions from the Ministry of Culture in fact from the same line where contributions to self-employed people in culture go, but these, unlike religious servants, must prove excellence, take into account censorship, report every three years on what they have done and so on. In short, not only does the state grant forgiveness to religious officials and RCCs as the largest religious community, but it is also very much financed. And here citizens and citizens, as well as me indirectly, are really interested in very precisely, if you can tell me: What is the financing of the RDC in 2016? I am also interested in all related legal persons about them, because we know that the most money goes to education, Catholic kindergartens, schools, because here is a perfectly clear calculation – the input is money and out we get ideology as usual. This is also indirect financing of a purely specific policy option. I am, therefore, interested in all the financing of the RCC and all the related public money legal entities, i.e. from the budget. It is your duty to answer me very precisely, very precisely, because it is the lack of transparency that gives an even greater sense that this is a deeply violated constitutional principle of separation between the State and the religious communities. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u55	Minister of Finance Mag. Matthew Vrančnik Erman, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u56	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Thank you so much for asking. Two cases need to be separated in the financing of the Roman Catholic Church or its associated institutions. One part of the funding is based on the law on interstate arrangements and agreements between the RCC and the State to directly finance their religious activities. This is mainly about paying contributions to religious officials; in 2016, the funds for this purpose were EUR 606 thousand 59. In all other areas, institutions established by the RCC or the RCC may themselves run for public funds under the same conditions as other stakeholders. Let me mention other elements within which religious institutions or RDC-established entities participate. The Ministry of Culture provides funds for monumental protection and restoration operations. In 2016, the RDC-related entities received €371,000 in EUR 843. They may further participate in the institutions established by the RCC, including in the funds earmarked for the implementation of humanitarian programmes. To this end, Slovenian Karitas received EUR 426 000 216 in 2016, not only direct payments from the state budget but also the funds allocated to the taxpayers for the income of 0,5 % of the premium. Furthermore, via the Ministry of Culture for the implementation of the radio programme and the publication of a religious newspaper, they received €139,000 479 in response to the call. In order to carry out the archiving activities under a special agreement between the RCC and the Ministry of Culture, €170,000 was received. As part of the operation of private schools, again on the basis of the general rules on co-financing of private schools, RDC-owned schools received EUR 9.3 million in 2016. All the numbers are for 2016, which together means 12 million and a good 50,000 euros. This data does not include data from the MNZ and the MORS, because they separate them and we have not been able to obtain them from Friday to today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u57	Ambassador Violeta Tomić, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u58	Yes, Your Honor, I thought you'd be burning for at least a minute because the list is much longer. That is why I expect you to deliver this list to the Left Group in writing, because you've obviously been smoking for a minute on the explanation by which these amounts are based. You know, according to our data, the Ministry of Culture of the Seven Registered Churches and Other Religious Communities, for example, in 2014, for which I have information, has allocated a million 690 thousand 465.49 euros and of this to the Catholic Church a million 602 thousand 203.82 euros. See, in Slovenia we have 50 registered religious communities and one of them has such a privileged position, of course we have a concordat signed with the Vatican, the Holy Headquarters, and yes, also Pahor, Cerar, Mr Erjavec and Mr Brglez were crumbling, supposedly, in the Vatican because the necessity of reading our desired changes to the Constitution. In short, we have quite a few pressing problems. I want to know: What is your position on our recommendations to the Government that we have made against the non-taxation of religious services and the payment of contributions? Are funds increasing or decreasing in relation to previous years? What is your opinion on our recommendations to the Government regarding the separation of religious communities and countries? I'm asking for those answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u59	Minister of Finance Mag. Matthew Vrančnik Erman, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Your basic question referred to 2016 and for 2016 I presented to you very detailed details of the payments that were paid either to the RCC or to the institutions or legal persons set up by this organisation. The data are derived from data available at the Ministry in the context of information support for the implementation of the state budget, so-called MFERAC. Data at this point on whether these funds are growing or falling cannot be given to you because I have listed data for 2016, this is for the question you have predicted, not for previous years. Of course, we can always complement this part of the answer on the basis of your written question. As far as tax exemptions or reliefs are concerned. In principle, taxation is not an entity, but is another subject of taxation, either transaction or income. Through the existing legislation, we ensure that both transactions and revenues are treated equally and that they are treated in the same way as other cases. As regards the issuance of invoices or the taxation of individual religious services, we are based on the European Value Added Tax Directive, which clearly determines which activities are exempt from and which are not. This also entails further obligations regarding the possible issuance or certification of invoices. With regard to all other incomes achieved by religious communities, the same principles apply as in many other countries, and I do not see any special derogation here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u61	Ambassador Violeta Tomić, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. Yes, of course, Minister, you are also a member of a sect that is very close to the Catholic community, and I believe that you are heartily more on that side. But we must not forget, and Prime Minister Cerar has just said that those who have made a bank hole should answer. Zvon One and Zvon Two also got rid of the state money and the loss had to be covered by the citizens of Slovenia. A lot of entrepreneurs went down, and the state didn't help them, and the RDC, you see, did. Therefore, given that the actual property of religious communities is not taken into account at all, and you said that we are in line with the European Directive, it will not hold, no one has returned in nature as much as we have returned. In short, given that many believers also no longer trust an institution that deals more with business than it does with spiritual care alone and that the necessity has also been politically influenced and pressured by our top representatives of the state summit, I think we should definitely discuss this at the next meeting. Because the church elite in Slovenia is very strong and unfortunately the political elite is very helpful, including financially, this church elite, which I think is totally unacceptable and many citizens of Slovenia are convinced that they are being wronged and that they are not treated equally. I therefore ask that we hold a debate in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u63	Now, here's how I'm going to read what I have to, and then I'm going to say something else, depending on what the content was, because it wasn't respectful or insulting. [[…]] Ambassador Violeta Tomić, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 16 November 2017 in the framework of the votes. Regarding this offensive work: representatives of any religious community in Slovenia must be respected on the basis of our Constitution. Our Constitution provides for the separation of the church from the State in Article 7, while at the same time providing an opportunity for anyone in this country, public expression and private expression of religious affiliation or anything like that. When you put these two matters together, that also means respect or a positive relationship between the church and the state, in any case. In view of what has been mentioned between and insinuation according to the presence of the Minister herself, to which she has warned me, I must also remind you further that this is inappropriate to insinuate. That's why I'm giving you a warning before you use it procedurally. Procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u64	Yeah, thanks for the chance of a procedural objection. Indeed, yes, of course all religious communities are equal and have all their spaces under the sun and in Slovenia. However, I must point out that it was the positive atmosphere that threatened me considerably by e-mails. Is that allowed? When we have only submitted a request to respect the constitutional principle of separation between the State and the religious communities. This should then apply in both directions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u65	I think we're done here. Dr. Dragan Matić, you have the floor to ask the Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr. Maja Makovec Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u66	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Dr. Maja Makovec Brenčič! Teachers and the Syndicate of Education and Education have been actively drawing attention to the issue of regression for food, which some directors have still conditioned with more than four hours of presence in the institution and consequently miscalculated. In the past, the Ministry has issued two circulars, which also address issues of regression for nutrition. In both districts it is stated that in relation to the payment of the food regression, I quote, “it belongs to the public employee of the food regression for the day of presence at work. As the day of presence at work shall be considered if the worker works more than four hours a day. The director shall be responsible for the recording of working time and the organisation of the work process at school.” End of quote. School directors interpret this differently and, as a result, account for it differently. In order to avoid further misunderstandings by trade union officials, the Education and Education Union noted that employees who work more than four working hours a day are entitled to a food regression, and I would point out that the scope of their daily pedagogical obligation is not important, nor is their physical presence at the employer's headquarters. In determining the eligibility of an individual worker to a food regression due to the nature of the teaching work, it is not possible to insist on four or more hours of physical presence in the workplace, but rather on the performance of the works and tasks set out in the employment contract. This means that the right to a diet regression must be linked to the teacher's monthly obligation. In this regard, I am interested in: How does the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport intend to resolve the gap between individual schools regarding the understanding and payment of the regression for lunch? I also want to know: Does the Ministry of Education prescribe total sums for the reported days of the presence and the corresponding regression for food and transport to work, or are these items accounted for separately? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u67	Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr. Maja Makovec Brenčič, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u68	Dear President, honourable Member! They are entitled to a regression on the basis of Article 3 of the Annex to the Collective Contract for the Activities of Education and Education, which is also published in the Official Journal of the European Union. 40/12, those employees who work more than 4 hours a day or work shorter working hours on the basis of the rules on pensions and invalidity insurance may also have health insurance or parental leave rules. This means that when dealing with this right to payment of the regression for food, taking into account both the work carried out by the worker at the workplace and the work carried out by the worker outside the employer's premises, we know that the school has, of course, a programme that is not ever carried out in the workplace itself, that is, within the school, but is also, of course, connected with the conduct of excursions, with the execution of different days of activities and so on. For the days when the worker is absent from work due to leave, hospital absence or service travel, the worker is not justified in this way, so this is true in this article and the directors respect it. However, what may have led to this different treatment within schools, as you have also highlighted, is also the domain at this point in time of coordination of the performance of the working time established after 25 years within the school space, within the implementation of this framework, which is already agreed with the union, which is now being tested for the implementation of all the criteria that we have set out. On the inside, there will also be a balance between whatever else may remain different within individual schools, including the treatment of the regression itself or the way food is paid. This is an important question, for it has been dragging itself for several years and the union has rightly raised it. For this purpose, however, we have set up working hours in such a way that, of course, all payments which are now clearly linked to the performance of both teaching work obligations and, of course, all relevant rights belonging to the teacher, regardless of whether the work is carried out within four hours at the workplace or outside the workplace, because we know that flexibility is now much more appropriate within these working hours of the teacher, or for the first time in the last two and a half decades at all. I expect that even if there is still a problem within the test, including within the unions as well as on the teachers' side, payment will be arranged as it should be, this is unique everywhere, in accordance with the criteria set.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u69	Dr. Dragan Matić, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u70	Madam Minister, I am pleased that you are solving this issue at the Ministry of Culture in your dialogue with the competent union. Of course, it would be completely illogical to apply the practice that exists in some schools to attach this to the physical presence of an individual teacher, because then it would probably be a different logic that when a teacher is longer employed in a school activity, either on an excursion or elsewhere, then, if it were to exceed 8 hours, he would be entitled to a multiple of this daily regression for food. This can lead to many illogicalities and absurdities. That is why, as has been said, this issue has been resolved for a long time, unfortunately there have been certain derogations in practice and teachers, when they compare their situation and see that these different treatments are taking place, matters which should not be dealt with differently are justified by some of them. So, of course, I'm glad that this is how you're going to handle it. But at least if you could tell me something: In what time is this solution expected? Will this solution now be legalized in the form of a regulation, or will it only be in the form of instructions, a ministerial district or something like that?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u71	Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr. Maja Makovec Brenčič, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u72	Thank you, President. The Working Group on the Implementation of the Agreed Frameworks, which is already part of the KPVIZ, is already working and is also addressing some other issues that have arisen through the implementation of the teacher's working time and work obligations. Rather, it is two categories to be dealt with in accordance with the substantive tasks actually performed by the teacher and they are diverse. That is why this agreed framework is so important that we first test it, this is the school year, and in the next school year it is fully introduced in all schools. Even if necessary, we will complement the KPVIZ if it turns out that there has been a lack of detail now or that anything else needs to be changed in view of the ground check.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u73	Mag. Marko Pogačnik, you have the floor to question the Minister of Finance of Mags. Mateji Vraničar Erman and Minister for Economic Development and Technology Mr Zdravek Počvalšku.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u74	Honorable President, colleagues, colleagues! I would like to ask the following question to the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Economy. We all know that the United Kingdom countries decided at the referendum to leave the European Union. I want to know: What measures and what activities have the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economy initiated so far, or are you planning to move to Slovenia in the future in order to move European institutions or businesses now established in the United Kingdom? I'm sure we should take this opportunity to have a great opportunity here. According to some studies, one in five companies in the United Kingdom would decide to transfer headquarters to one of the European Union countries. According to a pessimistic scenario in the financial sector, one fifth of businesses will move and about 80 thousand jobs will move. Finally, we now know that there has been a great fight for which European country or European place within the European Union will now be the seat of the Medicines Agency, which is established in London. One of the agencies, however, is the European Banking Authority. I want to know: What activities have your ministry carried out so far and what measures have you taken so far?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u75	Minister of Finance Mag. Matthew Vrančnik Erman, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor and thank you very much for the question. I'll split the answer in two. In the first part, I would focus on European institutions moving from the UK to other Member States and in the second part on measures to attract foreign companies. As regards the transfer or relocation of European institutions from the United Kingdom to other European Union countries, I should point out that the European Commission for both institutions has proposed a set of criteria to be met by a country wishing to run for office, an alternative seat for one or another institution. On the basis of these criteria, the government has already adopted a decision in April this year not to run for Slovenia for either institution. We have estimated that Slovenia would be difficult to meet the criteria laid down by the European Commission for both institutions and that the possibility of success of both or one of these institutions coming to Slovenia was relatively small or disproportionate to the contribution needed for such an application. The second part of our powers concerns the business environment, which is supposed to attract possible relocation of companies based in the United Kingdom to Slovenia. We estimate that in this area general measures should be given priority to improving the competitiveness of the Slovenian business environment in general and not to preparing specific incentives only for companies moving from the UK to Slovenia. Such specific measures for this purpose alone could also be questionable from the point of view of the Business Tax Code, which is applicable in the European Union as a whole. Taking into account that Government and the Ministry of Finance give priority to general tax measures, such as general incentives for investing in equipment or investing in research and development, which are very favourable in comparison with other European Union countries, the effective tax rate in the field of corporate taxation is, last but not least, very competitive in Slovenia. We have also taken the first steps to reduce the burden of labour costs. In particular, we have focused this year's package on labour costs related to the internationalisation of Slovenian companies or the arrival of foreign companies on the Slovenian market. Once again, I think that general tax measures are more appropriate, which generally promote the business environment and not specific to the individual case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Zdravko Restoršek, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u78	Presidents, Members and Members of Parliament! Thank you for the question, Mr Member. At the Ministry, we are aware of the importance that Britain's exit from the European Union will have to our economy. We are dealing with two issues, first of all by maintaining the existing economic framework and secondly, we want to take advantage of British companies so that they remain within the European Union with some activities. In short, we are working together to prepare an exit strategy on our European side as a ministry, in order to ensure that the new contractual framework ensures a stable business environment for the economic operators of the European Union and Slovenia and to preserve access to the UK market. In doing so, it will be necessary to identify the basis for the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the common market and the conditions for membership in the World Trade Organisation and to establish an appropriate model of the trade agreement. We will advocate a new contractual framework, to the greatest extent possible, to preserve the existing scope and to gain new opportunities.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik, would you like to complete your response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u80	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I think it is sad, as we have heard mainly from the Minister of Finance's response. With this, we have seen that this government and this coalition have not taken any action and have not taken any action to take advantage of much opportunity and that at least one part of the companies or that one of the European institutions due to brexit from the United Kingdom would move to Slovenia. Not one. Dear Minister, you said that for a drug agency, such conditions were laid down to move to Slovenia so that Slovenia did not meet them. Can you please give me at least three such terms? Give me the three terms you mentioned. I don't have these behaviors, and today the main candidates are to get the headquarters of this agency, Milan and Bratislava. I want to know: What conditions does Bratislava meet and which Slovenia does not? It's sad here. Only in the financial sector, Madam Minister, is there an opportunity for 80 000 new jobs in here. According to my behaviour, there are three key things that Slovenia should do here and that it does not actually have. What are the conditions for a decision to be taken by companies, multinationals or agencies for the transfer of headquarters to Slovenia? Incentive tax environment, which we do not have in Slovenia today, ensures that courts can resolve disputes in Slovenia in English as well as in international schools in Slovenia. And all these three things Slovenia doesn't have! He doesn't have any fulfilled ones, just like he should have. These are the key issues. A favourable tax environment, resolution of disputes in English and international schools. We know that we have three international schools in Slovenia today. And here I think Slovenia has lost its chance. Dear Minister: Please give me three conditions that Slovenia does not fulfil in this invitation to tender, as you said, for a medicine agency.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Mag has the floor. Matthew the Vranic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u82	Thank you very much. The European Commission, as I mentioned, has set for both institutions a set of criteria to be met by the candidate. The first criterion ensured that the Agency would be able to move and start operating in new premises from the date of exit. Second, the appropriate accessibility of the location by public transport, including air links. Furthermore, the existence of adequate educational capacity for children of employees, adequate access to the labour market for employees' partners, social security and health care for children and employees' partners, ensuring business continuity and the Agency's geographical dispersion. I did not say that Slovenia did not meet these conditions, I said that it would be difficult to meet them and that it would be difficult to be successful with its candidacy. Member States have so far sent 27 proposals to the Council on 23 seats for both agencies, 19 tenders were accepted as the seat of the European Medicines Agency and 8 as the seat of the European Banking Authority. With regard to your claim regarding the tax environment, I would like to mention that Slovenia's tax environment or burden is still lower than the European average, the average burden in Slovenia. As I have already mentioned, the State or the Government has been discussing the possibility of a candidate already in April this year, since the European Commission has set a deadline for Member States to submit a proposal for a candidate for a seat by 31 July 2017 in order to allow the selection of the corresponding new location to take place in a timely manner. However, as regards the transfer or transfer of businesses from Great Britain to other Member States of the European Union, as I mentioned in the first part of the reply, I am in favour of the view that more appropriate measures, which generally make the business environment more attractive, rather than specific measures for a particular case, such as the case of UK exit from the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik, do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u84	I thank you once again for your word, Mr President. I will use the Rule of Procedure to hold a public debate. Personally, I am sure that Slovenia here, at least in the light of the response that the Minister of Finance has now given, is losing a lot of opportunities. A huge opportunity to ensure that part of the agencies or companies currently established in the United Kingdom will move to Slovenia because of brexit, the United Kingdom’s exit from the European Union. According to some studies, at least one of the five UK companies is expected to decide to transfer to one of the other European Union countries, with some 80 000 new jobs in the financial sector alone. Look, Minister, it's a sad answer, not even a handful of efforts this government or the Ministry of Finance have made to try to get one of these companies. It is not just the financial sector, but one of the major companies interested in headquartering outside the UK after brexit is also Vodafone, not listing other companies. Three key issues, however, are the condition of a favourable tax environment, the possibility of resolving disputes in English and several international schools. These, I believe, are the three key criteria on the basis of which companies will decide to change their seat. It is sad that Slovenia did not at least sign up for a call for a European Medicines Agency transfer. The fact is that now, Madam Minister, you have confirmed what we always advocate in the Slovenian Democratic Party – that under your mandate Slovenia has also surpassed countries such as Slovakia, because Bratislava is in the game for this city. And the government has decided that the conditions given for the transfer of this agency, Slovenia, unfortunately, cannot be met. You have read aloud what these conditions are, heard by Members and Members, heard by the general public, who are now listening. It is true to me that, if not a scandal, it is sad that Slovenia has not been able to meet these conditions given by the European Commission that the Government of Mir Cerar and the coalition of the Modern Centre Party, the Social Democrats and Desus have not made enough efforts to at least send a report. Not that either. 19 countries have decided to run for this procedure, and today it is in the final, say, Bratislava.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 16 November 2017 in the framework of the votes. Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar will ask the Minister of Public Administration Boris Koprivnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u86	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary! I ask you about the content of the agreement of the Prime Minister, Dr. Mir Cerar, or members of the Government with the President of the KKR Global Institute, David Petraeus, retired American general, also known as the commander of the coalition forces in Iraq and Afghanistan, who is also former director of the American CIA Intelligence Agency. The purchase of Pro Plus by KKR is increasingly linked to this year's May visit by former director of Cia and President of KKR to Dr. Mir Cerar. The meeting is intended to discuss the investment policy of KKR in Slovenia. The fact is that the investment of KKR in Pro Plus was made through the United Group. With regard to this investment, experts point out the danger of intertwining media and telecommunications activities, which certainly leads to the devastation of the Slovenian media landscape and which is also incompatible with the public interest of the State of Slovenia. Mr Minister, after writing to the media, you were also present for at least one such conversation with the President of KKR, so please provide the following information: Which members of the government have you met with the President of KKR so far? When did these meetings take place? What persons were present at each meeting? What were the talks about? What has the President of the Government or individual minister agreed with the President of the KKR? The president of the Committee on Culture, a member of your SMC party, recently pointed out the lobbyist pressures of the US and the KKR Fund in connection with the purchase of Pro Plus and called on all involved to report any lobbying of the KKR and other US lobbyists. It explains that it is something that can jeopardize the foundations of democracy in our country and means taking over the fourth branch of power. A similar media acquisition by the US or KKR, perhaps the CIA, is supposed to be taking place in Croatia, but before that it happened to Serbia, where they had already abolished the domestic independent B92 programme because it was supposed to be disruptive. Prior to that, the General in Serbia should be actively involved in the lobbying process. Serbia is expected to visit twice and also meet the then Serbian Prime Minister Vukic. For this reason, I would ask if you could explain more: What was actually going on in these media-exposed discussions with government members? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Minister Boris Koprivnikar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u88	Thank you, President, and thank you, honourable Member, for this question. I hope you'll understand that in response I can talk about the meetings that I attended alone. On behalf of the Prime Minister, I cannot explain how and what they were talking about. Still, I have some information. You are probably aware that, given that I am the President's Commissioner for Information Technology, I often meet with various domestic and foreign companies. I always do this transparently, always non-discriminatory, especially with two purposes. One purpose is to represent what we want to achieve in the field of technological development in Slovenia, what are the key orientations for us, and the other is to learn from potential investors, technology companies and others what their development policies are, in particular, what technologies they can offer and may be interesting to us. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. 5. I also met with their representatives at the KKR initiative. On their part, there were five other members of the delegation besides General Petraeus, and on our part we were three, a consultant in the cabinet of Minister Domen Bogoglav, a colleague of Nina Langerholc, who is the head of the cabinet, and my trifle. The initiative for the meeting was on their side, but it was a principled meeting. They presented what their current investments in Slovenia are and in principle their willingness to invest further in Slovenia, that they are interested in the market, and we presented them with what are the guidelines that we often publicly promote in terms of Slovenia's green reference countries in digital Europe, with which we want to accelerate all technologies that also promote digital development. No concrete investments, concrete proposals, concrete conclusions were discussed or proposed. Thus, neither have the KCR representatives proposed concrete decisions nor have they been adopted on our part, of course. According to my behavior, the representatives are 17. 5. also met in the Cabinet of the President of the Government, and in these days also in the Ministry of Finance. As far as we have checked, we have also all three duly reported a lobbyist contact with the list of participants, with the content presented and also, as usual, and as you can see, we have already explained in the public what the purpose or content of this meeting was, so I do not have much to say to you. But I share with you the thought of possible integration of infrastructure and content work, and I must say that I myself was quite surprised at the decision when it was a question of whether such purchase was possible. However, the Ministry of Public Administration is responsible for the infrastructure work, so we cannot go into the media and into it; neither do I understand them nor are they within my jurisdiction. However, I agree with you that this is an area of possible integration that needs to be very carefully examined and carefully considered before it is possible to allow such acquisition. But, as I say, it goes beyond my powers, and so does my behavior.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, will you request a complete response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u90	Thank you so much for asking. The fact is that this issue of the content of the talks is also a matter of media spirits, we can say. Thus, on the evening of May 19, 2017, in an article entitled American General Spying for Investments reported on various contacts at individual ministries, including those mentioned by you, he also spoke about a meeting with the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Economic Affairs Eva Stravs Podlogar. At the same time, it's all wrapped up in a fog. That's why I'm actually interested: Were the records of these meetings then kept? And if they were guided – I expect them to be guided: Will you also make these records available to the public, both you and the rest of the government? Because it seems to me that this might be the best way to calm down or deny the kind of clues that exist. In fact, there are indications that this general would also receive some kind of blessing for these activities for the acquisition of Pro Plus at this May meeting. And clues would, of course, be the easiest to dismiss or prove in such a way that the records of these meetings could be made available to the public. Because I think it's necessary if there's a general in the background, of course, who was also the director of the CIA intelligence agency. Of course, then some wonder whether the current impact on networks in Slovenia will change what influences networks in the United States or CIA. And it seems to me that this is an important question and that we should [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Boris Koprivnikar, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u92	Dear Member! As it is said, we have already presented the content of the talks, we have not conducted a special record of the discussion, but of course, such discussions always take place when concrete conclusions are concluded, and the conclusions are also recorded. In this case, there was neither the initiative nor the actual decisions taken. The composition, however, of the content of the discussion was in line with the legislation – and as we always do and agree with you, even when such sensitive visits and themes – are immediately reported by the KPK, as we impose the law and we always do. I can't talk about different clues, fog backgrounds and so on, but I can't talk about it. I can explain exactly what was at the meeting where I was sitting, I explain this, I think several times already, and it is difficult to talk about hints, if I do not understand them, I have not made any commitments, as far as I am clear to me, even the President of the Government has not, discussions have been of principled nature, and if you believe me or not, we conduct such talks every week at least twice with various representatives of foreign companies, who we explain to them the philosophy of our development of networks, broadband, digital ones, and of course they are particularly interested in this as a technology firm or investor in technology companies. However, I believe that this is more the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture, which covers the competence of the media and distribution, and of investing in technology itself, as is said, no concrete arrangements. I'm sorry I can't tell you about the backgrounds because I don't have them or know them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Mahnic will ask the Minister for Education, Science and Sport, Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! In recent months, I can say in general, there has been a lot of talk in this House about the separation of the Church and the State. In particular, the political gender and Members of Parliament sitting here on the right from NSI and SDS – that is to say all the other parties, except our two – are very alert to the need for the separation of the Church and the State, despite the confusion and abuse, but only in one case, in the case of the question of the Roman Catholic Church. We know that the minister sent an inspection for the blessing of one of the primary schools, although it is a tradition, it is a custom, in the countryside it is no problem, from this part only the left socialist authority. But when it comes to another religious community, specifically for the Islamic Community, then the Government is quiet, then the political left is quiet and virtually everything is allowed. Madam Minister, there has been a lot of talk recently about the fact that the parents of children who are Muslim religions are blackmailing schools not to put their children on pork eaters. One of the principals also wrote in Legal Practice: “Last time, parents began to advertise at school who wanted us to prepare custom meals for their children for religious reasons. Of course, we cannot do this and parents were told that there is no adjustment for religious reasons.” The director adds that parents have begun to bring personal doctor’s certificate that they are children — beware! – allergic to pork. That the kids are allergic to pork! We know what it's like to get medical certificates like that. So he asks for legal advice on how to act. He wondered whether the school could request a certificate from a specialist, since a personal doctor’s certificate could also be the product of pure blackmail. Then, in the last issue of Legal Practice or the last such article is from 3 October in the Reporter, according to the Legal Practice of 28 September, Nana Weber of Weber’s law firm replied and stated that a meal without pork is not diet food. In short, Madam Minister, I would like to ask: How do you feel about that? But above all, I want to know: Will the Government of the Republic of Slovenia succumb to the pressure of the Islamic Community to actually bring their religion to schools? Not to mention all other things, including various initiatives to give certain Bosnian authors a compulsory home reading and so on. In short, we can talk about school pressure, school pressure. What will you do?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u95	Minister Maja Makovec Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor! School nutrition is governed by the School Diet Act in conjunction with the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds and, of course, applies the relevant guidelines to both primary and secondary schools. It also focuses in particular on the area where the so-called specific needs are concerned, but where these are properly proven and which are part of the public education activities or programmes, not of course in the adult field. What are you asking? You're asking what adjustments are made in schools. Let me say that these guidelines, which give guidance to schools, say that the school should adequately adapt the composition of meals to those students and students who need to be adjusted for health reasons, while the other meals must be adapted or adapted in accordance with their options. Let me say that a year or two ago, the National Institute for Public Health together, in conjunction with the Ministry of Health, has also carried out a study of how many meals a day are carried out or organised in schools at all. Between 800 and 900 of them per day and most of them come from specific needs or health benefits. That is why the Ministry of Agriculture, for example, has been implementing the so-called new schemes not only of ordering food, but also of the highest possible emphasis on locally produced food, in order to get as close as possible to nutrition and the healthy relationship of children to food and food from kindergarten onwards. What is the duty of the school, as we say. Where a medically sound reason is concerned and it is also certified, and the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport has decided on a medical basis that cannot and must not affect it, it shall also be adapted in accordance with the relevant needs of the preparation of the menus or the diet itself. At the same time, in schools, we do not impose or prevent what the child does not express himself. We respect individual decisions, and this is also a standard in education and education, but of course in accordance with the rules of each school or principal and teacher who conducts the relevant process. Any other marital solution would also have a profound effect on bringing any cooking to school, not to say by order, which is not meant to be. The aim is to try to raise children from the first year of age into as healthy a diet as possible, a diet attitude, an attitude towards food production, and not in any way to adapt to where this is not credible and justified, as it is said, in accordance with the guidelines and legislative bases. If it is a personal belief or a personal circumstance, even in this direction, as you have indicated, questions of some religious belief, then, as it is said, the school itself is not obliged to provide specific adjustments. Of course, we do not force anyone into some process that is not close to him. What the child sings from his plate is often not only the domain of the environment from which it comes, or the current feeling, but also many times one of his personal beliefs or the situation in which he feels. We have a lot of open themes here. Your question is not only connected with visual conviction, your question is also linked to how to treat food in schools with respect and also by rejecting food as little as possible and in particular rejecting it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr. Jan Mahnic, will you request a further reply? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u98	Thank you. I must say that I have not received a concrete answer unless I overlook what the Minister has said about it, so that we will not adapt where it is not credible and justifiable. I can therefore conclude that, in some way, the minister's response is that adapting the menu to those children who, at the parents' wishes, reject certain food from religious belief that it is not credible and justified. The Minister took advantage of these minutes to say everything from A to Z, as far as school nutrition is concerned, but I asked very correctly and in particular specifically. I would also like to remind you that Mr Porić, the secretary of the Islamic Community at one of the meetings of the Ljubljana City Council, has already threatened saints and other citizens and citizens: “We will remember those who opposed the construction of the mosque.” Now we see what happens to school food. Also interesting when it comes to tolerance, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Council Group Ljubljana also called on the Islamic Community to define themselves to the words of Porić. I think the Ombudsman has been identified, and the Islamic Community is, of course, silent. Therefore, once again, Madam Minister, given that it has also been stated from Weber's lawyer that it is necessary to point out that legislation does not provide a specific legal basis so that the school should only, on the basis of a written certificate from a paediatric child or specialist containing a request for a child's food or food to be banned or restricted, allow such food for the child. So: What will be your instructions to the schools, and how will you handle this? Since I'm not opening up a new topic, some schools tell me how Albanian children, for example, also have translations in schools and so on, which is obviously bad for some integration: How will you act to avoid these pressures on administrators and teachers and to ensure that all children are treated equally?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Dr. Maja Makovec Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u100	I repeat, you also quoted the sentence that followed on the basis of which I will repeat: “The school must adequately adapt the composition of the meal to those students and students who need such adjustment for health reasons and the rest of the meals should be adjusted according to their options.” These are instructions that we have not changed, we have not changed them, we are only strengthening the quality of our diet, to which we have all committed ourselves. In fact, you took your question from the medical certificate, if I understood correctly. By no means and never at the MIŠŠ do we oppose what doctors think, this is of course their dominant domain and we do not interfere with it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Škoberne will ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Zdravek Počvalšk, who is absent, and I ask you to define yourself to the way you reply. Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I estimate that a written reply will also be sufficient. After almost a year of discussion, preparation and reflection on 26 January, we presented to all coalition parties, as well as to the public the proposal for a labour buy-out law. The law is essentially aimed at starting a reform of the management logic and the functioning of the Slovenian economy in a way that increases the involvement of employees not only in decision-making but also in ownership. Why? Because, especially at the time of the crisis, it turned out that companies that were managed and based on economic democracy, for example, managed to survive the crisis with less or without forgiveness, that at the time the economic growth resumed, they jumped away faster than others, that they now have higher profits and, above all, that they have a positive impact on the environment, their employees and their entire life space than, I say, the classic capitalist management of the company. An agreement at the level of the coalition parties was that the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, in inter-departmental coordination, would mediate this law, which Mr Dragonja, then State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, assessed as one of the key anti-crisis measures. Now, a few more than a year later, because we are slowly at the end of the term of this meeting, I wonder: Where is the labour buy-out law in interdepartmental coordination? When's he gonna be in? And if there are reservations: What are the reservations that this has never happened before? One of the key promises of this coalition government at the outset was the creation of conditions for the functioning of economic democracy, an integrated overhaul of management logic and a step forward towards the involvement of employees in governance, profit sharing and, above all, the generation of new added value. I will therefore be grateful if the answer of the Minister is “no” and that he will do so in the next reference, but “yes”; the government will introduce the law. Thank you very much, Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u103	Thank you very much. You'll get the answer. Mr Tomaž Lisec will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnificent Nutrition. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u104	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister, colleague and colleague, nice greetings to you all! Personally, I think we have a problem in Slovenia that we are not aware enough of what Europe is offering us, so substantively, especially financially, although we know that we have already entered the second half of the implementation of European policy, which is called 2013-2020. Even when we have been preparing for this European policy in these years, I feel that we have not taken the content seriously enough, even in the field of agriculture. When we adopted certain programmes, we launched at least a small shout and a cry immediately in the National Assembly, particularly at the proposal of the right opposition parliamentary groups, as we are not prepared for European agricultural policy. And then we have problems with different regulations happening to us from today to tomorrow. Dear Minister, I have here fifteen pages of your Department of Public Procurement under the purview of PRP 2014-2020. In view of the fact that certain measures are still at the stage of the acceptance of applications, I am particularly interested in two invitations to tender. First of all, Sub-measure 4.3, Public tender for the operation of forest infrastructure management for 2017. I'm only interested in one thing from this action: Is the invitation to tender terminated because the time limit for accepting applications was 10. 1. 2017? What are the substantive and financial effects of this measure? Because according to my information, certain people who have applied for this invitation have not yet received any response. The second call, which is very up-to-date, is sounding good, for these 20 million called for Sub-measure 6.3, Public tender, Aid for the start-up of activities aimed at the development of small farms. That sounds good, 20 million, European funds and so on. But then we have that everyone can get a maximum of 5,000 euros. We have enormous conditions and criteria: at least 3 heads of large livestock and less than 15 heads of large livestock, at least 3 hectares and less than 6 hectares of comparable agricultural areas, over 50 % of agricultural land must be in the OMD, there must be a business plan for a period of three years, there must be objectives contributing to economic development and so on. In short, typical Slovenian: conditions, criteria, criteria. I have been approached by many farmers who ask, for the first time: Why such conditions, criteria, and criteria? And secondly: Why a maximum of EUR 5,000 per invitation to tender?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mag. Dean Jedhan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u106	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, fellow Ministers! Mr Member, thank you for the question. It is understandable that we think differently about certain things. Slovenia was well prepared for the Rural Development Programme. You are aware that we have been one of the first countries we have ever received, which allows us to make relatively good use of it. From a billion 100 million to this point, we have already approved 433 million decisions, which is 39%, and it has paid 246 million out of the entire programme. Everyone, including foreigners, thinks it's a good thing. As far as the invitations are concerned. We've had 30 calls so far. Since the programme was adopted in 2015, the highest number of calls was in 2016, 10 were already in this year and eight will be in this year. So far, over these investments, 254 thousand have been allocated and up to 105 million have been distributed. Suma sumarum is the investment effort, where the average co-financing rate is around 40%, for about 600 million euros. Commissioner, you asked me specifically, if I understood correctly, about the calls for Forest Infrastructure Investment Support. We've had two so far. The first call was 26. 2. 2016 to 23. 5 and the assets tendered were 3 million and a half; the applications for a million 859 were 228 and the conditions met 151 investors. The following invitation to tender opened 29. 9. 2017, EUR 3 million is available. The invitation to tender shall be open until 10 p.m. 1. It is understandable that there is no other information because the invitation to tender is still open. The call for small farms, which we did this year – I think, for the first time in the history of Slovenia – was made, but it was based on a study we were doing to help Halozam. The measures taken from the then findings were measures to be implemented throughout Slovenia. It has been found that, while we have tenders where all farms can run, there is one group of farms with development potential and, on the other hand, it is particularly at risk. And if such farms fail because they have plant - eaters of animals, there will be protection because there are no other activities there. These are farms that work in areas where farming is difficult. So it was a condition to work in these areas. Second of all, the condition was great. Why this size? Because over 6 hectares of comparable agricultural land, that means 6 hectares of agricultural land, for example, fields, 12 hectares, for example, if we're looking at grass. From here on, farms are significantly easier to obtain other investment calls, and below this limit because there must be some developmental power on these farms. Why is the number of animals? Because years ago there was support where there was a minimal burden. In the end, it happened years ago that they only got the money because they applied and the quantitative production was very, very small. These were the reasons we went into this call. This invitation to tender also allows for something else. Here we have tested the computer system in such a way that data are collected from databases that are accessible to the agency and advisory services, so that there will be minimal administration. The only thing to know, however, is that if farmers invest in certain investments and not only in basic production, they have to keep the accounts in order to take this into account in the case of income. Payments: After the decision is issued, 70 % of this amount will be paid, and then 30 more after a three-year period. So this is not a classic investment call – we are taking these calls all the time for this type of farm – but a single contribution of 20 million to the group of farms that we have estimated to be particularly at risk has development potential and if anything happens to them, there will be an increase in those areas. However, by the way, I have to say this, such an invitation to tender was in line with non-governmental organisations in the field of agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Lisec, will you request a further reply? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u108	Thank you. I will begin by concluding that the call has been concluded with non-governmental organisations. It's been me since, I think 13. 10. When this call went media and substantively out, it turned many of those farmers whom these calls to help small farmers, who were supposed to bring them some positive things, with a lot of questions. First, once again, all Slovenian farmers are not only interested in this invitation to tender, but in many other calls they ask why so many overhangs with conditions, with criteria, with criteria. They have a feeling, at least most of them, including those who have turned me in, that there are always some conditions where you wonder if it makes sense to sign up, there's a lot of people who say I can't sign up anyway because I'm out. Here I am particularly reminding people who are turning to me, coming from the fields of fruit and vegetables and hoping that they too will receive such a call. On the other hand, people who ask whether it makes sense — considering that they are reading — general terms, criteria, obligations of the beneficiary, financial provisions, consideration of applications — ask themselves whether it makes sense to apply for a call for 5,000 euros. Because we know that if someone wants to do something serious, it's some minimum state aid, and on the other hand they have to go through a lot of paperwork, and not least they're wondering if they're ever going to get 5,000 euros. And if they get them or not, given that there has to be a business plan and everything else, they're going to end up with a dot and they're going to have to pay back in three or five years. In short, a lot of farmers hope that there will be fewer and fewer tendering conditions that will make their work difficult, but that the tendering conditions will make their work easier.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, mag. Dean Jedhan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u110	Thank you. Here we must only be aware that public money is not only the public money of Slovenian, but also European taxpayers, because co-financing is 25:75. The invitation itself is so made that when a farmer reaches his counselor, the average counselor will need half an hour. Data are obtained from electronic databases to which it has access and, together with the business plan, the average current estimate is to spend half an hour with the consultant for data entry and electronic transmission. In this invitation to tender, by the way, only electronic broadcasting is possible. That's how everyone I've talked to so far is talking about a lot of simplification. However, I would like to see the final assessment of those who will evaluate this call for proposals. However, the fact is that when it comes to European and Slovenian, i.e. public money, there are conditions and there are also controls, and if what is promised in the application is not fulfilled, money must also be invested. Once again, I would like to say why a very targeted group of farms has been selected this time. Because the most endangered farms and at the same time farms with development potential are farms that work most in steep areas. Secondly, these are farms which nevertheless have sufficient production capacity to have development potential. Thirdly, we are asked why the limit of 0.7 GVZ per hectare, or 0.5 per hectare in organic production, why it is not even lower, while the average burden in Slovenia is much higher. This is because of the experience of seven years ago, for example, when there was a lot of investment and there were too few criteria and it was found that someone who is a farmer and has only a few livestock and a lot of surfaces gets money, an impact – which essentially the rural development programme requires — and that is that in addition to pooling the landscape, to also invest in food production – it is not. And that's why these conditions are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr Daniel Krivec will present the question to the Minister for the Environment and the Space of Mrs Irena Majcen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u112	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to all ministers and ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Dear Minister Irena Majcen, Minister of Environment and Space, I ask about the issue of two regulations, the Water Refund Regulation and the methodology for the pricing of compulsory municipal economic services for environmental protection. Both for a purpose. During the last period, a large number of water pipelines at the municipal level have also been restored in the Republic of Slovenia on the basis of great assistance from European funds, as well as wider ones. The situation in this area has also been clearly improved during the reconstruction of these pipelines, but not in the direction of better quality of drinking water. Why? First of all, as regards the requirements that new projects had to meet. We know that as a result of the fire safety requirements, the section of water pipes has increased significantly on new water lines, and because of new materials and technologies, these water lines are virtually no longer leaking. As a result, the water in these water systems is somehow damaged or poor in the sense that it stands in large quantities because there is insufficient consumption. It is interesting to be approached by local communities, municipalities and individuals and to wonder why it is not possible to take one of the measures which the Water Refund Regulation does not allow. Point to the fact that we have largely water collectors, where the water in these reservoirs flows before the transfer to the collector itself and before it reaches the site of the measuring device, which actually detects the drained water before it reaches the secondary divorce below. A lot of this water flows from this first measuring point. I therefore ask the Minister about this regulation: Is it possible to change the matter in such a way that at the end of the water supply there is an outflow pipe that would have a measuring point, and this would be calculated with this measuring point immediately after the normal water supply, of course, when the water is sufficient? This would ensure the flow of water in these new water systems and thus improve the quality of water. I have to say, we've talked about this a lot with municipal companies. They say that this is technically feasible, but they have problems because neither the law nor the regulation permits it. That's why I'm asking: Is this feasible, all in favor of improvement?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Irene Maycen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u114	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Member, Mr Daniel Krivec, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The question I have been asked is part of a large part of the Ministry of Environment and Space. It is true that it is only a question of calculating the cost of drinking water supply; it is also true that our ministry cares for a number of public services. We also have basic elements for the calculation of the price of waste water, the costs involved and the collection and disposal or processing of waste. We have also referred to a regulation or a recast or an amendment to the Regulation on the methodology for the pricing of compulsory municipal economic services for environmental protection; indeed, there are several reviews at the Ministry of Accounting this year, including on this subject where the results or all the checks have not yet been completed. However, in some ways it appears, at least in its work with the Court of Auditors so far, that it is noted that the regulation is an act which should be transposed to a higher level, i.e. to the law itself, which regulates the issue of methodology and the pricing of compulsory public economic services for environmental protection. If I say now that we have had quite a few meetings in these amendments to the regulation, including with representatives of municipal companies, it is true that, at least as far as I am concerned, that certain municipal companies are more than the subject that you, respected Mr Daniel Krivec, have pointed out to me, in some ways, that the costs incurred by water protection areas, or the costs of reducing the burden on water protection areas, would be borne by the Ministry. The review itself or this methodology, which allows for the identification of some procedural improvements, is still possible to look at. However, I think it is essential that we also receive this proposal in writing to the Ministry; and if necessary, we also meet with representatives who have formed it. My own tendency is to provide drinking water as one of the basic tasks of the congregations. At least in Slovenia they perform this task mostly through municipal companies, or in some cases they have also been awarded this concession to companies, and in recent times this has also been put out by municipalities themselves, either through directors or municipal companies. The fact is that it is essential to invest in this drinking water supply network that there has been relatively little investment in the past. However, with the possibilities that municipalities have acquired for the acquisition of cohesion funds, there is considerable investment in infrastructure that enables adequate, even better supply of drinking water. In any case, it is necessary to find opportunities that will also be acceptable to citizens, to the citizens for whom this provision is provided, and not to cause excessive prices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr. Daniel Krivec, will you request a further reply? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u116	Thank you very much. I thank the Minister for the first part of her reply and her willingness to complete or correct matters. As I said, we are talking about the Water Refunds Regulation, where in Article 3 previously there was a talk about lost water as a loss, but this was defined only for a transitional period, and later this is no longer the case. My question was based on the experience and the citizens who are turning to me in this direction, in order to improve the quality of water supply in these new underwater systems, since there is no loss of revenue from the Ministry, it is the water that is being spilled on the water. You could pour yourself on some counter counter at the end of the plumbing. This would refresh the water and satisfy the citizens. There are not so few of these cases, and from this point of view it would be appropriate to consider this. But you continued with the question that I intend to extend. This is a methodology for the pricing of compulsory municipal economic services, where the depreciation rate is also prescribed for these new systems. It also prescribes a condition of exploitation, the capacity of this infrastructure. I want to know: Does the Ministry also consider correcting these depreciation rates? For a periphery where the density is relatively low, these depreciation rates are still very high due to Annex 1, which is a public utility obligation. And also this level of exploitation is very highly prescribed, especially for those areas where there are relatively few users per kilometer of water or sewerage. I'm asking you: Are you thinking about correcting these regulations?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Minister Irene Maycen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u118	Thanks for the extra question. I continue in my interpretation where it has been shown in the past, so the prices of public municipal care for citizens have been determined, have been frozen and financial resources to ensure the restoration of existing infrastructure, not only to invest in new technical improvements, have at that time been lacking. [[…]] Cohesion funds have improved infrastructure supply in many parts in Slovenia; not in full in any way. These projects are still under way. Reducing the depreciation period under the real depreciation period means that once these facilities, this infrastructure reach its age, there will be no financial resources to rebuild them. What then, with the necessary renovations? It is true that the congregations already have a choice in some way. Part of this depreciation rate can also be subsidised by municipalities, but it is true that there is another need for improvement in practically every municipality; and this infrastructure improvement must also be implemented. The depreciation period is adapted to the quality of the material, which is built in, if spoken in plumbing, in all the infrastructure that serves the pipeline. It is true that these are not pipes, which can often be water or technical options to improve or prevent pollution, or water that needs to be prepared to ensure that consumers do not have a problem drinking this water. As I mentioned earlier, after all the Court of Auditors checks, there is likely to be something left to open, while the depreciation itself, according to my conduct, was not the subject of discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Dr. Jasna Murgel will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Dr. Anji Kopač Mrak. Since the Minister is absent, please identify yourself in the manner of your response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Chairman. Nice greetings to all present! I will request an oral answer to the question. I'll tell him now, and then at one of the meetings, the Minister will answer orally. My question concerns children with special needs, a narrower group of blind children whose parents have turned to me. Because blind children had the right to receive a child-care allowance under the Parental Protection and Family Benefits Act, and at the same time after the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, they also had an allowance for assistance and service. In 2003, social work centres began to inform the beneficiaries, i.e. the parents of these children, in order not to be entitled to both benefits, so because they trusted the social work centre, they gave up one of these supplements, which is a child care allowance and child protection allowance because they were afraid that they would have to return the allowance. In 2015, one of the parents filed a complaint against the State and succeeded with his claim. After this trial, we found that parents can receive a child - care allowance as well as an allowance to help and serve under both laws. However, there has not been any recovery of these funds in order to return to all beneficiaries who are entitled to this, since recently there has also been a case-law in which the courts have rejected parental requests for the refund of these allowances. They based their conclusions on the fact that parents should complain against the decision that rejected their proposal to grant them this supplement; they did not do so because they simply received instructions from social work centres not to complain. The question that is open is the issue of returning these care and back-up supplements. It is very difficult for parents to take part in some procedures and fight for these back-up supplements, and in some cases it is also 30 000 euros. I ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities: What are you gonna do to make this thing go backwards? Therefore, payment of these supplements to blind children back so that they do not have to be involved in certain procedures and that the State will take care of them instead. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Žnidar will ask the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petr Gasperšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I would like to ask you a question about the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Transport Safety regarding the operation and operation of this public agency. It was very interesting at the last meeting of the parent infrastructure committee, where we discussed the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Drivers Act, where it was solely the purpose of the allocation of costs in the conduct of the driving examination for the theoretical part and the practical part that these funds did not go through the budget of the Republic of Slovenia to the public agency, but to determine that purpose and that these funds collected in the conduct of the driving examinations were directly to the agency. The Secretary of State has provided some very interesting information, but also very lacking information. The basic lack of information is how many of these funds are collected annually, how many of these funds are collected; on the other hand, it has provided information that the Agency has a deficit of between EUR 700 000 and EUR 900 000 this year. This is the information provided by the Secretary of State and, as a result, this intention to spend resources is also determined by amending the draft law; although the price of theoretical and practical work is envisaged. In particular, information is provided, the theoretical part is supposed to be 24 euros, a practical part of 33. It is also interesting to operate the agency itself. The Agency shall have in its annual plan 5 million 400 planned financial operations. However, 300 000 euros are earmarked for prevention. This was the initial information of the Secretary of State, and later he fixed it to somewhere between 300,000 and 500,000, but not to know exactly. Of course, then it is a very interesting question, because it is a public agency, it is actually financed from the budget, we have now provided an entire financial source of resources that we do not know how much it is; and in fact, it devotes 7% to road safety and prevention, for which it is essentially intended. Then it's questionable how such an agency works because we see it actually consumes 93% for its own. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Minister Peter Gaspersich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u124	Thank you, President, for your word. Thank you, too, Member of Parliament, Mr Ljub Žnidar, for the question raised. In fact, in the legislative procedure in the National Assembly there is an amendment to the Drivers Act, which provides for the purpose of collecting funds for the conduct of driving examinations. This intention is agreed and coordinated with the Ministry of Finance, but it is that so far the funds collected by the candidates for the examination have not been earmarked. They collected in excess of the costs incurred by the Agency in carrying out the examinations. Therefore, this amendment has been made so that these resources collected for the conduct of the examinations are collected on purpose and fully cover the costs incurred by the Agency in carrying out the examinations. It is the fact that so far, by the budget and by other resources to be allocated by the Agency, these funds have been channelled to cover this too little amount collected to carry out the examinations. If we just look at this test jacket, it's about €2 million a year, and about €400,000 a year. From this title, this tariff for access to the theoretical and practical examination should be increased and it should be determined with a view to being self-sufficient, if we so call it. The budget shall then allocate resources for other activities, prevention, maintenance of other driver and vehicle records, other activities in the field of road safety development and coordination, as well as other general matters to be carried out by the Agency, material costs and so on. The Agency's total budget is about 5 million a year, as stated, 2 million are exams and 3 million will be provided after the new budget. The bulk of this will be a preventive activity. In the last few years, due to this transition, there has been very little prevention, I have data here, for example in 2011, 2 million euro was allocated for prevention, in 2012 – 500 thousand, in 2013 even only 280 thousand, then again in 2014 a slight increase to 340, in 2015 – 390 and in 2016 we came back to the number over a million. But the goal is to allocate between €1 million and €2 million for prevention. And this will be possible once the driver's examinations and the costs associated with them are self-sustained and determined by the purpose of the funds collected. I hope that this has answered your questions, how, for what purposes, and how much resources are allocated for the various activities of the Agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u125	Thank you very much. You have a request to complete your response, Mr. Žnidar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, between the value of the prevention given by the Secretary of State and your information, there is a threefold difference. Here, too, you can see how ready the Secretary of State is to come to the Home Committee. Nevertheless, the bulk of all funds will now go on purpose from these revenues in the conduct of driving examinations by this law when it is adopted; and the second part, where the main part of the budget itself is. The entire agency, because it is also not only defined for the part concerning the conduct of driving examinations, but is employed at this agency by over 100 employees. And if we look at it, out of EUR 5 million, 400 thousand, we're actually going to give for the prevention million, and we're actually going to give you the sum of what is, a million 800 of the driver's exams, that's saying we have 3 million 800. In fact, at the core of the public agency’s task, there is still over 2 million differences that are not intended for the basic purpose of prevention and road safety. In this relationship, too much is spent on wages or it is difficult to justify the total number of employees and there are obvious differences. This is about rationality in the functioning of this public agency, which has a 100% guaranteed consumption [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Dr. Peter Gaspersich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u128	Thank you very much. The agency employs 100 employees, 59 of whom work in the field of driving examinations. This cost, which I mentioned, for driving examinations takes about 2 million a year, includes the salaries of employees and the material costs of conducting examinations, updating test materials, operating exam centres themselves, equipping test sites. In short, here are the salaries and the material costs. In the other part, if we say we're not going to be exact right now, but about 5 million is an annual budget, and 3 million are going to be a major part of prevention. Our goal is to spend between a million and a half million in the following year. This year, we were still at the number one million three hundred thousand. In addition to prevention, there are, as I said, driver registration systems, vehicle registration bases and general activities themselves, material costs with the building itself and, of course, with the rest of the employees. I hope that this is clear enough in the grave, but we can prepare a precise cut in the balance sheet and the Agency's budgets to be transparent, precisely how much the material costs for employees, for buildings, for investments, if we want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u129	We continue with the question of the Magi. Branislav Rajic to the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Petr Gasperšić. Mr. Rajic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u130	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Secretary! In larger cities, especially in Ljubljana, thousands of people are taken to work every day, to school, to medical examinations. Most use motorways for daily migration. It is evident that traffic on highways has recently become very dense, especially in the morning’s peaks. For example, the journey to Ljubljana from the hour and twenty minutes extended to almost two hours. This is how drivers on all sections of the highway are faced with greater traffic density, especially those using the Styrian and Coastal Highways. But because of the incredibly large number of trucks on the highway on individual sections that completely occupy the lane, passenger traffic takes place exclusively in the lane, which is why there is also a problem with the mutual overtaking of trucks. And this mutual overcoming of trucks is making the traffic of passenger cars worse and slowing down, with a significant increase in the risk of a traffic accident. The idea is that until the third lane is built, it is imperative to introduce a measure banning the overtaking of trucks, but by ensuring that the checks are carried out in a consistent manner and that sanctions are carried out on the motorway at the time of the traffic spikes. This practice is not unknown in the modern world, it has also been in force with us for some time, but has died as a result of inconsistent sanctions. At a time when technology has progressed almost to the border of flirting with Orwell’s big brother and when passenger cars drivers are visible, perceived and punished without having to do so electronically, it seems that a similar video control and punishment of each other’s overcoming trucks would be feasible. This would create more durable driving conditions and more safety on motorways. My question is: Do you think about measures at the Ministry that would lead to better conditions for its implementation by slow, frequent and dangerous road traffic? What measures do you see as the most promising? Since there has already been one question that you have answered in part, even when it comes to my question, I would also like to remind you and remind you that the Mariborians are still waiting for the Ministry's decree to abolish the wine regime on the fast road through Maribor from Pobreje to Melja. I am asking you for a concrete response to the abolition of mandatory vignettes in this section, which would significantly reduce traffic jams in Maribor. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u131	Minister Peter Gasperšič, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u132	Thank you, President, for your word. Thank you, Mr Rajić, for asking the question. Indeed, I have already had a similar question today on the issue of heavy traffic on motorways, particularly in connection with the overtaking of freight vehicles. Transport density has become very problematic and obvious in the last few years after Slovenia has clearly come out of the economic crisis and we are facing economic growth. As a result, freight and passenger traffic increased greatly. Especially in the mornings, as well as in the afternoons, it is virtually impossible to drive on the highway as it is also often occupied by freight vehicles that are overtaken by a column of trucks on the lane. That is why at the ministry, in cooperation with Darsa as the manager, we are dealing with addressing this issue; we have registered short-, medium- and long-term measures here. The short-term are those that are most feasible, but their effect is more modest. Here, in particular, I am referring to the limitation of the speed in front of the cities where density occurs, in order to reduce the impact of vehicles arriving at these problematic locations. The second measure, however, is the prohibition of overtaking, again in the sections where this traffic is most frequent. We already have a restraining order, which Dars and I carried out this year, on the bypass, on the Ljubljana ring and on certain sections of the Stairway, where these bans of overcoming are time-limited. We are now negotiating to extend these prohibitions to the whole bright part of the day when traffic is the most frequent. In this way, they would also, including tighter controls, ensure that the traffic of cargo vehicles concentrates on the lane, while passenger traffic may take place more liquidly along the lane. We are also planning and counting on this measure to be implemented as soon as possible, but, of course, appropriate controls should also be provided so as to have an appropriate effect. For medium-term measures, I can mention that Darss is already planning them. This is in particular the processing and the possibility of using lanes for implementation, as a third lane, again at the time of the largest peaks. Such a measure shall also apply abroad. To this end, the withdrawal belts should be slightly extended and the load capacity increased, i.e. reinforced. Thus, construction measures and certain information portals are needed to release traffic at the ends, otherwise it will be dedicated to its basic function as a buffer zone. The most effective and long-term measure, however, is the implementation of the third belts, which are also planned. It is the longest and already ready and will also go to build a third lane or six-passenger on the western Ljubljana bypass, which is the most burdened section on the Slovenian motorway network. Similar measures are also planned for the construction of third belts throughout the ring and on all these key ramps, from Domžal to Ljubljana, from Grosuplja to Ljubljana, Vrhnika and Kranja to Ljubljana. This will, of course, be a long-term measure. With regard to vineyards, with regard to the fast road H2 through Maribor, I can say that the application submitted by the Maribor Municipality was forwarded to Dars, who, as an operator, is competent to determine whether the conditions of the law and the regulation on this are met. I would point out that it is not a toll stop, but this regulation measure allows for the diversion of innocent traffic to a vignette road and the use of this road without the necessary [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u133	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mag. Branislav Rajić, you have the floor to request an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Obviously where there is will, there's a way. You have found another mode of operation that this vignette regime is somehow disabled or terminated in this part. Thanks for that. I hope it's quick. When it comes to controlling the interception of trucks, it was my wish to hear in response to this question that the Ministry and Dars will undertake these control and sanctioning measures in the same jumpy and quick way as you do when it comes to controlling the speed of drivers of passenger cars. If you move so fast and settle the matter within a few months, we expect this and we want to make sure that we respond equally quickly in freight traffic. Do you have anything else to say in this sense, more specifically – sanctions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u135	Minister Gaszperšič, anything else you want to add? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u136	Thank you very much. This is certainly our goal to ensure that measures to limit the overtaking that will be introduced will also be effectively respected. Here, in cooperation with the police and the Ministry of the Interior, we will also provide the necessary and appropriate supervision. To finish what I wanted to say about the vignette regime on the H2 fast road through Maribor. Here we have a situation where an eastern bypass was built, that we have two toll roads, which is in itself quite illogical or reckless. Therefore, the transfer of this fast road H2 to the management of the Republic of Slovenia Infrastructure Directorate is also envisaged for a long period. However, these transfer matters need to be properly negotiated with Darsa and then carried out in an appropriate manner. We know that this transfer cannot be unpaid. This is what we want to do in the long run; and in this way this road will no longer be toll-free at all, it will be in the management of the Directorate as will the other state roads managed by the Directorate. This will be the measure we want to take in the long run. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u137	Dr. Ange Logar will address the question to Minister Anton Persak. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u138	Thank you, Chairman. I must admit that it is a tragedy to watch Minister Persak break through one of the more successful public institutions, this is the Slovenian Philharmonic. It must be said that this is one of the few institutions in its field that has had business income or profit from its operations in the past year, and it is therefore quite amazing how the Minister personally got himself into these factions, which were created for these and other reasons. It should be noted that the Minister has listened in every way to one of the unions covering the employees of this public institution and has changed the statutes of this institution; he has also replaced the council of this institution. As we know, he went one step further. This institution then proposed the discharge of the Director and the Minister welcomed this objective, which he has apparently called out in this public institution since the beginning of the dispute with the Director. It must be acknowledged that it is obviously not important for the minister how successful the director of the public office is, but what kind of party book he has. In some ways, this is understandable if we know that it is a minister who has been willing to join one of the parties to the government coalition. But this does not bind him to his actions as a minister of government over individual public institutions. In this respect, I ask you: What do you intend to do about the world of the institution, which acts contrary to public interest and is clearly contrary to the protection of public finances or public funds? Why did you choose not to protect public interest and public funds, but in some way submitted to the demands of a union struggle in one of the public institutions and thus opened Pandora's box of similar requirements in other public institutions? Why did you decide to discharge the Director nine months before the end of your term of office at the request of the staff? What do you intend to do now that the Administrative Court has annulled or suspended the Minister's decision? Are there going to be any consequences for the world of the institution based on this? Will you, in the event that the court then decides that this discharge was illegal, resign as minister? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u139	Mr Anton Peršak, Minister for Culture, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u140	If I answer the first question of honourable Mr Logar, what I intend to do about the world that is supposed to work contrary to the public interest. If this were to prove true, I would, as with the previous session of the Council or at least talk to the President several times about the situation in the Slovenian Philharmonic, also talk to the Council. And if it turned out that what the Member of Parliament said would be true, it would also be an appropriate response. Why did I submit to the demands of the union? I must now say that I have not complied with the requirements and that this has also been made clear to them that employees under the law and the founding act do not have the opportunity to request and that someone would have complied with them on the basis of their request to dismiss the Director. I decided to dismiss or dismiss the Director after a thorough consideration when we reviewed the Director's business and management. We have identified a very comprehensive list of violations of individual provisions of the laws governing the operation of public institutions resulting from the Public Finance Act. This is the reason for the dismissal, not the demands of employees. Of course, this should also take account of the fact that disagreements between employees and the Director have lasted for several years, even in one of the Director's previous mandates. Unfortunately, the ministers so far did not see this or did not see it as such important. With regard to the question of temporary detention by the Administrative Court, I must say that there are no signs so far that the Administrative Court repeals the decision on discharge. In its decision, the Administrative Court merely held on a proposal from the complainant, says Mr Director, that the decision not to go into the next steps on the basis of discharge would be a public tender; and that if they had decided that the reasons for the resolution were not sufficiently valid, there would have been a challenge to settle matters definitively. However, I must say that the decision of the Administrative Court, at the very least, is odd, because the Administrative Court claims that it has taken into account the proposal of the proposer to suspend the discharge because he did not receive the Ministry's reply, which, of course, he does not. We have confirmed that this response has been submitted in due time to the Administrative Court on the third day of the deadline. The question for me is how the court ruled because it had an answer from the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u141	Dr. Ange Logar, you have the floor to request a complete response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u142	Thank you. The Minister has in no way answered any of my questions. In fact, he took his own responsibility because he said, “We have decided, after careful consideration”. If you consider this to be a valid reflection on the basis of those points adopted by the Institute’s Council, then this is a very difficult decision, because you know that most of those indents do not have any basis in the normative basis or in the experience of the past, let’s say that the renovation of the apartment, or that the world has not adopted a position or given a certificate of the surrender of the apartment and so on. That's all there is in the vine to get rid of someone. Your act is to replace the institution's world and appoint three people to this world who are in conflict of interest. One person who would like to apply for a post of Director, one who was an anti-candidate and one who has already wanted to discharge the same director of the institution in one of the previous compositions of the Council. Next, please identify yourself: How do you feel that the president of the board of public institutions you set up is protesting in front of your ministry and talking to the megaphone about why it is necessary to get rid of the director of the public institution that you, after all, have put in place or put in place by the Ministry of Culture through the institution's world? Please identify yourself to this act. What will you do if the court finally decides that this discharge was illegal? Will you step down or will you wash your hands simply by releasing a public institution that you have set up yourself? I expect very specific questions and very specific answers, Mr Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u143	Minister Anton Peršak, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u144	Once again, I must reiterate that the resolution has not taken place on the basis of a requirement, as you say, of the unions, now you are telling the Council; but on the basis of the findings arising from the Director's review of operations and management. Among other things, it is an exclusive violation of the Public Finance Act, which directs public institutions operating with as much funds as the Slovenian Philharmonic, to annual internal audit. No internal audit in the Slovenian Philharmonic has been carried out since 2012. And such cases are quite something where certain actions that should have been left behind when the Director, instead of two assistant directors, had three assistants, although the founding decision explicitly speaks of having only two. As far as the President of the Council is concerned, this is her decision. I don't care what she does in or whether she joins the employees, supports them or not; but whether the world works in the way the founding act and the law commands it or not. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u145	Dr. Ange Logar, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u146	Thank you. Mr Minister managed to recall two fundamental, thorough reasons why the Director had to be dismissed. One is that there have been no audits since 2012; the other is that there are three assistants instead of two. Check public institutions all over Slovenia, some have also rented loans without permission from the institution; but you are not so strict about everyone. But when it comes to someone who is the president of the world and yells at you in the megaphone, in your ears that you have to suspend the director of this institution, it's his private decision to do so. And you've set up a world of institutions that, for the first time since 2000, expects him to get a meeting for his sessions, maybe even for some protest paid for the meetings, even though everyone has been volunteering so far. Mr. Minister, you don't think there have been any audits. Your Ministry, Labour Inspectorate, the Court of Auditors, all those who can, have reviewed this public institution and none of them, nor the labour inspectorate nor any other, have found any infringements justifying the discharge of the Director. And because none of these institutions have found out, you've just decided what you've decided. You have replaced the board of the institution, which has not convened any reconciliation meeting between the director and the staff within 7 months of the world being in this composition. Can you imagine?Oh, my God! And you trust a world that is protesting in front of your door, not the results of the inspections you ordered – I don't know if you ordered them or your subordinates ordered them, but someone did – and they did the inspection, and they didn't find any significant violations in this public office. You have not even answered me whether you will resign in the event that the court finds that this discharge was illegal; or whether you will act against the world of the institution that clearly acted against public interest and public funds. I therefore propose that we discuss this in the National Assembly, where the Minister will have enough time to explain it; and where he will be able to review more thoroughly the documents that are due to his decisions, but according to the instructions or decree of a union that has a strong influence in Slovenian public institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u147	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 16 November, in the framework of the votes. We continue with Mr Primož Hainz's question, addressed to the Minister of Finance of Mags. Matthew the Vranic Erman. Mr. Hainz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u148	Thank you so much for the floor, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, I'm primarily referring to mag. Matejo Vraničnik Erman; colleagues and colleagues! Slovenian athletes produce extremely beautiful and great results, as we all see, not only do we, but we also have very remarkable results in relation to the number of inhabitants; but funding does not follow these trends. Let me just say that Slovenian sport is financed through the budget and through the Sports Foundation and from the Slovenian Sports Lottery. In addition to the budget, colleague Peter Wilfan has already made a request or a proposal to the government, and I ask about the Sports Lottery or the Sports Foundation what is going on. The fact is, there's a steady decline in funds. It is known that, in recent times, the number of people who play sports bets has been increasing and the resources for sports are falling. There is something wrong with us with this sports lottery or some kind of sport lottery monopoly. I'm only asking because I don't know this building enough. I'm asking you: Would it not be better if in some way, by law or concessions, I covered all sports games in Slovenia and thereby increased the means of sport? In particular, I must say that disability organisations are also financed from these funds, so it is not just sports organisations. It’s just that in some way, I have a feeling, some resources are leaking; it’s probably not best for sports or disability organisations. How could this be arranged so that there would not be such a leak if I could say so? Thank you very much for your answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u149	Madam Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u150	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Mr Member, thank you for asking. The fact is that different aspects of sport are financed from the budget and from other sources. I will focus only on the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia, which is largely funded by the Sports Lottery, with concession fees for the adaptation of gambling. However, the concession fees paid by the Sports Lottery represent only half of the income of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations. Approximately 52% of the concession fee is also received by the FŠO from the Lottery of Slovenia, and the organizers of special gambling also contribute to it, namely casinos and gaming salons. However, the amount of the concession fee for these special games of chance is relatively much lower than the concession fee for classical gambling, which makes these revenues relatively lower. And you are right to note that revenue from concession fees for the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the past has been declining. If we compare how concession fees have been moving since 2012, we can see that concession benefits from classical gambling and also from special gambling in 2013 and 2014 have fallen in relation to 2012; and in 2015 and 2016 they have started to grow gradually; or for 2016, they would say that they are dying somewhere at the 2015 level. Data for this year are not yet available because only the advances are currently being paid; final data comparable to those of the past will only be known at the end of the first trimester of the following year. The second part of your question concerns the reasons why these concession fees are to fall. Since concession fees have fallen from classical gambling in the past, and also from special gambling, it is difficult to say that the reason for lowering revenues in changing the taxation of classical gambling is difficult. In early 2013, taxes on tickets or lottery tickets began to be paid if you want another term. The third part of the question concerns the issue of monopolistic regulation and the capture of online gambling. Taking over online gambling, I must admit, is a weakness in Slovenian legislation that we have sought to eliminate at the Ministry; but unfortunately we have not received adequate support for our proposals. However, covering online gambling with appropriate legislation is a completely different issue than the issue of monopoly, as is currently the case in the Republic of Slovenia. We can see that by regulating online gambling, we could attract or gain revenue from this type of gambling arrangement, if we would, of course, allow these games to be organized by different operators. However, if we are talking about eliminating the monopoly in general, our calculations or estimates show that the revenues that could then be earmarked for financing sports organisations would be further reduced; our estimates show that up to 60%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u151	Mr. Primoz Hainz, you will not ask any further questions. I ask you only for a flight change, because it is my turn to ask the question of the two ministers. I'm afraid that's not the way it works. Thank you so much for your help.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u152	Mr Matjaž Germany will raise the question to the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Peter Gasperšić, and to the Minister of Public Administration, Mr Boris Koprivnikar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u153	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I see the Minister is on his way. I will begin with the first part of my question addressed to Minister Gasperšić; I will also ask the Minister of Public Administration for an answer. Mr Gasperšič, three years have passed since we first started to talk about the problem and the necessary restoration of the fast road H4 from Podnanos to the border crossing of Wrote. The road is well completed, it has never been fully restored. In a small part, we have managed to complete the reconstruction work. I'm not going to discuss the work myself when we're driving down this fast road, and we don't separate the new work from the old work anymore. My question is not about this; my question is primarily about what we have already discussed in the past – the continuation of the reconstruction from the direction of Ajdovščina towards the border crossing of Vrtojbe. Work is supposed to take place this fall or next spring, that's one part. The second part is promised and necessary, first the test barriers of anti-aircraft protection and then the construction of these. Mr. Minister, we are getting different information, so I would ask you to provide comprehensive information so that the public will also be informed: When will the beginning of the work in the first phase and further to the border crossing of the Wrote? When will the construction of three test fields in the H6 or H4 rapid road area begin? Thank you, Minister, for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Dr. Peter Gaspersich, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u155	Thank you, President, for your word. Thank you, too, honourable Member, Mr Matjaž Germany, for the question raised. It is true that we have already discussed this Vipava fast road several times and finally there have been certain movements, because after just a decade, I think that this road was once again re-established in the first section, namely the reconstruction at the section on one part of the Ajdovščina-Selo and then onward from Sela to Vogreska, including the connection to the village. This was the restoration of a 9.5 - mile - long [9.5 km] roadway that was carried out this year. These renovations will continue to be carried out in this month, with a contract signed for the renovation of the section at a total length of 15.5 km of roadways, a section from Vipava to Ajdovščina and a second section from Ajdovščina to Sela, including the accession of Ajdovščina. These parts are expected to start as soon as the weather conditions allow, it is said somewhere in March 2018. In preparation, the project documentation for the execution of the design contract is still in the next section of 7.5 km from Vogrskog to Šempetr, which will also break down the Bazara toll station and reconstruct the entire route of the motorway in the area of this toll station. Thus, in about three years, a total of 32 kilometers and a half of the roadways, or 16 miles [16 km] of fast road, will be restored. With regard to the border crossing itself, the removal of those houses and vehicles was carried out, while the salaries and arrangements of the border crossing under the responsibility of the Ministry of Public Administration, which I think also will have made certain investments, but this is independent of what is being done in the driver's seat. And now for anti-aircraft protection. This project has really been moving for quite some time, and I regret to say today that this year's work will not start, but the call will be published, and if there are no complications on the call for proposals, the work will start in the middle of 2018, so that the necessary measurements can already be carried out in autumn 2018. The measurements will be carried out using specific wind speed measurement systems to determine the wind protection performance for real vehicles, namely trucks, which will have to be measured at between 3 and 5 storm events. There will be, I think, three test sections and then it is envisaged that, if the efficiency is confirmed, these sections will remain as they are, and then, in the rest of the rest, this protection will be carried out. In short, in the following summer the measurement shall be carried out and the autumn 2018 shall also begin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Will you request a supplement to the answer? Mr Matjaž German, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u157	Thank you very much. This will be addressed to the Minister of Public Administration, Mr Koprivnikar, in the main part. I expect a written response from the Ministry as soon as possible. However, I will use Minister Gaspersic for one more question. You mentioned a solution, or restoration, to Champetra, and in this regard I am interested: Does this also include part of the border crossing of the Spindle or not? But if I continued with my question, I would address the following question to Minister Koprivnik. Two years ago, I drew attention to the unsustainable situation at all border crossings in Slovenia. I want to know: Is there a strategy here, anything to do with them? In particular, at the Vrtojb border crossing, as far as is known, all spatial plans have been in place since 2013 and 2014. This is a practical, perspective area which is currently degraded. We are talking mainly about an area that is extremely promising and attractive for the development of any economic sector. I am particularly interested in Mr Koprivnik's response: What's your intention with regard to the Vertigo border crossing? At times, it has been said that to remove the roof, it takes 200 000 euros, what about it, and what about other border crossings? On the Italian side, the highway has been modelly rebuilt and it is practically an impression that the European Union is ending with a border crossing, because in the last ten years we have been leaving this exceptional area to collapse, which could in particular be very economically active. I am talking about a region that has been hit hard by the crisis itself, and the levers of the state are to ensure, as far as possible, the conditions for further development. Mr. Gaspersich, the question is: Is this meant from Champetra to the Vertigo border crossing or not? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Dr. Peter Gaspersich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u159	Thank you very much. I'm afraid I won't be able to answer you correctly here. I have a mileage, short of stationing the road on the section from Vogrski to Šempetr, ranging from 0.765 to 4.5 kilometers. Whether the road to the Vertajb border crossing is included in this mileage, I could not answer now, but we will provide you with the answer to this question in writing, if that is acceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Breznik will ask the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Peter Gasperšić.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Today I have two questions for Minister Gaszperšič. I think the first problem is TES 6. Dear Minister, let me tell you that, in the previous term, when we were dealing to a large extent with the completion of the TES 6 project, which I have had my full opinion on, I have drawn attention to the issue which, we can say, has been observed and addressed in the Federal Republic of Germany. Let me say that, above all, in the Datteln 4 thermal power plant and in Duisburg, experts have detected major problems with boiler cracks and certain parts of the thermal power plant, which are extremely exposed to high pressure and high heat. Finally, they found, we could say, great problems and practices with the so-called miracle steel T24. This was steel, which was the basis at all, that we could build thermal power plants on some new basis of the thermoelectric power plant, where coal burns under high pressure and with extremely high temperatures. In the case of the Datteln 4 thermal power plant in Germany there was a problem with a temperature above 700 degrees. What I want to say and what I'm asking you is because we've been dealing with TES 6 and the investigation committee has been dealing with the very fact that politics has no control over the project. With this question I wish to encourage you, I hope. I believe that you are not familiar, even in public, in Slovenian newspapers I have never seen this problem mentioned at all. I have researched, I have also consulted with my former colleagues at Siemens, who are mainly involved in energy, and the T24 miracle steel is currently a major problem. Not only in Germany, but also in other thermal power plants. It is studied, it is a rather new special alloy of so-called steel, which has a commercial code T24, behind which is an extremely long formula. I'm asking you: Are you familiar with all the malfunctions that occur during the TEM 6 operation, so far, we have had three stoppages? Is your ministry and expertise under special supervision at the HSE in order to resolve this problem? Did they also detect a problem with T24 steel? Is T24 also installed in boilers at TES 6, and if so, will you start to exercise the full control and enforcement of the guarantees and guarantees you have as a country? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u162	Minister Peter Gasperšič, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u163	Thank you so much for saying that. Your question, which I have received, has unfortunately been raised very generally, but here you have very concretely and detailed what you are really interested in. The question is highly professional. Although I also have prepared a fairly professional response to the problem of the last stop. I can say that I am aware of this issue, but I am not operationally involved in the resolution, so I will be able to give you some answers, I will be able to give you some information, but I will obviously have to get some things and then, if you agree to do so, I will also provide them to you in writing. With regard to the last stop that took place on 27 October, I can say that since Wednesday 8 November the thermoelectric power plant has been operating uninterruptedly. The purpose of this planned block 6 stop was to check the condition of the warranty repair on the reheating collector number 2. This showed that additional cracks had to be repaired. Non-conformity checks were performed, 150 mm long crack was found, which was then welded according to prescribed welding procedures. After recovery, non-conformity checks were carried out, which subsequently confirmed the appropriateness of the repair of this collector. The analysis of the cause is already under way, but it takes a little longer for its complexity. During the planned halt of the sixth block in cooperation with the equipment suppliers, the company Šostanj also corrected several minor errors that occurred in the warranty period. Regular maintenance works were also carried out on the devices, for which the block must be in cooled condition, i.e. stopped. The largest part was the replacement of one plane of the catalyst to reduce emissions of nitrogen oxides. Additional safety measures have also been put in place in the area of the collector due to the situation. We expect that due to the analysis of the cause of the cracks and the final solution, which will then be acceptable to the TES, this is the replacement of the collector during the regular renovation next year, there will be another stop to verify the condition of the warranty repair. In short, the control and control of the exercise or the exercise of the guarantee conditions themselves is ongoing, but it is expected that further control of the status of this collector will have to be carried out in accordance with these requirements. So much so far as I'm concerned, if there's any further details I'd like to provide you with, then I'd like to provide them in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u164	Mr. Franz Breznik, you have the floor to request an explanation of the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u165	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Also, according to my information, there have been constant problems with the overheater, and they have been experiencing these serious problems for a long time at TER 6. You were talking about a crack, of course we don't have any data on whether this steel was used in this crack or if it was one vital part where high temperatures and pressure occur. It should be noted, however, that also stopping TES 6 costs, the opportunities costs of stopping, even at the time of switching to other sources, usually bear a large part of the costs. After this session, I will hand over some printed documents to you because they are very sceptical about this in Germany too, so that you will somehow be prepared. I want to be a partner, I think I'm the only Member who's even mentioned this, and our journalists aren't even specialized enough in this area to see this in order to analyze the work. As you know, Germany was building thermal power plants somewhere in the middle of its latitude precisely because of the high voltage plants in the south and wind power plants in the north and had problems with the transmission network, which is why they were all about the stability of the system and because of the poorer transfer to the construction of so-called new types of thermal power plants. The problem of Germany, and the problem of Slovenia, which can, Mr. Minister, if you listen to me, happens, is that in Germany then the manufacturer agreed that this power plant is not used so much at the stage. You know what phase-action means, that is, dropping and lowering the output power of this power plant, which is the basis of the operation. Not only do we lease more expensive electricity from TES 6, but it is the operation of a phase that enables us to stabilize our complete energy system that is a problem. And if this system continues, I know that they took X-rays then with this problem – I will not require further discussion [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u166	Thank you very much, Mr. Breznik. We continue with the question of the Member of Parliament, Dr Vinko Gorenak will turn to the Minister of Justice of the Magi with a question. Goran Klemenčič. Mr. Gorenak, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u167	Thank you very much. As a first observation, it is interesting that there is no minister again. It's like there's a reason. Criminal proceedings are pending before the District Court in Ljubljana for the abuse of the position against former Minister Aleš Zalar and former Attorney General Zvonk Fischer. A man would expect this procedure to run effectively and there would be a verdict. Obsolete is foreseen at the end of February 2018, so time is very short. One hearing was called for on 24 October, the next was opened for 6 November and the next for 10 November. You will not believe the reason why these treatments did not take place — avoiding the service of the invitation. It appears that the court can neither find Mr Zalar nor Mr Fischer, although we know exactly that Mr Fisher is going to work, and that he is likely to be sent there. Other mechanisms are also available, such as those used by the prosecutor Mrs Kotnik, the police arrested her in Cyprus, brought her to court in Ljubljana and served her an invitation. I wonder why the court doesn't take this out in this case. So why not extend the invitation in an effective manner? In an effective manner, they also invited Judge Škobernet from Celje, arrested him at a handball game, brought him to Ljubljana and served him an invitation. Let me also point out that the court has the opportunity to hold a person if he escapes the invitation. This time, of course, two eminent left-wing political February is avoided, if I say so, one should not be, but it is, it is, it is, the prosecutor and Mr Zalar is the former minister. I wanted to ask the minister: Are you going to do something? The minister would probably say he couldn't, but I wanted to ask him to step in front of the cameras and say, "The heads will fly if things get old." Just like he did in another case. Now, too, in this case, I expect the Minister to respond orally to the next meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u168	Thank you very much, Dr. Vinko Gorenak. I didn't explicitly mention he was a magician. Klemenice is justifiably absent today. Mr Luka Mesec will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnificent Nutrition a question. Diane Jedhan. Mr. Moon, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u169	Thank you for your word and a nice hello! Dear Minister, as foretold, I will ask you a question about the advertisement "our super food, our super meat" ordered by your ministry, namely the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. The ad is controversial with several aspects, both nutritional, environmental and ethical, and I am therefore asking a question. If I start eating, I'll ask you first as a food minister. If we look at the world scales, Slovenia is among the first 20 countries after meat consumption per person per year. We eat it, Slovenians and Slovenes, an average of 88 kilograms per year. This is once above the world average of 42 kilograms. Doctors, medical organizations and, after all, international organisations warn that those who eat more meat or too much meat are significantly more prone to cardiovascular diseases, high blood pressure, developing different types of cancer, leading to cancer in the gut. You're probably facing them, or at least you know the numbers I've told you, so as a food minister, I'm asking you: Do you feel responsible that in a country that is above 10% after meat consumption, you advertise meat as super food, that is, super healthy food? Don't you think it would be more prudent to do the opposite? If I touch on environmental aspects, it is known that livestock farming is currently one of the largest pollutants in the world. Global agriculture extends to 40% of all processing areas and consumes 75% of all drinking water. Three quarters of them both fall for livestock. More greenhouse gases are released into the atmosphere due to livestock farming than for global transport. This ultimately has an impact on our farmers who are facing increasingly frequent droughts, hailstones and other effects of global warming. Therefore, as Minister of Agriculture, I ask you: Do you feel responsible for encouraging meat consumption? And the third time, ethical perspective. We live in a time when there is no taboo that animals are sensitive beings, and the industry treats them literally like pieces of meat. I know that you are also the guardian of animals yourself, and from your Facebook posts and public statements it is clear that you care. That's why I'm asking you as a man: Do you not find it controversial to advertise the meat industry even though we know what the situation is? Would you rather not urge the Slovenian public to enjoy the great food that we actually have and does not cause suffering, it is called home-grown fruit and vegetables?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u170	Minister Dejan Židan, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u171	Mr Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Commissioner, I also thank you for putting the question at my request last time. Let me start at the back. From my point of view, the worst mistake we have right now, as far as animal welfare is concerned, is euthanasia, because the animal cannot find the owner after 30 days. I am telling you this because, as of Friday, there is a law in public hearing that will no longer allow it in Slovenia. Otherwise, as far as animal care is concerned, we have relatively high standards, many even superstandards. We are one of the few countries that stimulates farmers to have animals outside, so quite a lot of people decide to have cattle outside. Next thing. As far as our advertising is concerned, the aim of advertising is that the consumer, when looking for food, goes to local food. So we communicate why our food is better than foreign food, and if the consumer chooses any kind of food, let him take ours. That's what we're trying to argue in three ways. The first is because we have additional standards. Another way is because we have an additionally written system of control that other types of food do not have, i.e. a third form of control, through certified organisations. And thirdly, we reduce the carbon footprint, which is a burden, by shortening the logistic pathways. The promotion of local food can include 8 sectors, such as milk, meat, fruit, vegetables, olives, ambrosia for wine, cereals and honey. The sector that started the first agreement — an agreement between farmers, industry and the country — was the milk sector, and is likely to increase the production of raw milk, in particular milk fermented products, by more than a third, of consumer milk by more than 10 %. The following sector is the meat sector, namely poultry origin and bovine origin. At this point, the fruit sector is very close to an agreement, in fact an agreement has been reached, the only problem is to move the promotion of local fruit for a year due to the cold. The cereals sector is very close to the agreement, while other discussions are under way. So we're not saying that either milk or meat or grain, anything, in itself super healthy food, we're just saying that when you buy food, it's great if you buy food from nearby. My personal opinion is that food must be varied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u172	Port of the Moon, you have the floor to request an explanation of the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u173	Thank you. If I start at the end, we can't get past the fact that you do, despite saying that food must be varied and that the promotion of super food can enter 8 sectors, so far only the meat sector and the dairy industry. That's all that's going on right now. You have invested a million euros and a half for advertising as a ministry, but a million and a half are expected to miss the meat and milk industry. That's how it's understood from the public media. I quote what I read on the public television portal. In this sense, the most disturbing approach is, if we're talking about what super food is, you know, super food is a food syntagma that's supposed to be particularly healthy. You have now pointed this super food at advertising meat and dairy products, although you are probably aware of everything I have told you, it is said that Slovenians eat an average amount of meat, that this is a health risk factor, that livestock farming is one of the largest pollutants and that the superstandards you are talking about are not superstandard. In recent decades, the meat industry has developed into such a grotesque horror that I am confident that in a few years we will look at it with disgust. And if we're talking about superstandards, we're talking more or less about cosmetic improvements. No action that will promote meat consumption, which your action in the first place is, can soften these facts. So once again, I ask you: Why don't we as food minister invest money in making sure people start eating healthier, more organic food that doesn't even cause [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u174	Minister Dejan Židan, please, you have the floor to complete the agreement.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u175	Thank you. Ecological may be meat production, milk production, any production, this is not related to the type of food. As far as Slovenia is concerned, the sectors where farmers and industry have reached an agreement have joined each other, and only later is the country that joins. We have decided that our experience, that the country forces individual sectors, is unsuccessful and therefore we demand that they reach agreement first within the sector and then the country approaches. The first arrangement was within milk, then with two types of animal production, and so now goes on. But there's something we just need to be aware of. We do not have typical agricultural areas in Slovenia. Others have two-thirds of fields and one-third of grass available; in Slovenia we have two-thirds of grass available, mostly in areas where no other production is possible. This means, in practice, that our agricultural policy and also our production or vice versa, production and then politics are based on herbivores. If we say that we are moving away from grass-eating animals in Slovenia, we decided to stop production at two thirds of agricultural production. I believe that there will also be a debate on this in the future, but I would like to emphasise the following. We cannot talk about healthy food, we can talk about a healthy diet, and food is safe for humans or is not safe for humans. As far as they have taught me, believe me, this is a lot of work, and at this point the definition of a healthy diet is a variety of diets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u176	Mr Luka Moon, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u177	Thank you for your word, one last time. Food that causes so much suffering as is caused by modern livestock, which destroys the environment as much as is destroyed by modern livestock, and which is proven to be too much, cannot in any way be safe food. If you're saying that it's for animal welfare and you're reminding yourself of the euthanasia problem in animal shelters, I would warn you that this segment only touches pets. They belong, if I say so, to one percent of the luckiest animals in the world right now, because they are dealt with with by some kind of loving guardians, because they have regulated living conditions and so on, while for all animals living in industry, and these are no longer appropriate, we can't approach these standards in any way. There are chicks slaughtered, some practically at birth, if we're talking about oats or calves, chickens of laying hens that are male, are crushed on the first day of life, others are placed in a battery range for some 40 days to reach two kilograms, and then slaughtered. These are currently standards that rule there. Most of these animals never see daylight, let alone any treatment that could be earned as living creatures. All of this needs to be kept in front of our eyes when we talk about how much meat we eat and what living conditions these animals will live in. For all the reasons I have listed, I find it unacceptable that the Ministry of Agriculture, in the light of all this, is subsidising the advertising of meat, while many other countries are already practically going in a completely different direction. For example, China announced last year and eat significantly less meat than we do to halve its meat consumption, Denmark, which once ate the most meat in the world per capita, reduced its consumption between 2002 and 2009, from 145 kilograms to 90, similar results can be seen in Cyprus, in action in the UK and so on. I would like our Ministry of Agriculture to begin to come closer to these modern standards and to start talking about the problem that I highlighted in Slovenian politics at all. This has never been talked about, and I think not only to the public space, but especially to animals and ultimately to humans, we cause great harm. I therefore propose that we open a public debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u178	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 16 November, in the framework of the votes. We are moving on to the second round of questions from Members and Members of Parliament. As the first gets the word of Dr Vinko Gorenak, the question referred to the Minister of Public Administration, Mr Boris Koprivnikar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u179	Thank you very much. I believe I've made clear enough what I'm going to ask you. I want to ask you: What about the provisions of Articles 162 to 169 of the Law on Electronic Communications? These articles were repealed by the Constitutional Court in 2014. On the committee led by Mr Grims, you have, I think, once in April or May, a debate on this and the consequences, and then this Commission called on the Government, unitedly regardless of opposition or coalition, to try to set things straight and replace these articles accordingly. Why are we going into this area? For the main reason that the matter is directly linked, I stress that it is directly linked to criminal proceedings. And you're kind of, I'll say, the content that I'm dealing with in my task force. Let me simplify this for the general public. Operators today should maintain so-called economic data and operators should keep records of other data under the currently repealed Articles 162 to 169. These Articles 162 to 169 were mostly the basis for the introduction of criminal proceedings and for the conduct of criminal proceedings. Since we don't have that, it's not possible for the police and the D.A. to get that kind of information. The Constitutional Court stated that they should be destroyed immediately in 2014. In Article 169 of this Act, I find it unfortunate, wrong, wrong, I do not know how, the Constitutional Court, because it has repealed the whole chapter, has also revoked the power of the Information Officer to control this area. And this area is not under control today, it's not under control at all. The police, however, use the data of operators in the economic field. And this is the data that tells you where you've been on the phone, who you've emailed, who's been calling you, how long you've been talking to, where you've been moving and so on and so forth. However, these data must be destroyed after payment of the account. After the bill's been paid. In practice, abuse occurs. About that in the second part of the question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u180	Minister Koprivnik, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u181	Thank you, Chairman. Thank you, honourable Member, for this matter. Of course, you know well that this is a question that we are constantly dealing with, and we are constantly looking for a relationship, because this is a very delicate balance. Of course, you are looking at it from the point of view of the criminal procedure, perfectly justified, from the point of view of control, monitoring and storage, if you allow me to express myself as such, the digital footprint of all our works, but here is the opposite sex, the other aspect, but this is an aspect of interference with privacy, which is a democratic norm. And in the legal regulation of this area, which can only be one, it is essential to balance these two issues. As you yourself have found, of course, the Constitutional Court annulled this provision in 2014 and then did not set a time limit for this to be settled, but the Court of Justice of the European Union annulled that decision before that date and subsequently followed a decision of the Constitutional Court. Both courts, both European and our constitutional courts, have set very strict criteria for the possible storage of these documents; in which case, how long? And these criteria are being negotiated in the preparation of the Law on Electronic Communications, the Law on Information Security, and this debate is once again taking place. At the same time, the Court of Justice of the European Union in December 2016 re-examined the judgment in the case of the Swedish Tele2 and adopted an even stricter position, in particular an extremely strict position on what kind of interventions and preservation into our privacy are allowed in a democratic society, thus constituting a further change. In July this year, we simply did not reach agreement between these two gaps in order to include this in the amendment of Law 1C, but we cannot enforce solutions that would be contrary to or with the judgment of the European Court of Justice or the Constitutional Court, so that we must necessarily balance these two relations in some way. That is why, through the TTE Council in the European Union – you know that a so-called code or code is being drawn up, which is also supposed to regulate this area – we also asked at this level to speed up the preparation of this code, so that perhaps through common European practice we could come up with a uniform regime, which, of course, would also be summarised in our Slovenian practice. But this moment within Slovenia we have failed to achieve this consensus, there are great differences within the European conversation, but we have strongly advocated, which is also evident from all our interventions at the TTE Telecommunications Council, in order to speed up the preparation of this code very quickly, and we are counting on this code to be ready for this measure in the coming year, so that we can either use it directly or summarize it into our legal order. This would be the solution to this complication or the search for this compromise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u182	Dr. Vinko Gorenak, you have the floor to request an explanation of the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u183	Thank you. Let's keep it professional. I didn't understand that last part when you were talking. I don't know what kind of marriage someone's supposed to make. Please, if you'll just explain this to me. But I have to warn you about the next thing. From the European Court of Justice, from the European regulation which has been repealed to our law, which has also been repealed in this work, one thing you need to know is that the urgency of the European regulation, which, say, Germany has implemented extremely well, is that the data we are talking about is stored in such a long time for only the worst crimes. This means demolition or protection of constitutional arrangements, some, I don't know, heavy robberies, murders and things like that. With us Minister Klemenčič with the Criminal Procedure Act, I stress, with the Criminal Procedure Act, I think it was Article 153, he tried things as much – from the left hand to the right pocket as he calls it. Why? Because he wrote there that these data should be kept for offences for which a one-year sentence is prescribed or more. This is, in my opinion, contrary to the Constitutional Court's decision. And what I want to remind you in particular, now that you have time to answer, is that a lot of people are addressing me and that there are a lot of proceedings before the Constitutional Court, because operators do not respect, Minister, the rule that economic data should be destroyed — these are the details for the issue of the account — as soon as the account is paid. Operators are today sending the police and the D.A. data, which are years old and should have been destroyed a long time ago, which means that there will be a major problem in many procedures.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u184	Minister Koprivnikar, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u185	Thank you. Explain first. It's two regulations. One is the Law on Electronic Communications, which is adopted at the level of the European Regulation, and the other is the so-called ePrivacy Regulation, which is also adopted at the level of the European Union. Both of them interfere in when and in what case we can interfere in or store and use the information generated in our electronic communications. When you say the most serious offenses, I completely understand that, but if we want to use this information in case of the most serious offenses, we need to keep this information for all of us. So, about all of us, all the data will be stored if one of us accidentally commits the most serious offense. Now I have made this dilemma very simple and here is the core of the dispute, not whether to use the data at the level of the court, but whether it is allowed about all of us, about all of our communications and how in-depth and how much time to store data. This is undoubtedly an intervention in privacy, and this is, you know, a major debate on the subject of privacy and also the independence of the Internet. But as for the possible abuses you're talking about. You need to understand that the Ministry is preparing, coordinating legislation, but it does not implement it in the sense that we would exercise control. Therefore, we have a stand-alone regulatory agency called the Communications Networks and Services Agency, and they have to monitor it, and if there are any irregularities in their controls, if you have such information, then we both know what are the ways to get this information from the relevant authorities and take appropriate action. The Ministry alone cannot interfere with the functioning of Akosa, which is an independent regulatory agency, nor in the functioning of the operators themselves, but if it is possible under the legislation to improve the conditions for their work, we will, of course, do so. And to be clear, this dilemma of data storage and the ability of law enforcement authorities to effectively carry out their tasks is something that I am not running away from, but we definitely need to set it out, in order to balance these two basic standards, the right to privacy for certain purposes and with certain supervision and the right to privacy that we have as a democratic standard for all citizens in our country and probably also in the European Union. In any case, we will continue to achieve this consensus, contribute to resolving these issues as soon as possible at the European level and also reach consensus in the Slovenian space in order to enable effective detection and prosecution of crimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u186	Dr. Vinko Gorenak, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u187	Not because of any level of dissatisfaction with the Minister's response, but more so because of the need in this area, I propose that we hold this debate. Minister, this agency that you spoke about has other powers, control, if you allow, over the storage of data was under the responsibility of the Information Officer, but Article 169, together with the entire chapter, has been abolished and today the Information Officer has no possibility of going to check these matters, but this agency that you are talking about, I don't know if it has control or not, but it needs to be clarified, but the law has determined that it is the Information Officer. I think it is still necessary to try something else about this in the National Assembly in one way or another, but above all I would recommend that you look at how the Germans did it, because it seems to me that the Germans really took this story in such a very effective way. But I don't know how they store the data. They probably have to keep it if you want to check it out. In short, I propose a debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u188	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday in the framework of the vote. Mr Franz Breznik will ask the question of the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Peter Gasperšić.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u189	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Peter Gasperšič! As you know, you were visiting Lenart on 3 February of this year in Slovenski Gorica, where we looked at the issue of construction of our northern bypass. In doing so, I would like to thank you personally and also on behalf of the inhabitants of the Slovenian Mountains for actively participating in the construction of the Northern Carnivore. I must also personally acknowledge that one of the most important priorities for me is at the local level, and last but not least, the Northern Lenary Band is also part of the 2018 budget and so on. So I would like to remind you, because I have looked at the budget lines and the draft budget on this item for the Northern Lenary Oblast, so on item 2431-18-65, that in the following year it is in the budget for 2018 and 2019, allocated EUR 50 000, then for 2020 it is in the plan of EUR 200 000, the plan for 2021 is 500 000 and then the plan for 2021 13 million, so the investment is estimated at about EUR 14 million. As you know, we have also said personal needs, so that it will be a redefinition, that we have to move it spatially somehow because of the people who have now settled on the Road Along the Forest. I know that the works, probably such small items for two years are mainly intended for documentation, but I would like to remind you that we have somehow tried to agree on the last third of the car, namely, with the industrial zone to the link to the road to Cmurek, which we could immediately implement, to ask for your support here so that this item could somehow be raised in the budget for 2018/2019. I myself have proposed 2 million, I think we can make a compromise, but it was extremely important because of this – perhaps in the second part of the question I can say. So, at the end of this year, at the beginning of the next year, we will fix or modernise the road through Lenart, where we can say that we will further restrict freight traffic, give more opportunities to cyclists and pedestrians, and that will result in a number of companies employing many Slovenians in transport, especially Kurnik in Lenart and, of course, many other motorists who have invested a large part of the funds, in the coming years, extremely limited access to their companies, to their parking spaces and, of course, limited operation. Therefore, I ask that this budget item be raised so that at least one third of this envelope can start as soon as possible. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u190	Dr. Peter Gaspersich, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u191	Thank you, President, for your word. Once again, I have a broader answer, because the question put forward by the Member was only as if the question of the construction of the railways would be raised, so I will mention what you mentioned, as well as some other projects related to the carriageways, so the answer will be a little wider. I would say that the Ministry is working very hard in this mandate to increase the budget for investment in road and rail infrastructure, so that this volume of higher available resources is already known and there is already a marked increase in investment and project implementation in Slovenia. Thus, at the beginning of this year, we have already exchanged certain information about the construction of the railways, and I would point out here once again that in this year 5 railways are being built, one of which is already completed and the other four are still under way. This is the mandatory road of the village of Godovic, Lower Idrija-Godovič, worth almost a million euros; then there is the construction of the northern unloading road in Bled, the second and third phases, which is built in the value of a good 4 million euros, the conclusion is planned next year; here is the outskirts of Krško, the construction of the bridge near Žadovnik and the connecting roads with a connection to the municipal road of 4.7 million euros; then here is the southern obliging road of Murska Sobota, worth a good 6 million euros, and the Sela Oblast, which was carried out in the framework of the construction of the road Dragari-Osilnica, which has already been completed and has been valued at a bad 400 000 euros. The total value of all these 5 projects exceeds EUR 16 million. With regard to Lenart, I can say that, as we agreed in the spring, the municipality will provide accommodation in space, for this eight-meter section from the industrial zone to the road towards Cmurek, a project task has been prepared and, according to our known information, a manufacturer of professional bases has not yet been selected. In short, this part of the accommodation in the space is not yet completed, but when this accommodation is completed, we have a project, as I stated in the budget, active, foreseen, and if the conditions for implementation are met, I think it is really the least possible to give priority to this short section, which will make it much easier to connect. I estimate that even EUR 2 million will not be needed for that eight-meter section because the route is relatively simple. However, I can also say that in the coming year there are other railways such as the Kidričev Oblast, the Tolmin Oblast, the Maribor Oblast, which is on the Proletar Brigade Road, is also a building project for the Slovenska Bistrica oblasta. In short, what kind of projects are in preparation and if the funds are kept to the extent that we have provided in 2018 and 2019, that is about EUR 200 million per year, these projects will also be successfully implemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u192	Mr. Franz Breznik, you have the floor to request an explanation of the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u193	Nevertheless, I thank you for the first part of the answer, Minister-in-chief. I'd still like to fill you in somehow. Of course, I will work with the municipal people in Lenart, with the mayors, to carry out this part of their homework as soon as possible. We're talking about this eight-meter belt, for the other two-thirds of this bypass, of course, it takes a longer time, which is reasonable. Of course, we will also try to be a partner there as soon as possible. Entrepreneurs have an extremely serious problem with access in this part. They do have the possibility of a southern bypass, which we were driving on at the time, but of course they were not aware of it, and now the road through Lenart, when it will be renovated in the following year, will narrow dramatically, problems will also be for other motorists going through Lenart to the Appasian Valley to Radgona. During the summer months in Lenart, we have a problem that many tourists, mainly from Slovakia, Czech Republic, who come to the border crossing of Cmurek, drive through Lenart to avoid paying tolls. It's this road that would somehow unload part of this traffic, so this eight-meter belt from Cmurek across the industrial zone onto this road, and then the thing could go south. I would like to ask you if you could provide some more resources in the active part of the budget for the Lenary Northern Carnivore. I gave myself a flat rate of 2 million, of course I agree that the item would be a million or less satisfactory. I would ask if we could also present this to the people of the Ministry and provide some of the funds. Of course, I will do my homework, we will prepare complete documentation for this part as soon as possible, so that we may begin construction by the end of next year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u194	Minister, you have the floor to complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u195	As a matter of fact, I can thank you here for your help. Certainly we will also actively participate with the Municipality of Lenart in the realisation of this part of the accommodation. But I can also say that in the budget, in these 200 million euros, we have a number of projects that we know are going on differently, not always in line with the expected plans. In so doing, during the financial year itself, these transfers are carried out, and if this part is successfully placed in space and can then be actively built, I am sure that the resources needed to carry out the most urgent eight hundred metres of the long section will be provided. I can ensure this in this place as a minister, and I am sure that there will be no problem with this at the Directorate as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u196	We continue with the next question. Mr Jan Škoberne will ask the question of the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Peter Gasperšić. Mr. Scoberne, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u197	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, Your Honor Minister, all three colleagues present! I myself, like my colleague Breznik, can find that cooperation between the Ministry led by Dr Gasperšič and the local communities, at least those I represent in this House, is one of the better. I am pleased to say that I can say the same about your ministerial colleague on the right and that this time, in fact, it is pleasant to ask the question of the Member State, when I expect, in some way, that at the end of this answer, it will not refer to the next year, but to the fact that, after a visit to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the ground, to the Savinja-Shalejska Valley, in a given case in Velenj, we find that our common challenges are identified, that we are aware that the transport infrastructure is one of the fundamentals for development. I probably do not need to stress in particular that in Velenje, the second largest Slovenian exporter, is an industrial pool with an exceptional fluctuation of labour, daily migration, including difficult, heavy transport, and from this point of view one of the key things we need to resolve in the future remains the state-owned Silesian road or its junction with Kidrič. In view of the fact that we were able to say anecdotally at that time, we were quite afraid to visit the government on the ground because your previous visit, a year earlier, followed the floods, but this time we were more pleased with the arrangements that we might still take a step forward towards what the visits are intended to do. However, there was a fear that even in the light of the adoption of this budget, what was agreed on with regard to Shaleška and, as a result, Kidrič's road would hang in the air, I ask: What's the plan? What's the timer? Can we expect at least procedures to start in 2018, and I hope that they are at least ready if not the final implementation works for the regulation of this section? Thank you very much, Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u198	Minister Gaszperšič, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u199	Thank you for your word, chairman. Thank you, too, Member Jan Škobernet, for the question raised and also thank you for the words of praise. I must say that, in this mandate, we are certainly working very hard to make the necessary investments in road infrastructure, as I have already pointed out in the previous question, to a greater extent, to be implemented to a greater extent, and in this way the trend of under-investment that we have witnessed in previous years, as well as in times of crisis up to and including 2015, is reversed. In 2016, 2017 and also in 2018, we managed to provide the necessary level of these funds by increasing the dynamics of investments. There is certainly a key project on the third development axis in the Savinij-Shale region, as I have already answered one question today. We have undoubtedly given this the top priority and I think that the project is taking place properly. Here, too, I can thank my ministerial colleague for having successfully placed this key section from the highway from Šentrupert to Velenje, so that we can now treat this whole section to Slovenia Gradac in a single manner. As it was said, all activities are managed so that at the end of 2019 we can start building this necessary development axis until Slovenj Gradac, and if everything goes as planned, this building will be completed in 2023. With regard to the arrangement of the Shaleska road or the reconstruction of the intersection with Kidrič's road, I can say that projects for implementation were built in 2010 but there were later changes, Mercator was built, a new bus station was built, so these projects need to be redesigned. A new document for the identification of the idea project has already been developed, and a co-financing agreement has also been approved, so that an amendment is now under way for the implementation of this 7-year-old project, namely the arrangements of the Silesian Road itself and the crossing with Kidrič. Currently, the development of the Kidrič road transport study, currently under review, will be followed by the amendment of these projects after this review, so that new project documentation will be produced in 2018 and is expected to join the construction of this road by the end of 2018. The majority of construction works are foreseen in 2019. I am counting on this to be done, given that the projects are also foreseen in the budgets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u200	We have one last question, Mr Luka Mesec will ask the Minister for the Environment and the Space of Mrs Irena Majcen. Mr. Moon, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u201	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting, Madam Secretary! My question, as predicted, will be regarding housing policy in the Republic of Slovenia. I think we can both initially agree with the assessment that the housing policy of the last quarter of the century in our country is virtually nonexistent. There were no serious measures, following the notorious Law of Jasbinsk, when the apartments were divided, to block the rise in real estate prices, to allow access to housing and to allow those who did not come to high-value property by dividing the dwellings with the Jasbinski Act in general, so that they could reach their homes in some normal way. So today we have a whole generation of young people who can only dream of ever having their own apartment, unless they're willing to take credit for 30 years or more. The correction is intended to be the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, which is formerly a real estate agency as a housing fund. If I only mention 2 cases, these are Project Green Gage and Project Brdo. In Green Gaj – already Franz Trček asked the Prime Minister a question before – the cheapest wardrobe was sold for 140,000 euros and the most expensive house for 820,000 euros. This was built by means of a national housing fund. 820 thousand euros is a price that I think no one in this room can afford, except for the people who need it. He's on the Hill, too. The F3 block, according to the data I received, was built for 7 million euros, and the apartments in it were sold for 14. Again, the apartment, 38 square meters long, was sold for 140 thousand euros. Therefore, as ministers, I ask you the following questions: Do you find the operation of the National Housing Fund to be prudent and justified? Why, given that the housing fund behaves first as a real estate agency as a housing fund, do you not correct its policies? Why is only €790 000 still in the budget for the operation of the National Housing Fund, which is for about 3 wardrobes in Ljubljana today, but for some serious construction? When will a serious housing policy start to take place in Slovenia, which will have an ambition to lower market prices and make housing accessible?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u202	Dear Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u203	Dear Vice President, honourable Members! Member of the Commission, Mr Luka Mesec, thank you for the question. When I answer your questions, I will try to be understanding, but it is not certain that I will, so we have another round if my efforts are not the most successful. If we are going first to the concept of selling Green Gaj and Brda, I must say that at the time of the acquisition of the Ministry these investments were already in the final stage, so they were planned before our government arrived. In an operational sense, I am convinced that I have made the right decision, to stop an investment which is in the final stage because, according to today's criteria or on my own standards, it is not appropriate. [[…]] The investment was closed, and as planned from the outset, these apartments or kind houses were being built for the market and still, not all sold, are being offered on the market. However, we adopted a resolution in the National Assembly on the national housing programme, which laid the groundwork for the implementation of housing policy. The Government adopted the policy of the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia by 2020. The resolution itself discusses the aspirations and efforts of the government until 2025. So in the coming years, the government will reconfirm this policy by 2025. The policy of the Republic Housing Fund by 2020 provides for the construction, or redemption, of 2,000 housing units. Of this, about half of them — I think the term non-profit housing is quite useful — that is, a thousand non-profit apartments for which invitations have already been issued for the construction of 500 apartments for municipalities, 300 apartments for the elderly and 100 for the young. The other half is supposed to be built as cost apartments, where investment facilities are actually already prepared, not all of them, but investments in Novo Brdo, Maribor and Kranj. If we are talking about the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, which owns just over 3 000 100 housing units that are non-profit, plus 720 cost units, it is currently in the process of buying an additional 2 000 150 apartments in Zasavje. Another 2,000 units are provided by 2020. This means, at least in my opinion, that the intention to increase the housing fund has come true. Why do we have non-profit apartments on the one hand and, on the other hand, expensive apartments? Since the Republic Housing Fund is obliged to take care of the housing policy of all the inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia, it is not only non-profit housing and, in some ways, it maintains a level of market price that is more acceptable than it would have been if the housing fund were not. It is true, however, that for this construction, the housing fund has 500 million capital for these plans, and this is not the amount that we have already discussed on the committee itself, namely 790 000 budget resources from our ministry in the space sector. These funds are provided for the subsidisation of market rents by municipalities. Maybe I'll add something further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u204	Port of the Moon, you have the floor to request a reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u205	Thank you for your word, again. It is this part of my concern that the housing fund works in the direction of maintaining market prices for rents or maintaining market prices in general. In Brdo pri Ljubljani, apartments are sold at a price of EUR 3,000 355 per square meter. Such a price is simply unacceptable for a country where the average salary is 1,000 euros per month. Here the other room in the apartment or balcony is essentially considered superstandard. This is also the reason, Madam Minister, that young people of my generation simply prefer to find work and a home outside this country. If you drive to the nearby Danube, you will easily get an apartment there at a substantially lower rental price than in Ljubljana and a significantly better paid service. With us, many families or many of my peers literally have to invest half their monthly income either in rent or in paying off 30 - year loans. For this there are only two alternatives, a mansard in the countryside with parents, if they have them there, or an eviction from the country. I find it absolutely unacceptable that the National Housing Fund behaves this way. Last time I listened to Director Črtomir Remc in Odessa, who was faced with a similar question as I am now addressing him, and he answered somehow in terms of hiring. That sounds too much in my ears from a more famous case in history. What I would like and why I criticize your policy is, for the first time, because you allow the housing fund to behave this way, and for the second time, because the funds in the budget are the same as you yourself said. These are some of the monetary means of subsidising rents, instead of investing significantly more in the housing fund and redirecting its policy to start with some large-scale non-profit construction in order for the population of this country [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u206	Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor to complete your answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u207	As for the sale of such houses in Green Gare and on the Hill, I think I have made it clear enough to you that I also disagree with this policy and that we have stopped it as a Government, but not so that the apartments remain unfinished, in the unbuilt apartments there were obviously a lot of resources paid, so these investments have ended, the apartments have been sold and the new such investments will of course not go into the apartment fund. I think that a greater tragedy is also for young, older people, any number of dwellings built in Slovenia, which are not available on the market, so they are empty. It is true that the housing fund also tried to negotiate the possible purchase of these apartments, but it was then found that the price or safety of buying such apartments for a book mortgage was not possible. In this housing policy, I imagine that in the construction of dwellings, at least I can’t say otherwise than that, the municipalities are also committed to it and the participation of the municipalities is important, since the municipalities also have a large number of these dwellings in their fund. Non-profit dwellings are built primarily on land owned by the municipality and if the municipality has an interest in building such apartments, of course, the acquisition of a co-investor, i.e. the Republic Housing Fund, the possible subsidisation of rents is large. It is true, however, that in these matters, the local communities are not acting in the same way, or that their interest is quite different from that of Mr Luka Mesec. It is true that, following the adoption of the resolution on the housing programme, we are also preparing legislation, and I am sure that the 2,000 housing units provided by the Housing Fund in cooperation with the Ministry’s professional services by 2020 will take an important step towards ensuring a larger number of housing units. For the following years, of course, the possibility of housing construction can be even greater, and let us not forget how many housing units are empty in the Republic of Slovenia. That's the number. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u208	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Mr Luka Moon, you have the floor to make a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u209	Thank you for your word. First answer to the Minister. Of course, some apartments are empty, but they are empty, for the first time, because prices are too high, secondly, because, as you said before, some are burdened with mortgages. But it's also the responsibility of the state, so you finally set up a bad bank. Secondly, when you place the responsibility on the municipalities to move and pursue housing policy, I need to remind you again that we have been discussing the averages of the municipalities, i.e. their incomes, and that the municipalities are, in fact, without serious investment funds, so it is impossible for them to impose this obligation. And thirdly, here we come to the responsibility of the state and its housing fund. If this country has the money to invest more than a billion euros in the two battalions that we will use for NATO, then it should have ten times as much money to invest in the construction of suitable apartments for entire generations that cannot access them. But if that's not the case, then we can't invest in NATO. Given how confused the priorities of this government are, I propose that we also open the debate on housing policy in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-13-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u210	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 16 November, in the framework of the votes. I thank the Prime Minister, ministers and ministers for the answers given. I hereby end this agenda item, which we will continue on Thursday, 16 November 2017, when the National Assembly decides on the proposed decisions in the framework of the votes. I also interrupt the 35th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. With that, I thank you all, and I wish you a lovely evening. Good-bye, good-bye!
