ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Starting the 35th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Primož Hainz from 17 till 20:00, Branko Zorman, Matthew Tonin, Ludmila Novak from 2.30 p.m. to 19 p.m., Iva Dimic from 17:00 p.m., Mitja Horvat from 18.30 p.m. to 10.30 p.m. and from 17 till 21 p.m., Vojka Šergan from 17 till 21 p.m., Irena Grošelj Kosnik, Erika Dekleva to 15 p.m., Danilo Anton Ranc from 17 to 21 p.m., Branislav Rajić to 2.30 p.m., Simona Kustec Lipicer from 18.30 p.m., Milan Brglez from 18.30 to 20.30, Aleksander Kavčič and Janja Slug. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 3. On the proposal to amend the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 and 4. POSITION OF THE DAY, THIS IS A SUPPLEMENTED PROPOSAL OF THE BUDGET OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA FOR 2019. In the context of agenda items 3 and 4, the National Assembly will carry out joint introductory presentations on the proposal for amending the budget and a supplementary draft budget has been submitted by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor first to the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar, to further explain both proposals for acts.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u2	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, citizens and citizens! Over the past weeks, the working bodies of the National Assembly have considered the draft amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 and the draft budget for 2019, which are the subject of today's consideration. In the process of addressing both draft budgets, valuable and high-quality substantive discussions were held and several amendments were tabled that affected different areas of action. The government has examined the proposals, but it cannot support the amendments within the framework of the public financial opportunities provided and given the priorities and legal obligations set. The draft amending budget for 2018 takes into account the macroeconomic frameworks and the gradual approximation of the medium-term fiscal objective as required by the constitutional and legal arrangements in the Republic of Slovenia and the arrangements at European Union level. In order to ensure the conditions for long-term sustainability of public finances, short-term economic and social policy measures are directed at the same time to medium- and long-term objectives. The government therefore insists on the road map so that the structural balance of the sector will be balanced by the end of 2020, as required by the Fiscal Rule Act. This is also a reason for the careful and gradual release of austerity measures, which, where possible, are regulated in the long term and in a systematic manner and taking into account the current economic situation and the overall impact on the position of the individual. In line with the public funding options and taking into account the long-term public financial stability, the Government is planning expenditure in the Proposal for amending the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 by adapting it to the current economic situation. The budget proposal for next year is prepared in a situation of strengthening the economic activity we are witnessing this year and with positive macroeconomic prospects for the coming and coming years. The nominal growth of GDP, as estimated by Umar, will reach 5.9% in 2018, which is not directly reflected in the higher tax revenues of the state budget, which are increasing slower, that is only 3.8%. The higher revenue of the 2018 State budget, which is planned at EUR 9.7 billion, will allow for an excess of the state budget of EUR 51 million, while at the same time more resources will be allocated to priorities, investments at national and local level, and financing of areas that have been limited in the past by measures, namely, the abolition of salaries abnormalities in the public sector, the coordination of pensions and the annual allowance for pensioners and family and social benefits. In line with NATO commitments, an increase in defence expenditure is planned and more funds are allocated to some other areas, such as health care, higher education and science, which are allocated EUR 275 million. Total expenditure is planned at EUR 9.6 billion in the Draft amending budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018. The updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2019 is prepared in accordance with the Fiscal Rule Act, which provides for a gradual balance of revenue and expenditure in the country's budget until we reach the objective of a medium-term balance of income and expenditure in the country's budget without debt. The revenue of the state budget for 2019 is planned at EUR 9.8 billion and will enable the state budget surplus to be reached at EUR 54 million. At the same time this year, higher revenues allow more resources to be allocated to priorities, investments at national and local level and other areas where expenditure growth has been limited in the past due to the public financial situation. In line with NATO commitments, an increase in defence expenditure is also planned in 2019. More money is intended to improve public health, the quality of health services and their accessibility, shorten waiting periods and improve the management of health institutions. More resources are also allocated to some other areas, such as higher education and science. For example, €321 million will be allocated to research equipment and projects and research infrastructure. This will strengthen the development of scientific staff and young researchers and scientific research with the aim of supporting innovation and basic and applied research that will contribute to the creation of high added value. Total expenditure is planned at EUR 9.7 billion in the 2019 updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Amendments totalling EUR 217.5 million, which the Government unfortunately could not support, were tabled on the updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2019. The government is therefore proposing only one supplement for 2019 with additional funding for investment in primary schools at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, amounting to EUR 3 million, which resulted in a reduction in compensation at the Ministry of Finance in the same amount. I am convinced that the proposal for amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 and the updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2019 are a good basis for the further development and delivery of public services, so I propose to the National Assembly that it adopt them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u3	Thank you. I also give the floor to the Minister of Finance of Magi to further explain both proposals for acts. Matei Vranictor Erman.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u4	Dear Mr President, honourable President of the Government, colleagues, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The National Assembly adopted the 2018 budget last November. The macroeconomic situation has changed significantly since last autumn, the real economic growth in 2016 was higher than we estimated last year, and we expect higher economic growth this year, and not just this year, for the next two years. Domestic consumption is increasing, employment is rising. All these circumstances have an impact on the change in both the revenue and expenditure sides of the budgets. Allow me to recall once again the substantial changes in the 2018 budget and the main features of the 2019 budget. The proposal to amend the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 increases revenue and expenditure, with revenue increasing faster. The €409 million will be higher and the expenditure will be 53 million compared to last year's adopted budget. Instead of the deficit planned last year, a surplus of almost €51 million is now planned in the draft amending the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018. This is how revenue is planned at a total of €9 billion 676 million and expenditure at €9 billion 625 million. The higher revenues result from both the change in the dynamics of European spending, the new perspectives and the strengthening of the domestic revenues of the state budget, resulting from the changed macroeconomic circumstances and the impact of the measures taken to improve the Slovenian business environment. Let me remind you that we already planned on the revenue side of the 2018 budget for the revenue from the payment of the retained cohesion funds of the old financial perspective of EUR 205 million last year. It is now clear that by the end of this year all control procedures on the correctness of their consumption will be completed, and we reasonably expect an inflow in the first half of 2018. On the expenditure side, in addition to the areas previously presented by the President, the key investment in the upgrade and modernisation of rail infrastructure, in road links, in the development of public transport, in renewable energy sources, in the reorganisation of state information technology will be crucial in the coming year. Together, €822 million will be allocated to this infrastructure, which will also contribute to the more equitable development of the regions. In order to ensure security, more than €1.3 billion will be allocated to the development of the defence system, to the technical equipment of the police, to the enhancement of the efficiency and quality of the functioning of the judiciary and, last but not least, to the enhancement of flood security. More money is devoted to improving public health, the quality of health services and their accessibility, shortening waiting periods and improving the management of health institutions, and funding is provided for the completion of health investments. Together, EUR 170 million is allocated to health care from the State budget, and funding from a health treasury of EUR 2.8 billion is still to be mentioned in the full picture of public health funding. Pensions will be co-ordinated with €4.5 billion, of which €1.2 billion from the State budget, and the rest from the pension fund financed by the contributions collected for pension and disability insurance. This, of course, does not represent all the expenditure of the pension fund, which we are planning at the rate of EUR 5.3 billion. One billion euros will be allocated to transfers of unemployment, family benefits and parental benefits, paternity leave, cash social assistance, social security allowance, protection of war invalids, war veterans and victims of war violence, repressing school transportation, student food, scholarships and care in nursing homes. With an active employment policy, which includes incentives for employment, the integration of unemployed persons into support and development programmes, public works, training and education, €95.7 million is planned. This will contribute to strengthening employment and further reducing unemployment. Promoting entrepreneurship, competitiveness, foreign investment, marketing, tourism development and business recovery and support for technological development will be allocated EUR 144 million. Financial instruments will be implemented from European funds for more risky investment by businesses with the aim of increasing added value. The government has also ensured a gradual release of restrictions in the area of municipal funding as it has proposed an average of €551 for 2018, which is 15 euro more than is currently in force. In the coming years, we provide 6% of total eligible expenditure, 3% for reimbursement and 3% for non-refundable investments by municipalities from the state budget. It is important to mention, first of all, expenditure on public debt servicing, which is reduced in the light of the performance assessment for this year and in the light of the 2018 budget adopted. This reduction is due to good active management with the debt of the state budget, with which we are pursuing two objectives, the reduction of interest costs by early debt swaps and the extension of the debt manual, thus contributing to a more stable planning of expenditure for these purposes over the coming years. The proposal for amendments to the B balance sheet mainly reflects the fact that there has been a time delay in the implementation of the Second Tier Act, and therefore this year's envisaged recapitalisation of 2TKK will not be fully implemented and funds for this should be provided for in the coming year. In proposal C of the balance sheet, however, we show the extent to which credit is owed and paid. In 2018, we estimate that in view of Slovenia's changed position in international financial markets, we can reduce the so-called liquidity reserve of assets in the accounts and thus further help to reduce the level of government budget debt. I would like to briefly erase the main features of the 2019 budget. In the supplementary draft budget, revenue is projected at EUR 9 billion 751 million and expenditure at EUR 9 billion 697 million. In 2019, this means that there will be more revenue in the global of €75 million than is estimated for 2018, while expenditure increases by €72 million compared to 2018. In the revenue assessment, it should be recalled once again that in 2018 we are planning a single inflow of EUR 205 million in retention payments, which means that the revenue in 2019 is actually more than 280 million. A nominal surplus of EUR 53.8 million is thus planned in the updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2019. Such expenditure and revenue planning shall ensure further fiscal consolidation aimed at achieving structurally balanced public finances by the end of 2020. In 2019, too, there remain key guidelines for budget planning to promote economic growth and consolidate public finances. We also maintain our priorities: investing in infrastructure for better quality of life and work, investing in science and employment, strengthening the quality of health services and enhancing safety in the broadest sense of the word. More resources are also allocated in 2019 to science and the information society, which contribute to increasing the competitiveness and added value of the economy through measures to promote innovation and technologically advanced production services. The defence budget is being increased due to changed security conditions requiring more adequate defence capabilities against security threats, improving the preparedness and sustainability of the Slovenian military and achieving common objectives and commitments within the European Union and NATO. We continue with the policy of enhanced financing in the areas of health, transport infrastructure, active employment policies and other priority objectives. The structure of the expenditure of the supplementary draft budget, in addition to those priorities and exposed areas relevant for equitable development, also ensures the smooth implementation of public services, the fulfilment of legal obligations and other tasks of the State, and I point out once again that we are also pursuing a medium-term fiscal objective regarding the balance of public finances. With such complex policies and the proposed structure of the expenditure of the state budget, we are pursuing a balanced development that takes into account the social and economic situation of the individual and the overall impact on growth and development of the Slovenian economy. Ladies and gentlemen, the two budgets presented today are ready to take into account the favourable economic situation and also the idea that state public finances should be prepared for the next establishment in the economic cycle. Above all, it is necessary to ensure a prudent growth in expenditure to contribute to sustainable economic growth and to create an appropriate fiscal space that will enable the country to take appropriate action and mitigate the negative consequences that have arisen at the next establishment in the economic cycle. The latter can be achieved mainly through two measures, a faster reduction in deficits and a faster reduction in government and sector debt than the whole on the one hand and by making changes to ensure long-term sustainable public financial expenditure consistent with the economic power of the country. Therefore, the time of favourable economic conditions is not a time for rest, but rather a time for directing the provision of long-term sustainable public finances. If, in recent years during the crisis, we have generally equipped the budget debate with warnings that measures should be provided to limit the growth of public finances in the short term, we must today focus our attention on measures, reforms with long-term effects. Even at a time when the impact of the upcoming parliamentary elections is already felt, or that is why this dimension of our shared responsibility should also be highlighted in the budget debate. I wish you a constructive debate on both budgets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u5	Thank you. The draft amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 and the updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2019 were considered by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as the parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chair of the Committee of Mrs Urški Ban.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u6	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, ministers with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is at its 83rd and 84th urgent meeting. 11 and 11. 11. 2017 The updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2019 and the Proposal for amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 was considered as the parent working body. Both proposals were submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. In addition to the two draft budgets, the Committee took note of the letter from the Advocate for Equality, the two replies from the Ministry of Finance to the letter from the Advocate for the principle of equality, the materials of the Advocate for the principle of equality distributed to members at the meeting, the opinion of the Council of State, the opinion of the Council of Justice and the letters from the Council of Justice with the proposal for amendments and the letter from the Municipality of Šentjur to Celje. The Committee received 34 amendments to the draft budget for 2019 and 43 amendments to the draft amending budget for 2018. One amendment was incorrectly tabled and one amendment withdrawn. The amendments to both proposals were tabled by the Left Party, the SDS Group of Ambassadors, the Group of Non-Aligned Members of Parliament and the NSI Group of Members. Representatives of the Government, the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development and the Advocate of the principle of equality participated in the meetings of the Committee. The initial explanation of the Proposal for amending the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 was given at the meeting of the Committee by the Minister, who presented the substantial changes. In doing so, it stressed the improvement of macroeconomic circumstances and presented the priorities of the draft budget on the expenditure side, namely investment in infrastructure in general, science and employment, quality of health services and safety in the broadest sense. She said that there would be a surplus of around €50 million in 2018, allowing the accelerated fiscal consolidation and the pursuit of the objective of structural balance in public finances to continue. It further presented the drawing-up of European funds and said that 54% of the revenue collected would be received by the municipalities and an increased share of the non-refundable investment transfer in the area of investment financing. The following presented the successful servicing of public debt. An opinion was presented by the interested working body, namely the Committee on Foreign Policy, which drew attention to the reduction in funding for the OECD Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Membership, which is on the budget line for economic diplomacy. The Director of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development did not have any additional comments on the presentation already given at the time of the consideration of the draft budget for 2019, given the fact that there are no major changes in economic developments, both in Slovenia and in the international environment. In its opening remarks, the representative of the State Council presented a written report from the State Council, which does not support the proposal for amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018, setting out the reasons and, above all, highlighted problems at local level, such as the question of the size of the average and investment in municipalities. In its introduction, the Advocate of the principle of equality presented the functioning of the institution, its tasks and the current financial situation, which, despite the increase in budgetary resources, would not agree with, as it would provide only half of the necessary resources for the operation of that institution, which is regulated by a specific law. In the debate, the members and members of the Committee highlighted the problematic structure of the draft budget, where its vision and objectives are not visible. They asked about the sale of NLB and the impact of the various scenarios on the proposal to amend the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 and pointed out that Slovenia does not yet have a document such as the development strategy. The issue of drawing on European cohesion funds and the provision of funds for the Triglav National Park provided for in the law was highlighted. In particular, the employment of young people and the resolution of the first housing problem, student work and the care of the elderly and nursing homes have been exposed. A question was raised regarding the agreement on salaries in the public sector and on the financing of municipalities. As a problem, property policy has been exposed as Slovenia does not yet have a tax on property and real estate and not a tax on capital. In the debate, some members and members also said that the proposal for amending the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 was development-oriented, as it was a project way of drawing up the draft budget, and stressed that it was important priorities such as investment in infrastructure, science, safety and health, of course, all within the scope of the options. It is encouraging to increase both average wages and employment and reduce social transfers as a result of economic growth. The right to a child allowance will also be granted to those parents who, according to income, belong to the seventh and eighth income classes. During the debate and at the end of the debate, the Minister of Finance and the Secretary of State provided additional clarifications on questions raised by Members. At the end of the discussion, the Committee also discussed the amendments tabled, which it did not support. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted a decision to take note of and support the draft amending the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018. In its opening presentation to the updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2019, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance presented, in particular, amendments to the amended proposal, which refers to additional funds provided for investments in primary schools at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport amounting to EUR 3 million. This meeting was also attended by the Advocate for the principle of equality, who considered that the funds allocated to him were too low and not sufficient for the functioning of an independent and independent body. Some of the members and members of the Committee were critical to the document under consideration, namely, that the budget documents were non-solid and that there were too many funds for defence related to NATO and the European Union. They considered that there was insufficient funding for the Advocate of the principle of equality, social, health care, long-term care, pensions, education, including urgent integration with the economy. These areas were also reflected in the contents of the amendments tabled to the 2019 Supplemental Draft Budget of the Republic of Slovenia. In the context of the debate, a proposal was also made to amend the structure of budgetary documents in the future, which would allow for a more precise electronic view of individual budget items. In the debate, the State Secretary provided a comprehensive explanation, an unexposed dilemma and questions raised by the debaters. After the discussion, the Committee identified itself to the amendments and did not support them. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted a decision to support the 2019 updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u7	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, to her mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u8	Thank you for your word. The president, the minister, the ministers, nice greeting! What did the President tell us about the documents before us today about the budgets for 2018 and 2019? In fact, there is only one difference between Saturday and today that he has changed his mind and that the coalition will support an amendment of 3 million to provide additional funds for sports infrastructure. Nice, but it might be right to say under what pressure it has been able to do this since Saturday, when the coalition voted against, to this day, from Friday to today. But anyway, except the government once told us that in 2050 we'd all be happy, she didn't tell us how to get this happiness. I expected that in the budgets for 2018 and 2019, there would be steps towards this long-term happiness, and unfortunately that is not the case. In both documents, I still miss the goals of individual programmes, the vision of what money can accomplish. We are still talking only about indices, but only about millions of increases, although there has been a huge forecast of this coalition, that there will be a lot to be done in the programme budget or that we will bring the programme budget to life, and unfortunately that is not the case. These are the last two budgets of this government, so I would expect even more optimism, some forecast of what we can expect in our country. The fact is, the situation is good. The fact is that the economy is growing by more than 4% forecast, and the government should therefore be more optimistic. Because it has much more money than it has in the past, on the other hand there is much less need, but it does not appear from these two budgets. Not only will I be in words — what people often tell us, that we can use words to start populism, but numbers do not give it — I will also back up my claims with words. In our Group of Members, we have decided not to support the budgets. But it is no rare thing, after all, it is the Government and the coalition that must ensure that the state has the budget. At the outset, I would like to say that the biggest losers of these two budgets, the 2018 changes we have on the table and for 2019, are pensioners – why? Because the Government still does not give them all or release all austerity measures, the pensioners are still subject to restrictions. 80 million euros earmarked for pensions and pensioners in the adopted budget is taken by the Government, that is a fact. 80 this year, 80 in 2018, this together means 160 million or about 300 euros per pensioner, and therefore I believe that pensioners are the biggest losers of the budget that we currently have on the table. But we're going in the right order. As I have already said, the situation in the country is very different. Today we are recording high economic growth, and it is also logical that we have a lot of inflows. In the state budget in 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019 there are approximately EUR billion of more money each year than in those times of crisis in 2013 and 2014. If we look at the comparison in 2014 and 2018, we see that today there are 400 more tax revenues in the budget. A billion 400! That's as much as a state pension budget. That's as much as the state budget for education. This is more than a state budget for all social transfers. A billion 400! And what did you manage to do with that one billion and a half? You have managed to raise funds for salaries, you have managed to raise funds for expenditure on goods and services, or material costs, and have managed to reduce interest, which is good, investment funds, which in these good economic times can also be smart, and the biggest reduction you have managed to provide to pensioners – 330 million less will be made available to Slovenian pensioners in 2018 compared to 2014. These are the numbers that are included in government documents. Three categories that have experienced the greatest reduction: investments, interest and far maximum, 330 million, pensions. [[advertising from the hall]] Even four times if you have to. You have an income of 400 more, you have reduced your expenditure in these three large categories, investments, interest and pensions, by almost 800 million euros. And yes, you have reduced the budget deficit, which is not a problem at all, but you still have almost 900 million euros left compared to 2014. Almost 900 million euros! What have you achieved with these 900 million euros? 10 million there, 10 million there, 50 million there, raises there, but the goal of what we're going to do with the extra money you've distributed is simply not. Yes, two large categories, once again, you have raised wages or expenses for salaries and raised expenses for material expenses. If I take this into account, 500 million are distributed in the budget just like that, without some major objectives. If we look at how much the state budget gives for pensions – I deliberately deal with pensions because there is a lot of talk about how much someone has provided to our Slovenian pensioners in the past years, however we turn, in the share of tax revenues, in the share of gross domestic product is what the state budget today spends on pensions, 330 million less. A quarter of the tax revenues had to be paid by the Government in 2014 for pensions in order not to reduce pensions. It wasn't easy, but yeah, we did. Today, in an excellent economic situation with much more money, the Government will not find the 20 million-euro fights to finally stop austerity measures in pensioners. Even more, money already provided for pensions, both in 2017 80 million and in the budget adopted – if you confirm it, you will reduce the money already provided to pensioners and pensioners by 80 million euros. And at the same time, you still hope to implement anti-crisis measures on pensioners, although the crisis has long been gone. As I said, whatever we look at, it should be a share in tax revenue, which is a stable source of budget, that it should be a share of the gross domestic product, however we turn, of the state budget allocated to pensioners, is falling. Yes, the situation is much better today, the income of PIZ is significantly higher, so less money is needed, it is true, but in the end we could say that the crisis is over, anti-crisis measures must cease to apply to all, including pensioners. The Government of Mira Cerar is still drawing on some of these crisis measures, even in 2018 and 2019, and for 2020 it is forecasting in some documents that there will be no more of these measures. As I said, however we turn around, there is a drastic reduction in the funds earmarked for pensioners and pensions, both from the state budget and if we look at the entire cash register as well as the share of GDP. We give less for the pensioners today if we look at the data in the gross domestic product, as the country gave in those most critical times in 2013 and 2014. Once again, I would like to make it clear which pensioners will be deprived of their budget by this budget and this law on the implementation of the budget. The Act provides that the regress, the annual allowance, shall be paid at two levels, the amount shall be determined each year in the law on the implementation of the budget. Here, too, it might be right that this height is, as a percentage of the lowest pension base or in any other way, determined by the system law, for then no one could tell them what he had given the pensioners or what he had provided them. But the government is still proposing this annual supplement at five altitudes. Of course, we have tabled an amendment that has been rejected, including the votes of Desus has been rejected. In this picture, it is clear that pensioners with a pension of 550 euros or more get less than they got before the crisis and less than our proposal. If a pensioner with 550 euros is a rich pensioner, that's why it's social justice, as some have convinced me, then it's someone else's idea. I am confident that people with 550 euros of pensions are far from rich and far from being anti-crisis measures in these times. The pensioners are divided into five categories in the budget implementation law, from the highest to the lowest, and all pensioners with a pension of 780 euros and more will be deprived by a government proposal of 170 euros, all of 650 to 700 euros will be reduced by 120 euros and all of 550 to 650 will be reduced by 60 euros of the annual allowance. It is therefore possible to appeal once again that, in the light of all that has been said and given the truly good economic situation that we can enjoy, to shrink species and to ensure that pensioners do not have to be saved. We have tabled several amendments in our parliamentary group. On the boards, everyone has been rejected, but no matter what, we will vote on everyone again today, and I appeal to you to reconsider how and what. In the case of pensioners, I would like to remind you that the money in the adopted budget is provided, for this and more, these are the facts. As I said at the outset, with this budget in our parliamentary group we are not satisfied, we will not support it, but it is also no news, the government, the coalition will support and implement the budget as it thinks it is right. However, I would like Slovenia to have a more ambitious government in the next term, a better vision that will be able to set the right goals.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Dr László Göncz will present the position of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u10	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! We estimate that the draft amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 and the updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2019 are fully acceptable and will therefore receive our support. It must be recognised that the measures taken in recent years in the area of public financial recovery have generally been positive. Although this is less discussed today, it is worth mentioning that the current state, a slightly better state, has undoubtedly helped to adopt a fiscal rule. It is clear that, above all, the current situation has been positively affected by favourable economic conditions or by the results of the recent period, primarily due to true and healthy approaches and the diligence of our economic operators, workers, craftsmen, tourism workers, producers in agricultural and other spheres. However, it is also a fact that the Government's bargaining with the social partners on public sector wages has been successful in some areas, despite the fact that some pressing matters are still open. Without mentioning specific cases, I would like to point out only the need to continue looking for better solutions for the most vulnerable segments of the population, although this may not be a direct issue in the context of the budgetary debate, but it is certainly important to keep this in mind. Since we are ahead of the election year, it is so much harder to predict to what extent the proposed budgets will be sustainable. There are more potential unknowns for 2019, while the budget for next year could be more stable. Unforeseeable domestic and international circumstances make it less optimal at this time, any changes or difficulties in terms of their impact on the state budget will have to be addressed in the opposite direction. From the point of view of the national communities, the proposed budgets are correct. The specific assets on items and sub-items of activities which are essential for the existence and development of these communities are approximately at the level of this year's implementation. In some cases, the above headings for the symbolic shade are higher. We believe that the Government has kept the promise and is the proposed level of resources to a satisfactory extent, which means only that the funds have not decreased. However, it should also be pointed out with all seriousness that the situation in the field of nationality, media and cultural activities has nevertheless become worrying as the current volume of resources does not objectively allow developmental orientation. For the third year, I have been repeating the conclusion that, since the start of the financial and economic crisis, the money for the needs of the national community has not changed, and in some cases, for example in the area of culture, even a significant reduction has taken place in the most critical period of crisis. In doing so, we stress that it is only by ensuring the current level that this problem cannot be rectified. Let me also stress the need to welcome the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology's approach to a flexible approach to providing support for the economic base of indigenous communities and the very corrective attitude of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport in the search for quantitative and qualitative solutions for upgrading existing school models, in particular in terms of improving the level of language competences of teaching staff in national or bilingual education. Finally, we have found on the Commission for National Communities that more attention will have to be paid to the development of indigenous national communities in the near future also in terms of financial support if the concern about the continued existence and development of national communities is sincere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Ms Urška Ban will present the position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u12	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Once again a nice greeting from my side! Today, we have two draft budgets for the next two years or more precisely the draft amending budget for 2018 and the draft budget for 2019. The budgetary debate itself in the National Assembly has been practically ongoing since the beginning of October, when the President of the Government and the Minister of Finance briefed us on the budgetary memorandum. The budget package was thus given a lot of attention within two months to the working bodies of the National Assembly and, of course, to the general public. It is important to draw attention to all aspects, both on the good side and on the bad side, and not only on the political side, but sometimes on the basis of a lot of populist proposals and discussions. In particular, it is necessary to have responsible and realistic actions that will result in an improvement in the material situation of citizens and citizens. This was our commitment at the time of this mandate and is reflected in both budget proposals. Therefore, our lead in the preparation of this time budget documents was to ensure the continued stability of public finances, which can be the only real basis for the country's stable economic and social development, which is an additional challenge a few months before the elections. Despite the great wishes that have also been encouraged by the favourable real and forecasted macroeconomic situation, it is crucial that we maintain the overall scope of public spending within the framework which, according to the economic power of our country, we can also sustainably finance. We must also be aware of the fact that the fiscal consolidation has not yet been completed. We have written down the objective of achieving structural balance by 2020, so the objective will be achieved gradually, ensuring a balance on the one hand between fiscal consolidation and support for further economic development. Faster public financial consolidation, which calls for a sharper limitation of the expenditure of the state budget, could lead to a contraction of economic activity, which we have already witnessed in the past. We therefore estimate that the combination of measures that, on the one hand, promote economic activity and, on the other hand, limit public financial expenditure gives the right balance. That this path is the right path, the results also show. We are pleased to have today, after a decade of red numbers on the table, the first two budgets, which record a budget surplus in both years. This is a reflection of the responsible part of our government, which also results in numbers. The country's debt from a good 80% of GDP in 2014 will fall to a good 71% of GDP in 2018, resulting from a significantly lower budget deficit and the correction of this deficit in 2018. On the basis of the European Commission's latest forecast of November 2017, this debt will be even lower than the euro area average. Why is that? The government is directing higher revenues planned in 2018 and 2019 towards faster deficit reduction and only a small part to increase expenditure. The overall level of integral expenditure remains practically the same, their structure is changing. By accelerating the deficit reduction and by accelerating the debt reduction of the country's sector, as well as the long budget, we are creating the conditions that we will be more prepared to expect the next crisis. In line with the reduction of the deficit and the creation of the budget surplus in 2018 and 2019, budgetary expenditure in the share of gross domestic product is reduced to a level lower than that of 2008 when it was 22 % of GDP. Since 2013, when GDP expenditure was at 26 %, it has decreased to 21 % of GDP in 2018 and to 20 % in 2019. This is certainly the result of the prudent policy of the government's targeted actions and, last but not least, the favourable macroeconomic situation, and our objective remains that, through the budgetary documents, we also provide adequate financial support for programme and development content and measures that promote further growth and the promotion of economic and investment potential and competitiveness, on the one hand and on the other, the maintenance of a fair social balance. From this point of view, they are priorities: investing in infrastructure for better quality of life and work, investing in science and employment, strengthening the quality of health services, increasing safety in the broadest sense. For all these priority areas in both years, we together spend 5.4 billion euros, that is, more money than we have so far. The fundamental visions or fundamental objectives provided by the Government in the context of the fiscal consolidation that is the basis for the country's stable economic and social development are reflected in the areas in which the main additional resources available are targeted. Allow me now to briefly touch on the priorities covered by both budget documents. The first and still priority is to implement health reform in 2018 and 2019. Following the adoption of the Law on intervention measures to ensure the financial stability of public health institutions, the Government adopted a decision to draw up a proposal for measures that will allow the price of health services to rise in 2018, which will have a positive impact on the functioning of public health institutions in the long term. We will continue to work towards the adoption of a new Health and Health Insurance Act, which brings significant structural changes in the management of the healthcare and insurance system. The changes concern, inter alia, supplementary health insurance, legal arrangements and compulsory health insurance obligations, while the basket of rights and the standard of rights guaranteed by compulsory health insurance will not be reduced. The status of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia is being regulated, a new way of negotiating with operators and arrangements for monitoring the implementation of compulsory insurance. An important part of the changes concerns ways and sources of funding. Here it is worth stressing that there is more funding for health, including from the State budget, which is based on the legislation adopted in this mandate, which provides that the State budget gradually assumes the financing of certain services which are not basically health services and are currently financed from health bills. The financing of traineeships, specialisations and post-transitional research in the field of health is also under way. During the crisis, the health treasury has shown certain weaknesses, which is a high dependence on economic trends, on the level of income derived from social security contributions which depend on the level of income of individual insurers and on the level of employment. In order to reduce these fluctuations, the Government has decided to transfer certain costs other than the costs of implementing health services to the state budget. The state budget will allocate €40 million in 2018 and €60 million in 2019. In order to reduce the waiting lines, the state budget in 2018 is projected to be €18 million, bringing health care resources in 2018 and 2019 to a much higher level than those in previous years’ budgets, in 2018 at almost €170 million and in 2019 161 million. Therefore, health care resources are more than duplicated in terms of implementation in 2016 and in terms of previous years. Furthermore, in the programme areas, the most resources are planned in transport and transport infrastructure, which is one of the key conditions for the balanced development of Slovenia, as it allows for the proper provision of the economy and the mobility of the population. Therefore, one of the major priorities in the planning of the budget is the upgrading and modernisation of rail infrastructure and road links, which ensures the equitable development of the regions and contributes to better quality of life and work. One of the biggest investment projects planned to take place over the next two years is, of course, the new railway connection Divaca-Koper. The means of transport and transport infrastructure shall be the highest in the last ten years, with the exception of 2015. In 2018 at 773 million, in 2019 758 million. The projects, which will be jointly financed by budgetary resources as national priorities over the next two years, are, if I only mention three, the upgrade of the rail section of the Zidani Bridge-Celje, the second phase of EUR 110 million, the construction of the second track of Maribor-Sentil, the second phase of EUR 74 million and the reconstruction of the Prague Railway Station of EUR 62 million. The developmental orientation of the 2018 and 2019 budgets also confirms the investment funds. In view of the years 2016 and 2017, several resources are allocated to investment expenditure and transfers. Compared to the evaluation of this year's implementation, investments and investment transfers are increasing significantly in the coming year. At the time of this government's mandate, it has also happened for the first time that funds in the field of transport infrastructure are provided solely for investments and that we cover the ongoing maintenance of transport infrastructure from integrated means. The budget is also developed by investing a high level of resources for science and the information society. By measures to promote innovation and technologically advanced products and services, we want to contribute to increasing the competitiveness and added value of the economy. European cohesion funds in the field of investment in science and the information society will thus focus on strengthening research infrastructure and promoting investment by public research organisations and companies in research and development and centres of excellence. The financing of these areas is primarily aimed at improving international competitiveness and excellence in research, improving the use and development of research infrastructure, improving research capacities, promoting the implementation of research programmes, financing researchers at the start of their careers and effectively integrating into international research programmes, including Horizon 2020. As a result, greater use will be made of the research potential of researchers and their international mobility and mobility between the academic and entrepreneurial spheres. There will also be greater integration in the fields of science, cultural and creative industries and economies. Integral resources for science are allocated to the basic funding system. The funding for this area has been highest in the last six years, amounting to EUR 276 million in 2018 and EUR 321 million in 2019. The funds for science and the information society are thus even nominally higher than 2008. In the policy of education and sport, the government will pursue the objective of providing accessible and quality education and education for all in 2018 and 2019. Higher education and scientific research will be strengthened. It will also follow the objective of integrated growth and development of sport for all. For education and sport policy, the budget for 2018 and 2019 will provide €1.7 billion. The amount of 2019 appropriations shall take into account the 2019 supplementary budget, which increases investment in primary schools by an additional EUR 3 million. The level of these funds has been one of the highest in six years. In the area of entrepreneurship promotion and competitiveness, the objective of maintaining and increasing economic growth and competitiveness is pursued by developing the company's competences and capacities and responding to societal challenges. In addition, it aims to accelerate the establishment, growth and development and to improve the international competitiveness of enterprises, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, create an attractive business environment for the establishment and operation of businesses, and investment for the development of the economy, raise entrepreneurial culture and awareness of the importance of creativity, entrepreneurship and innovation, develop the internal market, increase external trade, internationalisation, promote tourism development, link culture and natural heritage with tourism and develop creative industries. The funds for this area have been at the highest level since 2013. Thus, in 2018 these funds will amount to 144 million and in 2019 they will amount to 145 million euros. The biggest increase in resources is in growth and enterprise development programmes, support for small and medium-sized enterprises and incentives for new businesses and their growth. The increase in resources for economic infrastructure and development centres needs to be mentioned. Certainly, the key business environment to promote entrepreneurship and competitiveness is to promote domestic and foreign investment, and Slovenia has recently become a success story, including by obtaining the first greenfield investments. The economic situation in Slovenia is improving and the number of unemployed is also declining over the years. This reduced the number of unemployed to 83 000 unemployed in October 2017. Of course, there are indications that many people have moved from Slovenia, but it is necessary to look at how many people have also moved to Slovenia. During the whole period from 2007 to 2016, more had been moved than had been relocated from Slovenia. The unemployment rate in Slovenia will be significantly lower than the euro area average on the basis of the European Commission's latest forecasts of this November 2018 and 2019. Thus, in 2018 the unemployment rate in Slovenia will be 5.9%, in the euro area 8.5% and in 2019 in Slovenia will be 5.2%, while in the euro area it will be 7.9%. Given that the number of unemployed has decreased, fewer resources are needed each year for the labour market and working conditions. However, they remain well above pre-crisis levels in 2018 and 2019. The measures in the labour market are aimed at increasing employment and raising the employment rate of the population, aimed at increasing employment, with particular emphasis on targeting vulnerable groups in the labour market, long-term unemployed, among whom older unemployed and under-educated are dominated. With regard to the level of social security, it should be stressed that this State budget maintains a high level of social security, which is higher than pre-crisis funds and higher than in 2013-2015. The maximum increase in funding by amending the 2018 budget is to be seen in the Family Receipts and Parental Remuneration Programme. As of January 2018, one of the austerity measures will be released, returning the children's allowance for the 7th and 8th income classes. If I conclude slowly, the poor state of public finances with a budget gap that has failed to patch up and the government of Alenka Bratušek does not rule in front of it, so it runs out. With the exceptional fiscal efforts made by the Government of Mir Cerar, we conclude our mandate by adopting budgets that will allow budgetary surpluses both in 2018 and 2019. The budgets therefore close the period of our successful work, which is reflected in all the measures taken that follow the direction of fiscal consolidation. The final balance sheet of the Government of Mir Cerar is the state budgets that are ahead of us today. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we believe that the proposals of the budgets under consideration for 2018 and for 2019 provide an appropriate financial basis for all the programming orientations of our country that we have set ourselves, so we will support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u14	Dear President, Honourable Minister of Finance, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a proposal for amending the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 and a proposal for an updated draft budget for the Republic of Slovenia for 2019. Initially, we will not support in the Slovenian Democratic Party the draft amending the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 and not the updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2019. We will not support them for a number of reasons, I will say more further, but we are particularly convinced that the draft amending budget for 2018 and the updated draft budget for the Republic of Slovenia for 2019 are not such stories of success as they are in some way trying to present both the President of the Government and the Minister of Finance and, last but not least, in the positions of the coalition parties, the parties of the modern centre, the Social Democrats and Desus. This is also based on the discussion that coalition members and Members have carried out on the Committee on Finance and on other committees interested in the draft amending the 2018 budget and the 2019 budget. Initially, we would like to say that this is not a success story in the Fiscal world. The Fiscal Council of the Republic of Slovenia gave its opinion and the Fiscal Council, following a review of macroeconomic forecasts and forecasts of public financial developments, estimates that the budget documents submitted are only partially in line with the fiscal rules in force during a period in which Slovenia has not yet reached its medium-term fiscal objective. Therefore, not only in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, but also in the Fiscal Council, it is estimated that the budget documents submitted are only partially in line with fiscal rules. The Fiscal Council also estimates that the structural effort for 2017 and 2019 according to current data is not sufficient. The Slovenian economy has been growing for the fourth consecutive year and, as a result, the country's revenues are growing. It should be said that the government of Mira Cerar and the coalition, the Modern Centre Party, the Social Democrats and Desus, are operating under significantly better conditions than they were for the government in 2012, 2013 and not least for the government that operated in 2014. This government and coalition have more than €1 billion in higher budgetary revenues. More than €1 billion in higher budget revenues. And if we know that the approximate revenue per year in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia is somewhat more than €9 billion, we can imagine that this represents more than 10% in the structure of total revenue more, and these are figures that should be known elsewhere, not only in the expenditure structure itself. We believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that it is positive that we have economic growth, but we should also feel better about the economic situation of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia in our wallets. Of course, there is no such thing as our conduct. We will also see below how this government and this coalition have prepared a draft amending the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 and for 2019. If we could not talk about the success story of this budget and that this bloom is not as brilliant as it seems, I would suggest that we spend as much of what we have created as soon as possible. It is worth noting that Slovenia's gross domestic product last year at real value, if accounted for by inflation, has still not reached the level from the pre-crisis year 2008. It also shows that the country's indebtedness is still above the Maastricht criteria, although it should be stressed that at least its share of the gross domestic product has begun to decline. While the real value of Slovenia's gross domestic product is still around 2% lower than in the pre-crisis year 2018, the euro area has achieved 3% growth over the period, and all eight European Union countries have reached 5.1% growth. This may mean that some countries from the east are catching up, especially here we have in mind Poland, Slovakia, Bulgaria, Romania, the Czech Republic and Estonia, and many Western countries are increasing their advantage over us. It must be said that in the four years of the reign of Mira Cerar, tax revenues have increased by about one fifth and that this will hardly be sufficient for a balanced budget in 2018. Today, both by the President of the Government and the Minister of Finance, we have heard several times about the success story that after 2008 when Slovenia had its first budget surplus – and it should be stressed that this was at the time of the government of Janez Janša – now this amendment foresees a surplus in 2018. However, this surplus of around €51 million is solely due to one case and solely due to a single event, an inflow of more than €200 million from the European Union. This means that the story of the success of the budget surplus is not primarily the work of this government, but that it was mainly a one-time event of European spending of more than 200 million euros. There is something else to point out, here we are talking about the draft amending budget for 2018 and there is no guarantee that this budget will actually have a surplus. Last thing we can say, the Republic of Slovenia has had only one surplus in the budget so far, and this was in 2008 during the government of Janez Janša. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that, given the economic environment and the economic conditions currently prevailing both in Slovenia and in the European Union, in Europe and the world, the government of Mira Cerar and the coalition would be expected to show their surplus in the budget already in 2017. We believe that the macroeconomic and microeconomic environment and consequently the growth of the economy are leading to the fact that the budget should have a surplus back in 2017, but provided that this government would carry out at least one of the health, tax reform, education reforms reforms in its 3.5-year operation. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that if the proposals and proposals for amendments to the laws that we have tabled in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group in this mandate were taken into account and if adopted by the Government, we would probably be able to talk about the budget surplus for 2017 at the end of this year. Unfortunately, however, this government has dealt mainly with other matters and not with reforms, and we can actually expect a deficit in 2017, which is certainly not in line with the economic environment currently in place in Slovenia, the European Union and Europe. We would also like to point out that many times we can hear that we are already on horseback, that Slovenia has come out of this crisis, but if that is true, we ask both the Minister of Finance and the Coalition whether then it is not time for certain tax burdens to begin to decline during the time of this government, both the economy and the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. However, the government of Mira Cerar and the coalition, the Modern Centre Party, the Social Democrats and Desus, both the economy and the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, despite the growth of revenue in the budget, is still burdening and additionally indebted. We have already stressed at the beginning of the mandate that this government will continue the policy of the previous governments, namely the policy of additional burdens on the economy and debt. A few more details on this below. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that with this government, public finances are intended primarily for public wages, pensions and interest payments, and for most of the rest, the government is running out of money for this government. Above all, we are convinced that the Government has given priority to budget expenditure primarily to its own benefit and to the comfort of other budget addicts. The costs of civil servants' salaries will thus be six times higher next year than they were in 2014, more than 17%, in the four years of the government of Mir Cerar, transfers to public institutions have increased, and most of these remittances are paid for employees' salaries. While the salaries of government officials and civil servants in public institutions were around 23% of the total expenditure of the state budget in 2014, the share of salaries will already reach 28% of the total budget expenditure next year. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we hope to say that everything that has created the economy in these years, during this crisis period, this government actually sings and drinks. The structure of the budget expenditure is substantially different from that of 2014. At the same time, it must also be said that the amount of expenditure is very similar to that in 2014, which means approximately EUR 9.6 billion. In doing so, the Slovenian Democratic Party would like to thank the entire economy and all those who are employed in the economy, because it is exclusively responsible and deserving that Slovenia today has more than a billion higher revenues. Unfortunately, however, this government spends these surpluses in inflows or these inflows, which are significantly higher than they were in 2012, 2013 and 2014, mainly for its own convenience. We have also heard many times that we could expect that the sovereign debt, given the significantly higher revenues we have in the budget, will be reduced. Unfortunately, however, this debt does not go down in the time of the government of Mira Cerar, but even increases. It should be stressed that the next year will indeed be around one fifth of the lower interest costs, but the country has over the last four years quite refinanced a nice share of the debts, and since the required yields are now lower than at the time of issue of the bonds, this ultimately also means a higher bond price. If we say this a little more plasticly, the country has decided to pay less interest now, but in the end it will have to repay less debt. If the state debt at the end of 2014 was 26 billion, by the middle of this year it had risen to around EUR 29 billion. The Minister has already stated on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy that the country has managed to reduce this debt by about a billion and a half in the interim period, but then when we add up the figures, it is clear that from 2014 until now the country has increased its debt but has not reduced it. Nor did the Minister provide a 100 % guarantee that the state will no longer be in debt by the end of this year. The state debt at the end of the year is expected to be around EUR 28.8 billion. This is also the main public debt, but not all of it, the public debt still consists of long municipalities, the state DUTB and SDH and other public institutions. The total public debt appears to exceed €33 billion. True, the share of gross domestic product has decreased slightly, but the population has increased by more than EUR 400 per capita. We have already said that if we excluded the impact of European funds for 2018, the budget of the Republic of Slovenia would be minus. It should also be stressed that investments during this government and these coalitions are significantly reduced. What also seems problematic to the Slovenian Democratic Party is that European funds are extremely poor and there is still a great potential for the Republic of Slovenia. As we have heard many times from ministers and ministers, the reason for the poorer use of European funds is mainly a problem in the information system, but we believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that this cannot be the case and that the poorer use of European funds is mainly due to the poor functioning of this government and this coalition. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the sustainability and stability of the pension fund, the pension system itself, is also becoming problematic. Now the government and the coalition spends significantly less money on the pension fund than in 2014. In 2014, more than € 1.65 billion were paid from the budget to the pension fund, which is now about €400 million lower. On the one hand, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we understand that in view of economic growth, higher numbers of employees are no longer required as high as they were in 2014, but something needs to be stressed in a different way, nowhere does it say that the Government or coalition can no longer put in the pension register. In particular, with regard to those defenders and pensioners and the pensioner of Desus, we can say that there are no obstacles here to spending more money on pensions. I would like to point out a good example, such as pensioners and others sending e-mails and alerts, just at the time of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, one of the pensioners sent: "Let me tell the Slovenian public, in 2014 I had €722 pension, today I have €17 more." The well-respected coalition, with more than one billion Euros of higher budget revenues, has indeed increased minimally. It's sad that, say, pensions are coordinated for two pints of ice cream. Above all, it was the characteristic of this government that there was an additional burden and an increase in taxes. We believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that value added tax could be reduced to a pre-crisis level. It must be said that this government has turned the provisional measure which has been issued, i.e. an increase in value added tax, into a permanent measure. Minister of Health Milojka Kolar placed in the official procedure a new health benefit and compensation for long-term care, which will affect and burden citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. We could say that this government and the coalition, in its entire term of office, celebrates in particular by trying to invent a new tax every month or every two months to further burden both the economy and the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. For example, Culture Minister Tone Peršak will tax the investments of state-owned companies which, at every investment, must buy more artistic works, we cannot overlook the attempt to further increase the RTV's mandatory subscription by this government and this coalition. It is also important to stress the great innovation in the invention of new taxes by the Infrastructure Minister Peter Gasperšič, as in the past, in how to patch up Slovenian roads at the expense of an additional cent for the price of petroleum derivatives, then how the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia would resolve the next investment in TES 6 by additional loading of re-oil derivatives or at the power station. Last but not least, we can now hear from the economic minister how he will raise the so-called green taxes or raise tourist taxes. This government has increased and increased tax rates from corporate income tax from 17% to 19% and is then significantly higher inflows. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we cannot help but point out what we have already pointed out on several occasions, as we also point out in the Committees, namely the inadmissibility of excise policy on the part of this government. Today we can see that the price of one litre of oil in Slovenia is about 20 cents higher than the cheapest litre of oil in the neighbouring Austria. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we do not understand that a thousand litres of the burning environment in Celovac costs 150 euros less than the cost of a thousand litres of the burning environment, either in Ljubljana or in Maribor or in Murski Sobota. The excise policy is inadequate, it is too high, not least we have not yet received an answer by the Government or by the Ministry of Economy, why the Ministry of Economy has decided to withdraw from its website the history of the structure of the price of petroleum derivatives and that we can no longer look at which taxes are additionally burdened and how this government has, for example, raised its excise duty after each month. Given the fact that the budgets for 2018 and 2019 are ahead of us, we absolutely cannot agree with the the thesis of the Minister of Finance on the Committee, namely that the events relating to the New Ljubljana Bank will have no impact on the 2018 and 2019 budget. We once again call – today we have two days of time both in the 2018 and 2019 budget – for the distinguished Minister to tell us what the plans are with the New Ljubljana Bank. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that any decision concerning the New Ljubljana Bank will have an impact on the 2018 and 2019 budget. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that this government has long decided not to sell the Nova Ljubljanska Bank. This is evident from the planned dividends for 2018 and 2019. It should be stressed that the Government plans dividend revenues for 2018 amounting to 241 million and slightly more than 230 million euros for 2019. In this respect, it should be pointed out that we recorded around €43 million in revenue from the dividends from the New Ljubljana Bank in 2017, with the New Ljubljana Bank creating some EUR 125 million of the balance sheet profit. Here you can see that the government is planning approximately the same income by dividends. We are confident that today we will have the opportunity to discuss and that the distinguished Minister of Finance will tell Members and Members of the general public what the plans are with the New Ljubljana Bank. Because in the Slovenian Democratic Party we are convinced that any decision regarding the New Ljubljana Bank will have an impact on the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, or on dividends or even – which would be scandalous for us, that in all of these recapitalisations we have had, given by the taxpayer’s money – the Government in Brussels is offering to pay a fine of EUR 340 million, so that we can still retain influence in the New Ljubljana Bank. This government is expected to pay 340 million for the fines of the New Ljubljana Bank, respected citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and this government does not find the necessary money for the collapse of the health system. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we also drew attention to the possibility of a heavy burden that could have hit Slovenia in 2018 and 2019 in connection with the removal of businesses without liquidation. The fact is that the European Court of Human Rights has decided to put this matter on the Grand Chamber, which means that there is a high probability that Slovenia will face a new heavy burden. The Minister of Justice himself said a long time ago that in the event of a negative decision for the Republic of Slovenia, this could mean more than a billion Euros of commitments in the coming years. In response from the Minister of Finance, however, we were able to hear that reservations in the case of lawsuits received by the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 and 2019 amount to only around EUR 100 million. In the course of today's debate, we will draw attention in the Slovenian Democratic Party to some of the problems that affect individual ministries. Here we have in mind the Ministry of Health and Health in the field of health in Slovenia. On the basis of today's statements by the Minister of Finance regarding the success of the health system, which we were able to listen to today in her opening address, I think it is a mockery of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. The Minister-General explained in the introduction how this government, through the funds invested in the health system, improved the efficiency of the health system and reduced waiting types. Dear Minister, I don't know now whether you are seriously deceiving Parliament or the general public, or whether you do not know what the actual situation is. It must be said that an intervention law has been made to resolve all public health establishments of more than EUR 125 million, mainly due to the inefficient management of these systems. Inefficient management is also a key health issue, as assessed by the Slovenian Democratic Party. In the opening speech, the Minister of Finance discusses the effectiveness of the health system in managing and reducing waiting types. We are convinced that this government is acting totally wrong, especially the Minister of Finance. We tried twice with her interpretation, but above all, the coalition, the Social Democrats and Desus, protected the Minister of Health, and today we have a collapse of the system. On conclusion, we have tabled 42 amendments to the 2018 budget in the Slovenian Democratic Party and for 2019. These amendments, we are confident, would contribute to better, more efficient management, greater investment, greater investment, and in particular to providing the necessary resources both in the field of defence and rescue for firefighters, for the police. We are convinced that these proposals we have put forward do not undermine the budgetary structure itself, or we have provided flows of resources from budget assumptions that continue to ensure sustainable development. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the budget drawn up by this government is, thank God, the last budget in this government's mandate, for 2018 and 2019, which will be addressed by the National Assembly, far from being targeted or development-oriented. We are convinced that regardless of economic growth, the problem is that these economic growth is not felt by citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia in their wallets. Finally, not only has the fiscal Council given a purely positive assessment of this draft budget, but it is particularly concerned that this government is reducing investment policy, development policy and that everything that has created the economy throughout the year is being used by this government primarily for its own convenience. Given that all the opposition's amendments have been rejected by the coalition on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, I am confident that, for the first time in history, the government and the coalition will not comply with or confirm any amendment proposed by the opposition throughout their term of office. Not a single amendment by the opposition. The distinguished Government, the distinguished Minister, the honourable Members and Members of the Modern Centre Party, Desus and the Social Democrats, is sad that you will always call for some cooperation throughout the four-year term of this mandate, but you will be the government and coalition, the first in the history of Slovenia, which will not confirm a single amendment of the opposition to the draft budget in its entire four-year term. Not one. And that speaks enough of your politics, of your faces. Once again, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group we will not support the 2018 budget or the 2019 budget. I am sure that in our introductory address, we have given the position enough reasons why we will not support you. In the course of today's debate and tomorrow's debate, which is foreseen for the 2018 budget and for 2019, I expect further clarifications mainly from the Minister of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Uroš Prikl will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u16	Thank you very much, dear colleague Hainz, distinguished minister, secretary of state, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! If I first point out that old rule or the fact that when we discuss and adopt budgets that no budget is ideal, I haven't actually said anything new. This also applies to the draft amending budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 and the updated draft budget for the following year or year 2019. However, the budgets mentioned this year have offered slightly more so-called manoeuvre space in the allocation of resources for individual areas. How many ransoms each minister or minister has bargained for his or her department is also a matter of bargaining power for an individual and the ability to plan and set individual priorities within the financial framework with which he or she has an individual department or ministry. The wishes of individuals, of course also of us Members, are generally greater than at the end of the space to achieve this in the budget, and, of course, an acceptable compromise must be reached in the end. In our Group of Members, we have clearly set priorities for the adoption of budgets which do not differ from one mandate to another and are not particularly different. First of all, this is a concern for the quality and dignity of pensioners. In our parliamentary group, we are convinced that there is little benefit in this area from partial measures and beautifying, which occur magically every year only when many awaken a sense of social justice and, of course, political arithmetic. This year's climate is so much more socialised when it comes to adopting budgets, because we are practically at the target level of this mandate and some of you really don't choose the means or ways of how and which social group would be more involved just in order to win a partial vote in the elections. In Desus, we are already used to the obvious, as we have not done anything in all these years, or have done too little for the pensioners, the standard story of a lower state transfer from the budget to the pension fund is already the same, and this year we were faced with an additional claim for an even greater amount for the annual allowance of pensioners, although I stress that this year again belongs to everyone without exception. Your Honor, it is not too much to repeat some of the facts that some of you deliberately hear, are being questioned, and citizens and citizens are being gravely deceived. This year, we started with a regular harmonisation of pensions of 1,15 %, which is more than a harmonisation of pensions under the provisions of the current PPIZ-2. The upward trend will continue in the coming year, twice in January and April, with extraordinary reconciliation of pensions. Let me say that the percentage of coordination will be slightly higher than it has been in the last few years. It is also true that in this mandate, after a drought of five years when there were no coordinations, we began to coordinate pensions. Above all, it is important to highlight the fact that this mandate has put a stop to the real decline in the value of pensions. Both the nominal and, of course, the real increase in pensions will make us, we are firm and firm in this, we will continue to do so in the future. You can hold us to that. The pensioners will also receive higher amounts of the annual allowance, regression, if you want, and until then all pensioners are entitled, as it were said, regardless of the amount of their pension. This year we have also increased the minimum full-time pension, and this is just the beginning of the final goal that each pensioner will receive a decent life pension for his past work, giving up and contributing to the construction of this company. The lower state transfers to the pension register are, of course, a sign that we are on the right track, as it is already feeling the consequences of economic recovery, higher employment, resulting in higher income from paid contributions. It is also a pension reform from a few years ago that has already produced certain and expected effects. It is true that our focus is more focused on that group of pensioners who receive lower pensions and need our help more to survive with dignity, but this does not seem to be a dispute. On the contrary, because we have not yet fully responded to the most alarming problems, such as poverty among the older population. Problems such as poverty among the older generation must be addressed as soon as possible and as effectively as possible. The same can be said of the social and health situation. Only financial injections without systemic solutions are not sufficient, as they will only temporarily attach the patch to a fresh wound. In the long run, we will have to face ever-increasing expenses for the elderly. The ageing society is not only an example in the Republic of Slovenia, but it is a challenge for the whole of Europe. The more important question is how the country – and I will conclude – will be able to respond in a timely manner and offer appropriate solutions that will in practice highlight the intergenerational co-existence without jeopardising the public financial balance. In the Desus Group, we firmly believe that key answers to these questions and challenges must be offered in the Demographic Fund Act, which we have been working hard to implement in the Desus Group since the beginning of the mandate. As it is said, given that this budget answers key questions, it is sufficiently optimistic, and we will also support it in the Desus Group. Thank you very much and an apology for a little longer implementation.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Han will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Minister! We are before the hearing, I believe, the most important and for this government of final financial documents, the budgets for 2018 and 2019. Why the most important? Because without some unnecessary political potential, it is necessary to be aware when adopting the budget that words, expectations, intentions, or flossules are unfortunately, or thank God they are falling away because it is money, it is numbers and it is an exact framework. Of these there will be or will not be a real programme framework for this government, even more, more than we can imagine, depending on the quality of life of our citizens and citizens. These expectations are justifiably high at the time of economic growth and these expectations are not that we have to, but we have to excuse them if we know that the budgets of the crisis droughts have been tightening where people have felt it. The objectives of this government at the time of the launch of the mandate were two: political and financial stability and the promotion of economic growth. So far, she has been relatively successful. It also insists on fiscal consolidation and the promotion of economic growth, as is clear from the budget memorandum. The government is therefore successful at the two goals it has set. Most will agree that, without sound finances and healthy economic growth, there is no other way. That, believe me, hold. If the state does not manage its financial resources and expenditure, it does not have the tools to operate. If it does not invest in a way that could strengthen, grow and develop, it ignores its fundamental mission. However, when this fundamental order is established, we have the right and duty to look beyond the next elections and to think beyond the framework of the Brussels bureaucrat mantra on stability and growth. It seems that all Europe is thinking about these two and only these two. That she's willing to sacrifice a lot of things for her. Of course, stability and economic growth are important because they are, in some ways, prerequisites, but they are forgotten about my concepts and our client's key issue of what stability and growth are for. Are these the final objectives, as the financial markets, the European Commission, international bankers or capital elites believe, or are they the means that must be used to benefit people? We believe in social democrats in particular as a second option, so we will always stress the importance of stability and growth, but at the same time we will always warn that we need growth and stability because of people and not the other way around. Financial stability for us means that the country has sufficient resources to carry out its tasks, not only to exist, but also to take measures to make decisions sovereignly and without dictatorships from Europe. The country also reduces its debt through this budget and creates even a surplus after many years, but we must not forget why it is so - because we had to adopt strict limits on the fiscal rule that require the country to align everything with a levelling budget and a low national debt. These are circumstances we can't go through. Therefore, this budget, as well as for the following year, is considered that if we want this proposal to differ significantly, the way in which the country operates and how the state achieves its objectives will have to be changed. Anyone who wants an essentially different budget must propose a simple and feasible way to achieve this. Growth in economic activity and created is of course important, so it is not only important for the Social Democrats how much growth this will be, how much growth will be and how will most people have from this growth. If part of economic growth is reflected in rising housing prices and ordinary people cannot buy them, then it is not healthy growth. If people have to pay dear health care to private people while public health is suffocating in debt and waiting types, of course this is known to GDP. It's hard for anyone to say it's good for the country and its people. These are trends that we must all observe together, and it is possible to ignore them if you choose to observe only goals, but not paths. This does not mean that economic growth is not important. On the contrary, at least two reasons are that its promotion must remain one of the highest priorities of this and also of future governments. The first is the fact that the economic downturn was so great that it was not until then that we were approaching the economic activity of 2008. Second was the fact that economic growth, i.e. gross domestic product growth, is linked to the type of restrictions and tightening imposed as anti-crisis measures. Many of them have been severely affected, some of whom need to be honestly asked whether their introduction was meaningful or legal. However, I believe that the economy, which is the main engine of the country, has sufficient room for even greater development. But a period is coming, and some also remind us that governments will be under extreme pressure to start limiting growth, especially where it is not healthy and presents a risk, to inflate new anti-crisis balloons. But let us not blind ourselves, my dears, to those who live in balloons, it is not in the interest of these balloons to rest, to those who wish to take advantage, nor is it in the interest of them. The great challenge for the future, therefore, remains how to maintain stability and promote growth, but not to forget two, stability serves to enable us to agree in peace on the necessary changes and to make sovereign decisions that are good for our country. We believe that the budget is in line with the objectives of the government and stability and growth. We welcome the Minister's efforts to increase funds in almost all budgetary areas. Above all, they are increasing in science, but, of course, there would be more growth, in safety, in health, in infrastructure, there will also be more resources for key projects, many of which are connected to people, and there will also be more resources in the public sector to free up certain things and to re-engage because in official work we need young people with a new vision. We are also pleased that the Social Democrats have managed to combat the elimination of some anti-crisis measures and restrictions, among them certainly the cost-recovery of 45 000 families in the 7th and 8th income classes, because we are convinced that, despite talking about the government's budget, the individual minister must accept responsibility and find solutions within his department within the limits given. What else does the budget promise us? In addition to regular reconciliation, pensions will also be carried out at 1.1%, and all pensioners will receive an annual allowance, perhaps slightly ignored, but the fact that a general ban is gradually being lifted, as I have already said, in the public sector, is extremely important. I think these are trends that suggest that this country will be better off. We must not forget the municipalities, in 2018 and 2019 there is an average of €551 and €558 – I know that this is not enough, I know that the legal basis is different, but when you cut a cake budget, you cut it by everyone having one of these cakes. The share of the state's return on investment projects in municipalities is increasing, mainly for municipalities, and I think it's a good thing. We must not forget, the municipalities, their mayors, the municipal councilors were the most difficult, the main generator of economic growth, investments in 2008 and 2012, when the state was saving in all areas. Of course, we can also be critical to the budget, to the partners in our coalition, of course also to ourselves, that there will be no mistake. We think that much more money should be paid to make poverty go faster in this country, that much more money should be spent on investment in education, you know that we are lagging behind in the renovations of primary schools, that new departments in kindergartens are being built too slowly, that I am not saying that we have not enough money in the social sector for investments, the homes of pensioners, and I could list it. However, as I said before, we cannot achieve all our desires and needs within three, four years. I have been one of those Members, who I have been for some time now, accepting these budgets, and I must say that the Minister has worked very hard, made a relatively good budget – why am I speaking relatively good? Because every minister, every Member, every Mayor, and I don't know who else, has a lot of desire, but even when money is a little bit more, it is necessary to know how to maneuver between those wishes. The fact that we have a surplus of the budget, I think, is a good thing and it is in this sense the greatest credit for this, of course, to Minister Vraničar. I think that today it is our task, the task of Members and Members and of the whole government to often narrow down the perception of the budget as an exact inventory of revenue and costs to extend to the ability to see the budget as the most important not only political but also developmental act. Social Democrats will adopt this budget, and when we conclude this government's mandate, I think we have made a relatively solid foundation for the next government to take another step forward, especially in the sense that of all the strong revenues and of all the changes in this legislation, we will benefit people most, which is why we are Members every day in the service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u20	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! Budget documents are an important indicator of the political direction of each government and coalition. The budget shows what are government priorities, what is important to the Government and what is not important to it. The budget lines show which areas the Government wants to strengthen and whose importance it wants to reduce. In addition, the draft budget also shows us the general economic orientation of the Government, the economic policy of the Government, which, in the draft budget for 2019 and in the draft amending budget for 2018, raises a number of concerns about the economic work advocated by the current government. Given that this year's budget documents are the latest documents of the current government, it is already clear to us in Nova Slovenija what is the general economic orientation of this government, what are the government's priorities, what is important to the government and what is not important to it. We regret that the Government does not advocate the social market model of an economy that is verified in Europe's most powerful economic countries. The key issue in the consideration of budgetary documents is how we want Slovenia. We have a document, we have a vision entitled Slovenia 2050, where we ask what Slovenia we want to live in, and we claim that our future is too important to leave to chance. Better tomorrow is the responsibility of each and every one of us. Nice words, isn't it? But we do not know from beautiful words to concrete actions, to acts of politics, to acts of the executive branch of power, to actions of the Government to be trusted by people. Trust is a key issue here. Budget documents on the table give no hope for more confidence in politics. Ask the people on the street. We do not have strategic directions for the development of our country and society, we do not have a strategy for the development of Slovenia for the next 10, 20 years, so it is obvious for our government, for our country, for our boat at sea every wind is good – not an important direction, only that it is wind. Such a picture can be created very quickly by anyone. The balance of the budget for 2018 and the draft budget for 2019 marks a higher level of budgetary revenue, which is, of course, linked to economic growth. According to Sursa data, economic growth has reached 3.1% in 2016 and Umar is forecasting economic growth in the following years, in 2017 4.4%, in 2018 3.9% and in 2019 3.2%. Christian Democrats point out that growth is mainly based on Slovenian export companies, as exports increased by 6.4% in 2016. Umar predicts that the real growth in exports of products and services in 2017 will be 8,8 %, in 2018 7,5 % and in 2019 6,1 %. The responsible policy must have an answer to the question of what people, the ones on the edge, the ones on the edge of society and the ones on the edge of the country have. As we can see, due to the improved situation in our export markets and, of course, thanks and exclusively, Slovenian entrepreneurs have increased their budget revenues and exceeded their expectations. We can only simulate how much higher the budget revenues would be if, for the first time, the government listened to at least a little bit of the proposals of the laws and recommendations of the opposition New Slovenia to improve competitiveness and improve the business environment, and for the second time, if the government did not choke even with reckless and only accounting and cosmetic legal solutions to economic freedom and consequently economic growth. But it's not just about economic growth. It is also a better social state, ladies and gentlemen. Today, all smart policies are aware that the best social policy is the policy that enables economic freedom, economic growth and new jobs, especially young professionals. The revenue in the Proposal for amending the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 amounts to EUR 9.68 billion and, according to the 2018 budget adopted last year, is increasing by EUR 409 million, representing a 4.4% increase. The revenue in the 2019 draft budget is estimated at EUR 9.75 billion and increases by a low percentage in terms of the balance. The government foresees a budget surplus of just over €50 million. It is certainly good news that the Slovenian economy, despite all the burdens, achieves the results that enable such a forecast. In view of these circumstances, it would be expected that by reducing taxes the Government will finally relieve those who make sure that the budget bag can be filled every year. They are, of course, entrepreneurs and their employees. Unfortunately, the government coalition is not able to make good use of these growths to improve the business environment, as budgetary expenditure is steadily increasing. It is also worrying that the Government is still planning a debt of €3.26 billion, while in 2019, for example, it is increasing public sector funds and purchasing goods and services by more than €38 million. In Novi Slovenija we note the fact that a slight budget surplus is only a nominal surplus. We still have the structural deficit problem. This is clear, of course, because the Government has not seriously undertaken any reform in its mandate. The warnings of the Fiscal Council are clear, the government has overheard them. Christian Democrats point out, however, that the Slovenian budget, with a possible reduction in the projected economic growth, can soon return to its nominal deficit. This sword will hang over us until we implement the necessary reforms and reduce our structural deficit, and therefore it is necessary to work hard and modernise the Slovenian business environment in the broadest sense. As this government's mandate is over, this will be one of the first tasks of the next government. The enlarged revenue side of the budget gives the Government a great deal of manoeuvre in the search for and implementation of a new economic model that would bring about the normalisation of the tax and general business environment. Unfortunately, the government has not decided to do so, resulting in its proposals maintaining the status quo of the Slovenian economic system. For 2018 we expect €409 million more budget revenues than we expected for the same year last year. These funds could be made more useful than merely to increase budgetary revenue. In the Republic of Slovenia, we have a good opportunity to more manage both our public finances and our business environment, which is planned in the budget documents, when considering the budget documents for 2018 and 2019. The government is acting very uneconomically here. Compared to 2017, the government wants to use 42 million more for public sector wages in 2018 and almost 60 million more in 2019 than in 2017. In the case of expenditure on goods and services, the Government plans to spend almost 18 million more in 2019 than in 2017. Amounts for subsidies are growing steeply. The amount of subsidies in 2019 amounts to EUR 526 million, which is 59 million more than in 2018 and 131 million more than in 2017. In Novi Slovenije, instead of increasing subsidies, we propose to the Government to reduce tax burdens for all, for all business entities and for all citizens and citizens. There is always suspicion, ladies and gentlemen, that half a billion euros of subsidies will be distributed to the government's political partners. In particular, the Slovenian economy needs oxygen, not charity in the form of selective subsidies, which are often on the verge of State aid. We need a fair tax environment in which fair competition will be possible. This is a marriage for the success of our companies and the growth of new jobs. New jobs are the best budgetary policy and also the best social policy. We have been doing this in New Slovenia for quite some time. We must give our people the opportunity to create, support themselves and their families by exercising their abilities and paying reasonable taxes. This is one of the main goals for which we are fighting the Christian Democrats. “Everyone is responsible for the better future of Slovenia”, you wrote in the vision of Slovenia 2050 – but unfortunately you only wrote down, giving no opportunity to an individual. Unfortunately, the left-centre coalition with the budget documents from this departure, which we regret in Novi Slovenija. The adoption of the budget is directly linked to the planned government tax policy. The report of the World Economic Forum for 2016 and 2017 notes that the Slovenian tax environment does not promote investment or work. Therefore, the World Economic Forum notes that the Slovenian tax environment does not promote investment or work. The assessment of the incentive of the tax environment for investment shows that Slovenia, among the comparable countries in the latter place, also assesses that Slovenia, in the area of the incentive of the tax environment, has agreed to Austria, for Poland, for Slovakia, for Germany, for the Czech Republic, for Hungary, with an even worse assessment between comparable countries. Too much tax burden is contrary to the Christian democratic principle of subsidiarity, whereby all social processes in which this is possible are to be carried out at the most basic social level. The country should only enter into these processes when it is no longer able to perform optimally at a lower level. Christian Democrats believe that an individual is much more responsible and rational in handling financial resources than a country, so that only a limited amount of the resources necessary to operate its systems can be transferred to the country through taxes. On the other hand, citizens should retain a greater share of the resources they have created with their abilities and with their work. Mačehov’s policy of funding municipalities and the centralisation of the country is a major developmental bar of the Republic of Slovenia. We support the tax policy designed to provide the necessary public goods and services, rational social states and the necessary state mechanisms. When I talk about a rational social state, I think about the need to overwind social transfers, as the State Council points out, and even the government and the ministry responsible for social affairs agree with the warning, but nothing happens. At the same time, Nova Slovenija opposes the tax policy, the purpose and consequences of which are unjustified redistribution, the provision of revenue to selected stakeholders, the reduction of motivation and productivity, the reduction of motivation for productivity, the unreasonable expansion of the public administration system, the involvement of the State in the economy and the distortion of the market. The high-tax policy shows great mistrust for the ability of citizens to manage the money they deserve. On the one hand, the aim of the socialist tax policy is to raise the largest possible amount of funding for social transfers, while on the other hand the aim of the Christian Democrats' tax policy is to create a tax system which, on the one hand, will provide sufficient resources for the normal functioning of the country, while at the same time putting the business environment under strain only to the extent that economic operators will be able to enjoy a competitive business environment and consequently develop jobs. We live in a time of rapid technological development driven by highly qualified individuals and businesses. If Slovenia, through its tax policy, asks these people to realize their abilities and ideas in foreign countries, we will never be among the most successful countries, and we will even go back because others will continue to beat us. Skilled individuals are the most important thing Slovenia has. We also want to create a more friendly environment for these individuals to develop their ideas and their business activities, and therefore we need a more favourable tax framework, which in addition to the overall reduction of tax burdens includes a reduction in the value of progressive taxation and a reduction in the steep growth in the level of social contributions. The country, which uses the tax system to oppress the most productive and creative individuals, is also suppressing its own development and its own future. Tax relief is one of the main priorities of New Slovenia's policy, so we have already tabled the new Income Act twice, with this proposal to increase the overall income relief to €7,000. This bill would also increase the net salaries of employees, and when the bill was adopted they could also consider reducing the wages of public servants, since in this case their net salaries would be higher and therefore gross wages could be reduced. Unfortunately, in the budgetary documents under consideration today, the government is doing exactly the opposite, increasing its expenditure on salaries, instead of reducing the tax burden, the government is ignoring the communications and demands of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia. The increase in the overall relief we have proposed would also address the problem of migrant workers, among other things, as the increased overall relief eliminates the need to pay for high income differentials in Slovenia. Unfortunately, our amendment to the Income Law was rejected on the working body. With the amendments, we tried to put the tax burden into effect in the procedures for dealing with the amendment of the Value Added Tax Act, when we proposed a reduction of both tax rates to the added value to the German level. Unfortunately, we were rejected again. Interestingly, the left - centred government has thus established an increase in value added tax, and this most a social tax — let it be understood who can. In Novi Slovenija we have also proposed a tax burden on work in recent years, prepared and tabled a proposal for a new Law on social security contributions, where we proposed the implementation of the so-called development cap. This means that, for four gross minimum wages, we have proposed a ceiling on the amount of social security contributions for employers. At the same time, we have also proposed the introduction of a so-called social slipper, which means that we would set a lower income limit from which contributions would not be paid. The novel also proposed that the payment of the Christmas house in terms of the payment of the contributions be treated in the same way as the regress, which means the exemption from the payment of social security contributions of 70% of the average monthly salary. For our proposals, the coalition, for proposals to relieve the taxation of labour, which is one of the highest in Europe, has been ignored. However, as pre-election time approaches, the government coalition has changed its mind and offered citizens an increase in the untaxed part of the Christmas tree to the average wage in the new Law on Income. When the reduction of the tax burden on the goddess has already been proposed twice by Nova Slovenija, the coalition rejected the proposal without training with the eye. As the election approaches, the coalition is in a hurry to share its last Christmas present. Obviously, in the pre-election period, the view of left-wing parties on tax policy is also changing a little bit. Well, you've been listening to us for a while. It would be good if you'd listened to us more than once. Ladies and gentlemen, we have also tabled some amendments to improve the budgetary documents. Unfortunately, they did not receive support from the parent’s working body. It is clear from all the above and also from what I have not yet said and will, that the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats – will not support the draft budgets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr Luka Mesec will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! In opening, I will say that we will not support the budget in Levika for two main reasons: it is unjustifiable on the revenue side, it has wrong priorities on the expenditure side. I'll try to work out each side separately. If I look first at the revenues, the fact is that taxes in this country continue to place a greater burden on the average citizen than on the owners of capital or the owners of property of high value. Capital taxes are among the lowest in Europe. In Slovenia, the effective rate of taxation reaches 11.2 %, as far as capital is concerned, in the budget we collect around 10% of taxes from capital, some countries of Europe and the European Union collect 30%, saying three times more than we do. It should not surprise us, therefore, that we usually find ourselves on the European scales somewhere in the last place, behind us is just some other Estonia, judging by capital taxes. I won't exaggerate if I say that, given these taxes, we're a de facto tax haven. Similarly to having high value, for example, France collects 4.5% of its GDP from property taxes, we collect 0.6%. It should therefore not surprise us that Umar notes that 10% of the richest people in this country already own almost half of their assets, 47%. On the other hand, we have the lower 20% of the population, the lower 20% of the poorest, who own only half a percent of all assets in this country. This is also the result of ineffective taxation of high value assets and unfair distribution of taxes. Once again, taxes in this country are significantly more burdensome for the average citizen than for the owner of capital or the owner of property of high value. The result is this: if we look at how much taxes we collect in total, we will find that Slovenia collects around 37% of GDP in its budget last year at the annual level – these are data from last year, which is comparable to 44% of Austria's. So our public finances are poorer than the countries we like to follow. However, the key problem is what I have highlighted: too low taxes on property and capital. I am saying this in the introductions so that we will not hear that there is no money in this country or that you are social, housing, better public transport, and so on we cannot afford it. That is simply not true, in Levica we have already been alerting the entire mandate to where the reserves are, and I have now again described them. If I go to the expenditure side now, there are, as I said in the introduction, wrong priorities. On the one hand, we have a lot of unjustified spending and on the other hand, we have grey foxes in this budget. Speaking of unwarranted spending, the government's most important commitment will be to spend as much as €1.2 billion by 2025 to arm two NATO military battalions. 1.2 billion, that's a thousand 200 million. Is that worth it? Is that an emergency? Is Slovenia under military threat? The last time I looked at the map, it was surrounded by friendly countries themselves, all members of the European Union. Can Slovenia be exempted from NATO missions? She can, it's allowed by the North Atlantic Treaty. Could you freeze your NATO membership or get out of it? Yes, you can. Our northern neighbour is not a NATO member, he is neutral and he is making substantial cuts for the military, and he is not forced into any undertaking like this, and he is not forced to say that in the United Nations he is opposed to nuclear disarmament in the world, which Slovenia has finally done with the argument that we are a member of NATO and that we must do so because we are a member of NATO. So 1.2 billion by 2025 is invested completely without a link for a purpose that is contrary to our foreign policy objectives. Where's the money gone? I'm only going to try to get five points, and these are apartments, public transport, nursing homes, health care and social services. Flats. As we have noted yesterday among the Members of Parliament's questions, this country has not had any meaningful housing policy for a quarter of a century. The consequences are known, apartments, prices of apartments, rents of apartments are mainly raised in urban environments. All those who did not make it to property during privatisation and with the law of Jasbinsk today have great difficulties in accessing housing. Practically my entire generation is forced into wanting to settle in some urban center, it will probably have to be responsible for practically half of life or agree to rents that will amount to half a salary or more. The housing fund held by the State acts as a real estate agency. Instead of serving as a correctional, lowering the prices of dwellings on the market, taking up non-profit rents, prices on the market are rising effectively. Projects such as Green Gaj and Brdo are sold at the market prices of apartments, EUR 3 000 300 squared. This means that, for example, a wardrobe on the Hill built by a national housing fund, which is supposed to be corrective, sells for 140 000 euros and is 38 square metres. In Brdo we have an example of a kind house sold by the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for 820 000 euros. 820 thousand euros. This is a price that no one in this room, including the Prime Minister of the Government, can pay to move there. It's this country's housing policy. And what did this government do? You'll find €790 thousand in the apartment line. This is the price at which you can currently afford three wardrobes in Ljubljana. Why don't at least make that billion that we're going to invest in NATO invest in apartments? How many young people would do this to save themselves from having to be credited for half their life? How many people who are forced to pay rent would be burdened? These are questions for this government. If I go on public transport. If we look at the passenger transport of Slovenian railways, it is in worse shape than it was a quarter of a century ago. Today in Slovenia it is virtually impossible to live in nearby Maribor or Koper and move to work with public transport to Ljubljana. That's impossible, because it'll take you two hours and an infinite amount of nerve. In comparable countries, you can go again to a nearby area, from one urban centre to another by public transport in a very comfortable way, without the stress that our people have to experience on highways every morning, and without unnecessary costs for car purchases, fuel, tolls and so on. In order to update the railway lines, the Government will again give only change and invest in only a few more or less freight projects. Why not at least invest in the billions we invest in NATO in the modernisation of Slovenian railways and their passenger transport? Why don't you imagine a country where a man can come from Maribor to Ljubljana in, say, three quarters of an hour? Is that impossible? This technology enables us to do so, but it requires political will and priority choice. Senior citizens' homes. We are an ageing society, there are no public networks home for the elderly, more or less subject to concessionaires. You have been able to monitor the consequences in recent weeks on television programs, high prices, poor care, poor quality, literally these homes for older people in some respects remind you of sailboats. Investments are practically not foreseen. Why does the state not invest in building a public network of homes for the elderly? That's what I'm asking the Coalition Desus. If you're looking for pensions and a decent age, where are the investments in nursing homes? Why isn't that in the budget? Health care. If you walk around the Ljubljana University Clinical Center, you will find that there are many clinics in areas over 100 years old that were built during the period of Austro-Hungarian times. How much will the government spend on investment in health care? I'm fighting 26 million euros. Despite the increasing need to modernise Slovenian health care, investments are declining. 26 million euros. On the other hand, we have the Hill project, that is, the protocol spaces that were restored ten years ago, the government will invest 21 million euros in reconstruction. What priorities are these? Why don't we invest in modernizing health care? We all talk about unsustainable conditions there, waiting types, outdated equipment, outdated spaces, poor quality accommodation, and the government in the same breath reduces investment in health care. Last time I got social assistance, the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities finally calculated a new calculation of the minimum cost of living on 27 October. It was found that a single adult with less than 613 euros per month cannot survive in this country. If we subtract from its needs resources for recreation, cultural activities, housing insurance, we come to a bare existential minimum of €442. However, minimum social assistance will amount to 75% of this, says €331, which is about half of what the Ministry calculates as the minimum cost of living. On the home committee, I asked the Ministry why this was the case, and I received the answer that social assistance must be so low that there would otherwise be a danger or a trap of inactivity, as they called it. Thus, if social assistance were to be higher, people would not be willing to work because the difference to minimum wage is too small. The Ministry of Thesis has in no way proved this, but if it thinks that this is a serious problem, we can only solve it in one way, at a time when surpluses in Slovenia are such as when we have a conjuncture, more than 2 billion surpluses in trade with abroad, the only civilisation is sustainable to ensure an existential minimum for all and to take up the minimum wage at the same time. We have already tabled a proposal in Levica to raise the minimum wage to €700 and those in the ministry and from the government who say that we cannot raise social aid because the minimum wages are too small, and we invite them to support this proposal when it comes to the hearing in the National Assembly in a few weeks. I hope I don't hear it again, that we can't afford it or that there's no money. As I showed in the opening presentation, the surpluses are huge, we know the reserves. There is room for reallocation of priorities in this budget. If I finish the call, it would be time to create a country for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We have concluded with a joint introductory presentation and a presentation of the views of the groups on the draft amending the budget and on the supplementary draft budget. We continue with item 3 of the agenda – Proposal for amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018. We are moving on to a debate on the draft budget changes. We will discuss individual parts of the draft amending budget and the amendments tabled. As an individual part, for the first time, the general part, the second, the specific part and the third, the programme development plan shall be considered. We are moving on to a general part of the proposal for amending the budget. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. First, I give my word to the Minister of Finance of Magi. Matei Vranictor Erman.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Allow me to respond briefly at the beginning of the debate to some of the statements we have heard in the debate so far and to give a general definition of the Government to the amendments tabled for 2018. In the introductory debate, we have heard that this government has significantly higher revenues and that the needs are lower. The fact is that the favourable economic situation and the measures taken so far are also reflected in higher public financial revenues, particularly in so-called integral revenues, but the outcome of the crisis does not mean that there is less need. We are still in a period of gradual reduction or phase-out of restrictive measures, and in 2018, full restrictive measures, which were in force in the area of pension protection during the crisis, will be lifted. In part, wage measures in the public sector and transfers to individuals and households remain in place. Some of the measures have been replaced by sustained measures that make public finances more sustainable, but what needs to be stressed is that the first priority is also the state budget in order to provide funds for all the legal obligations, for all the needs expressed for the different groups of stakeholders. The pensioners mentioned were mentioned several times today. All legal rights shall be financed without any restriction. And yes, the expenditure of the state budget in the pension allowance is lower, but the total amount of pension allowance growth on the income and expenditure side and the correct assessment of the state’s contribution to the public part of pension protection should be taken into account both the state budget and the pension fund. We have seen that most of the additional revenues are directed towards public sector salaries and to the payment of material costs. The material costs in 2018 and 2019 are indeed increasing, but not due to the extensive use or waste of public authorities, but because new funds, new financial perspectives, European funds are directed not only at classical investments but also at people or to the provision of so-called human resources, and these are reflected in items of material costs. Many comments were contradictory. There is no secret that since 2008, GDP has moved in a different direction from that of our comparable countries, and there is also no secret, and we have never claimed otherwise that last year the GDP level has reached the GDP level of 2008. But we have also constantly pointed out that the rate of growth of gross domestic product can also be affected by the policy of public financial expenditure. Where they bring a very restrictive policy of public financial expenditure and uncompromising sharp cuts to public consumption, we felt in 2012 with one of the highest negative GDP growth. For this reason, I stress the need to strike the right balance between the pace of fiscal consolidation and the provision of further stable fiscal consolidation. In several discussions, it was mentioned that it is time to reduce public financial burdens, but at the same time no reduction in public financial expenditure was offered by the applicants. Without each other, if we want and if we are serious about fiscal consolidation, it simply cannot be. And if we are not prepared for changes in public financial expenditure and at the same time call for individual public financial expenditure to still be fed, we cannot at the same time demand that tax revenues be reduced. The fact is that the structure of expenditure in the state budget changes reflects the situation in the economy. And it is also with individual concrete solutions. The draft budgets reflect legal solutions, such as those currently in force or in the process of amending. As a result of this, some uncertain facts that will or may occur in the future cannot be taken into account in the draft budget. To this end, we have at our disposal other mechanisms offered by public financial policy. I was specifically invited to answer the question about the impact the sale process or privatisation of the New Ljubljana Bank will have on the 2018 and 2019 budget. Already on Saturday's Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, I have stressed that the proposals currently under discussion with the European Commission have no direct impact on budgetary revenues or expenditure. This government has never proposed to the European Commission the payment of any penalty, a misrepresentation of what has actually been agreed or agreed upon in relation to the European Commission. The national budget shall plan on the revenue side the dividend income for all state-owned enterprises in accordance with the performance expectations of state-owned enterprises, in accordance with the dividend policy, as set out in the governance strategy for all state-owned enterprises and in the proposal for an annual management plan for state-owned assets by SDH. The dividend policy takes into account, on the one hand, the need for state-owned enterprises to contribute to public treasury in line with their success, while also taking into account that companies need certain resources for their own development and for further sound business. According to the above, revenue from each State undertaking shall be determined according to the specific objectives set for each individual undertaking. Once the privatisation procedures are completed, the new principles will apply to NLB or any other state-owned enterprise in the coming years and hence a slightly lower dividend income plan for 2019. However, in such sales procedures it is always valid or it is prudent that the seller negotiates that the profits or dividends from the company’s success in the year when you were the owner yourself belong to you as a seller. As far as debt is concerned – yes, of course, it was also necessary to carry out additional tasks in this mandate, to cover deficits and to compensate or cover the principals of the debt that had been leased in the past with high interest rates. We have been able to reduce these significantly in recent times. It will also continue to be due for the refinancing of the existing debt, but we expect that each year to be slightly smaller or, in particular, depending on how high the principals' obligation is in each year. Once again, I would like to stress that the draft budgets take into account some balance between the different objectives and policies pursued by the Government, and above all represent an appropriate balance between the need for rapid public financial consolidation, by exploiting the favourable economic conditions, by preparing public finances for the future establishment in the economic cycle, while also addressing individual issues or individual funding needs that need to be addressed at the present time. With regard to the amendments, I would like to point out once again that there is always a need to take into account the policy or programme that we want to add to it, as well as the policy and programme that we want to take away from it. The Government must assess the adequacy of the amendments, both on the one hand and on the other. I note that individual proposers propose that the financial administration should be fully absorbed, so they clearly estimate that the collection of public financial revenues for public purposes is no longer necessary. It is further proposed that the country's commitment to the European budget be significantly reduced, i.e. a reduction of the obligations agreed with the international treaties, or an interference with the earmarked expenditure or the resources provided by the State budget. For these reasons too, the Government has not been able to support the individual proposal, but once again I stress that the balance between the provision of funds for different policies or purposes must be taken into account. I estimate that the proposed budgets are addressed accordingly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u25	Mrs. Susana Beautiful Šimenka has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u26	Thank you very much, chairman, for your word. Dear Members, Members, Minister and others present, welcome! Today we will consider amending the budget for 2018 and the budget for 2019, but let us first focus on the first item, this is a change in the budget for 2018. It has been more than three years since the current government team took over its executive branch, and it is usually so that the major, bigger, harder changes are made at the very beginning of the mandate, unfortunately we have not been involved in this government and more than obvious, not least in the light of the changes we have in the budget for the coming year, we will not be receiving this in 2018 or in the last months of this government. What am I talking about? The proper and necessary rehabilitation of our healthcare system has not been done, on the contrary, the waiting periods have been substantially extended in the mandate of this government and these ministers have not been reduced, and not least more doctors, especially young doctors, are going abroad. There has been no change in the education system, the pension system, the justice system, there has been no economic stress, on the contrary, the economy has received more tax than legal persons' income for that minimum wage relief. On the other hand, we are witnessing that, at some point, the country does not want to withdraw from the economy at all costs, even though we know that the country is no longer a good owner. Companies owned by the state do not function well. Some are positive, but if compared with competing companies in Europe, we would see that they still have a lot of potential, but of course the Government holds them in its hands and exploits them, not least for various political employment, for various advisory contracts, for PR contracts and also for some media sponsorship. If we look at the economic growth forecasts themselves, of course we can be happy, for the coming years we are forecasting economic growth, and Umar has forecasted it at 4.4% for 2018, but we know that our main engine, our main driver, is also our economic growth exporters. We must be happy that we have a period of conjunctura in Europe, that our main trading partners are doing well, and as a result our companies working in foreign markets have better opportunities. On the other hand, in the private sector, unlike the public sector in the period of crisis, they have adapted accordingly, not least cost-effectively, and adjusted to the current market situation in view of the number of employees, so that they can compete today. Thanks to the well-being of our companies, our development backlog is slowing down, which of course is encouraging, but I am concerned by Director Umarje's words when he announced the autumn forecast, which said that despite the high growth rate it would take a few years or a decade to achieve what we had before the outbreak of the crisis. This is what we should be worried about, and we have not achieved more than a manifestly backward development. If we look at some numbers in the balance sheet of the 2018 budget, we are expected to receive a total of 9.67 billion euros in revenue in the budget. This means about 400 million more than originally planned. Most of these revenues will be derived from income and profit taxes, changes in taxes on goods and services and revenues from participation in profits. We will thus receive most of the additional revenue thanks to well-functioning companies in Slovenia, but according to the logic of this government you are acting in such a way that, although they do the most for Slovenia, you are also the most penalist. Let me remind you of the Minister's words when we accepted a tax rise from corporate income from 17% to 19% when she said that this tax would not essentially affect everyone, that it would only affect those companies that generate profits – yes, and those who create profits – on the other hand should be punished. In total, around EUR 2 billion is to be received from the revenue and profit budget and around EUR 5.8 billion from goods and services taxes, of which EUR 3.6 billion from value added tax and EUR 1.6 billion from excise duties. Here, let me remind you that in 2015, the government of Mira Cerar took up a higher rate of value added tax, however you claim otherwise. At the time of the government of Alenka Bratušek, the change in the value added tax rate was introduced in the so-called law on the implementation of the budget, but this government took the form of an increase in this rate in the Value Added Tax Act. Of course, if we see how much money comes out of this title, and, of course, the easiest way to increase your income is to raise that tax. It is important to be aware, however, that this is a tax that actually affects the largest number of people, or completely all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, who spend some money in Slovenia. Looking at the revenue side of the budget, we see that EUR 1.11 billion of revenue is to be generated from the European Union's funds. Whether it's real or not, of course they know it at the Ministry. However, I cannot go beyond the disastrously poor use of European funds in the financial perspective of 2014-2020. We know that we have 3.2 billion Euros at our disposal. So far, €1.29 billion of contracts signed, payments from the state budget were €240 million, and refunds from the European Union budget to Slovenia's budget were only €69 million, which means only 2% of what we can actually draw. This is what ultimately counts as how much of this 3.2 billion we actually get in the Slovenian budget. Where are the reasons for this? He is complicating new information support, delays in entering the information system, but of course I wonder who is responsible here. I guess the ministries and I really don't understand why you're not taking action in this area, these are actually our almost only development resources that we have in the country. If we look on the other side for more expense. Together, they are expected to be €9.6 billion in 2018. This is 52 million more than originally planned. We will spend as much as €850 million on interest. Why do they pay such interest? Due to the substantial over-indebtedness of the State. You probably don't even know what these 850 million euros could do either in the area of infrastructure or in the area of pensions or, I don't know, in the area of coherent regional development in the Republic of Slovenia. There's also a lot of talk about how much we actually spend on civil servants' salaries. It is 1.2 billion euros and we have a total of 5.25 billion euros in current transfers, giving individuals and households 1.2 billion euros and 1.3 billion euros in social security funds. It may be quite appropriate here to ask again where that new pension reform has been discussed, but it is obvious that it will not be prepared in this government's mandate. For public institutions we give 1.93 billion euros. Investment expenditure – we are no longer talking in billions, but we can move to millions – is just over EUR 500 million and investment transfers for EUR 385 million. It is true, as we look at the end, that the 50 million euro surplus is recorded in the budget, which, of course, is very encouraging, but we know that in most ways it has good leverage from the old financial perspective 2007-2013, which is why we will receive an additional 205 million euros from the European Union. Let me express great disappointment, although after all these years of this here in the National Assembly I should have gotten used to it, but the practice of the past governments was not the same. No opposition amendment was adopted on either Friday or Saturday at the home finance committee. If this coalition had any intention of actually making a budget with which everyone would agree more or less, it would probably have opposed the opposition. In the past it has been so, that is what those who have already been Members have said, but unfortunately there is a thousand and one reason why our amendments are not good enough, and of course this coalition does not support them, and so you have not accepted them nor on the home committee. Of course, I would like to convince you, with these debates here today in the National Assembly and tomorrow and then on Thursday when the vote is taken, to support at least some of our good amendments. In the light of past experience, I cannot be overly optimistic here. I do not intend to support the proposal for amending the 2018 budget. Why not? Because it seems to me that there is a substantial lack of investment resources, that does not include the necessary changes that we need to develop Slovenia, and because, after all, it does not suggest a decommissioning of the economy, which is, you want or do not want, the heart and backbone of the development of Slovenia. It is important to bear in mind that the well-functioning economy below also depends on the development of the country, depending on the well-functioning private sector, on what we can actually afford in the country. It should be so that the public sector is one truly good service to our citizens and citizens and, of course, a good service to our economy, but unfortunately this has not been the case in recent years. If we look at some other key and very important data, Slovenia is significantly moving up the workload. This, I know that the Minister of Finance is also aware, we have been warned on many occasions when we look at the burden of Slovenian wages with an average OECD, the Slovenian salary is charged with 42.7%, while the average of the OECD is 36%. No matter what we were alerted to, nothing was done in this area. Where are those key issues? Problems are in too high social security contributions. This is something that we should urgently bite into, and then we could also have burdened salaries and higher net earnings for all employees. This is crucial, however, because, I don't know, the second way back would be to return to the budget, for example, through value added tax. People would spend more, because they wouldn't keep that money with them. Unfortunately, as a result, as a country, we are not so competitive, and in neighbouring countries, for an equivalent gross salary, employees get significantly more; and this is also why many, in particular the younger ones living near the border, tend to go to work in neighbouring Austria, where, of course, they receive a significantly higher salary. Unfortunately, then these daily migrants are called because they go to work in Austria on a daily basis, then punished and received by Furs very high rates to make up for what is already overpaid at the start; all of us pay too much social security contributions. And instead of actually unloading these rates and leaving us a little bit lower, that's how those who were forced to find out otherwise are punished. However, it is also the case that a number of people choose to leave Slovenia and move abroad with their family, especially to neighbouring Austria. If we look at what has happened in the last period or in the light of the budget plan in the area of coherent regional development, we see that there are no changes here, much less the opposite. We note only an even greater centralisation of the country and, of course, we cannot support it. To date, only two regional development agreements have been signed, although this has been discussed for three years. European funds are primarily intended for areas that are under-averagely developed according to the European average, and this is in particular our Eastern Slovenia and all border areas. Sorry we don't spend that money for that purpose. All areas along the border are significantly behind the Slovenian average and beyond the European average. But even when the European funds of the existing financial perspective were negotiated, it was precisely because of the less developed eastern part of Slovenia that we received so much more European funding. It would be appropriate to allocate significantly more resources to these areas, at least for this reason. It's probably hard to imagine here in Ljubljana that many people can't have a phone, that many people don't operate the Internet, because we still have many white foxes in Slovenia, there's been a lot of talk about how these things are going to work out, but they haven't, until today, any change. You have introduced tax receipts without the first making of basic infrastructure and support, so that in fact any entrepreneur in Slovenia can also use these taxes. You were forced to find the right solution and you tied it to the account book, but first you should do more to provide the appropriate infrastructure. I myself have proposed, like all the years before, amendments to the Haloz area, where we were united, that this area needs special support to have great potential; but without the area providing special resources, we somehow cannot expect greater progress. But unfortunately, as in recent years, this amendment has not been adopted on the Committee and more on the amendment below. It also seems important to me that the actual system in the country is just for everyone. Today, in the field, I hear too often that someone who is unemployed only receives social transfers, gets a suspicion of sumarum smallity less than those who work for minimum wage, given here how much he pays for kindergarten, school meals and the like. And such a system is not encouraging. Such a system is not encouraging for young people, and this is also why many prefer to go abroad. Here we don't wonder what we're losing with this as a country. We invested in them throughout the whole period – from kindergarten, elementary school, high school, college. Finally, when they become active and for years, they would actually contribute to the budget and leave us. Today, it was said here by a colleague from the Modern Centre Party in a presentation of the position that we have a positive migration growth, that more people are coming to Slovenia as they are leaving. Yes, that is true, because I looked at the statistics of the statistical office, it is indeed positive, in 2016 16 thousand 623 people moved to Slovenia and 15 thousand 572 moved to Slovenia, but moved away significantly more Slovenian citizens than have moved to Slovenia; in 2016 only 2 thousand 900 Slovenian citizens and 13 thousand 800 foreign nationals moved to Slovenia. However, 8 thousand 800 Slovenian citizens and 6 thousand 800 foreign nationals moved out of the country. And if we look now at which countries most come to us – as many as 35% come from Bosnia, then the majority of the former Yugoslav countries remain here. Most Slovenian citizens, however, are going to neighbouring Austria, including for the reasons that I have already stated today, which were 27% in 2016, followed by countries such as Germany, Switzerland and so on. If we look only at Slovenian citizens, the ones we have invested in the most, we see that we have a very negative increase, 6 thousand more Slovenian citizens have left Slovenia in 2016. This is what we should be worried about in the National Assembly. However, if we look at other data, what all those who have come to the country mean, how much they actually contribute to the country and how much the country costs and then the other side, I believe that the picture would still be quite different. As it is said, I do not intend to support the change in the 2018 budget. I would expect that after at least a few years, at least some part of us would get closer to the opposition and support our amendment, so I will appeal to you again. Think about it, because the proposals are very good for our citizens. It is really difficult to understand why such attitudes and what guides you, all past governments and coalitions in previous mandates have acted the other way around. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u27	Mr. Sasa Tabakovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u28	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues, colleagues! In contrast to the concerns of my colleague Lepi Šimenko, I would say that the general budget is prepared to address in my opinion the different social aspects of life, from some basic concept of public interest, which is certainly also concerned with health, which I believe was also given special attention to finance in this mandate; on the other hand, let's say some economic policies or economic development, but these are also some of the topics that will then be dealt with in greater detail by my colleagues from the Group of the Modern Centre. Therefore, in my own debate, I will first and foremost define myself as regards the draft education budget. When we talk about school policy through an understanding of funding, we cannot go beyond the fact that Slovenia's school space in the past years before this reference to the National Assembly, that is, before 2014, certainly suffered major financial losses. It is the consequences of the infamous ZUJF, which has disbursed a number of salaries, has disbursed a number of investments in education and education, and has also exposed many programmes in the field of education and education; of course, these cuts were based on the financial crisis and the economic failure of the country at that time. The question raised is whether this saving has resulted in a decrease in the achievement of the citizens' standard of knowledge, what has happened to the development of science and what these financial consequences or financial cuts have had for the development of science, social progress and, consequently, economic development. And if we look at statistics before 2014 and after 2014, where financial resources in the field of education and education have increased with each year, we can see that statistics of the overall indicator of a successful learning and scientific environment have improved. This means that it is not only about how many professors, teachers, that is, all those working in the field of education and education are willing to invest in new generations; it is, as a result, also about certain funding. Unlike some colleagues in the coalition and also the opposition, I will not completely demonise the then ZUJF, but I would like to see that policy in the future, despite some economic fluctuations, is always very careful and restrained when it comes to whether the education and public service funds that education carries out are the ones that it would cut at some point. And I think that in the years before 2014, such a policy has proved not to bear true fruit; and I also wish that it had been acceptable in the years before 2014. That is why, when I look at the 2018 budget picture and beyond for 2019 in the field of education, I am in some way satisfied that the funding in the field of education has increased by poor €110 million, which means that the Ministry of Education will be able to pursue the objectives of providing accessible and quality education and education for all; that it can also provide for strengthened and stable funding for higher education policies, including scientific research, with the possibility of encouraging the overall development or growth of children and young people through the development of sport policy for all. It is also simply the priorities of the school policy, which have been enshrined in the coalition contract and which also follow the programming guidelines themselves of the Modern Centre Party and also have some tangible results in the 2018 budget, and later for 2019. If we look at the area of pre-school education, if we look at the funding policy across the different levels of the school system, we can see that in the area of pre-school education, the most additional resources are allocated to parental subsidies, namely, 70% of the programme price that parents should pay for the second child and 100% for the third child or the next child; of course, this payment is linked to the income capacity of parents. However, in the financial year 2018 it is planned that around 15,000 children from this title will receive a subsidy of an average of poor €90 per month. In 2018, vulnerable groups are also further subsidised, children in bilingual departments and subsidisation of preschool programmes for Roma children. It is therefore a programme of integration policy, which we know has fallen slightly asleep in recent years. This year, together with the children in bilingual sections of this programme, €680 000 is allocated. Here I would like to stress the co-financing of the hospital departments in Slovenia, which the country cuts off a cake of EUR 765 000, which is not much. As you know, from September 2018, a new programme will be introduced in preschool education to finance shorter programmes for children who are not in kindergarten and who are 5 years old. This has also been adopted by the Amendment to the Kindergarten Act, in particular this amendment has been linked to better socialisation of children prior to entry into school, funds for this purpose are planned at EUR 600,000 in 2018 and it seems to me that 2 million in 2019 is failing. As far as primary education is concerned, we allocate almost 44% of all budget resources to this, which is a poor 800 million euro in 2018. These funds continue to pursue the objectives of ensuring optimal conditions for the upbringing of children on primary education programmes and on programmes of children with special needs. In particular, this method of funding ensures a regionally more equitable share of children's participation in public music school. However, there are also challenges facing us in the area of financing primary education, which are faced by growing generations of students; by 2019, almost one generation of children will be in the primary education system by the number of pupils more than in the past. These are, of course, open questions where the country, together with the local community, will have to bite into this really sweet fruit of primary school policy if this touches on some good demographic trends in Slovenia. I would like to stress here in particular that, with the funds provided in 2018 and then finally to regulate the funds that touch the textbook funds; as you know, these long years were the wounds of primary education. In the field of secondary education in 2018, this covers EUR 306 million and 16% of all funding. We are establishing more competent education, and I am talking mainly about programme changes that ensure a closer link between education and the needs of the labour market. This means that we are talking about budgetary requirements that touch on changes in the law affecting the introduction of apprenticeships and other forms of integration of education with the economy. However, the development of regional school centres is certainly encouraged by additional means in the field of secondary education, particularly in those environments that are more involved in inter-enterprise education cooperation, and the operation of 18 inter-enterprise education centres in secondary schools and 2 in higher schools is further financed. I mention this in particular because we have always said that the priority of these governments is to promote the integration between education and the economy. In the area of higher education, as I have already said, we have arranged a number of things with the amendment to the Higher Education Act. I am pleased, however, that in the area of higher education there is also an increase in investment funds, which are mainly aimed at solving the spatial problem of art academyes. I mention this because every year the art academy also prepared the Night of the Academy, or so-called Triada, where they pointed out the space crisis. And if we look at the budget, we can see that all three academics, the Academy of Music, the Academy of Theatres, radio, film and television, and the Academy of Fine Arts, are provided with additional funds. In particular, funds have been increased in the field of the Academy of Theatre, Radio, Film and Television, because the premises of AGRRFT have been denationalised. As you know, the order of the Franciscans has been restored. It is the premises located in Ljubljana between Chopova and Nazor Street. AGRFT, together with the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Finance, has tried to settle this crisis with the premises on Trubarjev Street, which is also reflected in the 2018 budget, where more than €6 million is allocated to the resolution of their spatial distress. As far as sport is concerned, in 2018 the funds for sport amount to EUR 20 million, of which EUR 2.8 million for sports infrastructure. Above all, I think it is important that in 2018 and 2019 the development of professional sport is supported by co-financing the preparation of teams and individuals for the largest international competitions. Here I would particularly like to highlight the co-financing of disability sports programmes, sports of older and pilot programmes for the integration of sports, disability and charity organisations. Science. As you know, we also had a thematic meeting in the National Assembly, which touched on the financing of science, which has been reduced over the past years, and in particular has been put aside in a way, since it has always been linked to calls by European cohesion policy. I am therefore pleased that in 2018 additional funds amounting to EUR 20 million were made available from the integrated budget, which means that this is, to a certain extent, a solution to how to understand in the future the financing of science from the integrated budget, i.e. from the public financial policy. I know that the Science Meeting demanded higher funding, demanding €40 million themselves. However, given the capacity at this point and in view of all the obligations that the State must cover, it seems to me that this is certainly an important move forward. In general, I can say that the area of funding for education and education is also in the direction of a more forward-looking policy or the development of the area itself through the financing of the budget in 2018, and also later by 2019, so that this budget can also be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u29	The next word is Mrs Nada Brinovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u30	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye, everybody! I used to work at the Mozir municipality and unwittingly compare the adoption of the municipal budget and our budget. We have adopted the municipal budget with clear objectives, with a clear strategy, on the basis of legally determined documents, and we have certainly taken into account the proposals or amendments of the opposition and the coalition. No amendments have been made and the Priors have been rejected. I have to say, when I compare it, we were real professionals in the congregation, but here we are amateurs; unfortunately, that is my conclusion. Why do I say that? When we discussed the budget for 2017 and 2018 last year, the Minister said at the meeting of the committee in the introduction, I will quote, read from the magnetogram: "Any change in these items can be questioned... or we want to insist on the extent of the expenditure and revenue of this budget." This means, domestically, no amendment will be adopted; the budget must go through as it is. The same has happened in the adoption of the Committee's budget this year. Here too, the minister said on Saturday, and I will quote: "Most of the proposed amendments break the prepared budget, so I do not support them." That is why neither our amendment nor my apologies were supported by the coalition, and our colleague, Janko Weber, supported two of our amendments. I would still understand that you, your fellow members of the coalition, would not support one amendment that concerns me now; but I do not understand that you did not support the amendments concerning, for example, the area of infrastructure – what reconstruction of roads from your area. I don't know how you're going to be, fellows, when your countrymen are going to knock on your sleeve a little bit and say, "What about this road, how did you vote in the National Assembly, why did you object?" But I find it even more amusing, perhaps my colleague Jelka will mention further that you did not support her amendment, it was a reconstruction of the road in Šentjur, as your president is coming from there. Your president has announced - I don't think it's anything bad or I don't want to say in this tone - that much is going on in Šentjur. I don't think the Sturdy will be looking at him kindly. Let us see what the priorities of this government are in 2018. Investing in infrastructure, science, safety and health. I fear that all these priorities for 2018 will go hand in hand with the priorities for 2017. In 2017, your priority was to listen to this year, health. And what are we, what did you do in health?Oh, my God! Waiting age, waiting species. We know that it has been submitted twice, or I think that 15 million additional programmes have gone through, of course without invitations; but waiting periods, interestingly, have increased to the first outpatient review by 5.3% or waiting beyond the allowable long period by 11.3%. Is that your priority? On the basis of these additional funds that you have put in the budget, the government itself has recognised that these measures have not produced satisfactory effects. The losses of public health institutions have increased from 20 million to 136 million. Remember, we also passed an intervention law. Health corruption is booming, I'd say. Young doctors are going abroad. I hope we finally get some information about how many young doctors are going abroad every year. And not to mention here, the adoption of harmful legislation in the field of health. These were or are priorities in 2017. I think these health priorities of yours have brought great chaos and collapse of Slovenian health care. And the minister got pregnant, so she liked to recruit, we know, for two years now, the minister got pregnant while she was still on the job, here I am thinking of UKC Ljubljana. The fact is, this government, look, it's the end of the mandate, but you don't have clear goals yet, and you don't have any clear strategy. As colleague Alenka Bratušek put it, this government has a vision, and this vision says that in 2050 all people should be happy. But if you want this, you're going to have to spend more money on health care so that citizens can go to all kinds of psychotherapists or psychiatrists to convince us that we're happy. On the basis of such a strategy, such work as we know, believe me, we will not be happy. We must be aware that this budget is not just numbers. This budget sets out the content and behind this budget, we need to know that there are people. And if we look at it, 290,000 citizens are still below the poverty line. This threshold, if compared to 2012, has increased by 20,000 citizens. Yesterday, the Prime Minister said that we had 130 000 unemployed in 2014; today we have 85,000 unemployed. I believe statistics are like that, but statistics second stop saying that 8,000 of our citizens go abroad every year with a stomach for bread. And if we calculate four times eight, it's 32 thousand less in the employment office, and if we add the 3,000 that this government has hired to a new public sector, we come up with a difference of zero. And interestingly enough, I hope that we will also be able to obtain once information on how many unemployed people have been employed in the institution; not only how many have been deleted from the register. I believe, I'm sure we wouldn't have made it to $45,000 here. 45,000 of our citizens have not been employed in these three years, at least not in Slovenia. If I go to this budget, as I have already said, you set some priorities every year, without a clear goal, without a strategy, you have forgotten your coalition contract. If I stop at the coalition contract, you have seven measures in the area of health. What's the ransom? There's not one. You have not implemented a single measure, and the mandate of this government will now be over. Minister of Finance, you also said at the committee meeting that it is not yet clear exactly how much will be paid in the public sector this year. The Minister's still talking. The government is still coordinating. I would ask myself if then just a little bit for fun we accept these numbers, this budget. I tell you, in the municipal budget, we had to have specific items in the budget, in line with all the public institutions or those that we just financed from the municipal budget. I hope that someone from the Ministry of Finance or the government will not think to say that the funds for wages are not coordinated because of our firefighters. The fact is, the government has yet to agree with the firefighters, or I think it was after the press this morning, that the Prime Minister of the Government will coordinate today, but I would say it is sad. It is sad to save money from firefighters who risk their health in the first place, thank God, now I don't remember the fact that anyone would even make their own life. But you also put security among the priorities for 2018. Firefighters don't directly worry about our safety. Every catch, accident or flood, fire, any accident that occurs, are firefighters in the first place at the scene of the accident; what is also very important in this is that they are voluntary firefighters, and one pinch of firefighters who are employed, but also with these firefighters there is no way to reach an agreement. And I hope that, at least today, the President of the Government will be able to agree and to deploy firefighters with some agreement to pay grade. I know that the salaries of firefighters do not come from the state budget, they go from the budget of local communities, but I hope that there will be no problem of placing firefighters in wage classes, at least for the President it should not be. If I stay with employees and wages for a while. I remember Minister Koprivnik, who in 2014 at a hearing with such enthusiasm said that he was fighting and that we would get some lean public administration. I imagined that this would be something slim, probably everyone now imagines for themselves what a lean public administration is; but this slim public administration has cost us 300 million and 3,000 new employees in the mandate of this government. Or if I say otherwise, in 2014, we spent one billion 70 million on civil servants' salaries, and in 2018 we have a billion 227; that is 250 million. It's a thin public administration. But if I keep looking at transfers to public institutions. In 2014 – billion 654, in 2018 – billion 815; a total of 115 million more. It's a thin public administration. I'm not even talking about agencies and institutes here, as many as there are in 2014. Finally, we stop and somehow stop at firefighters, who need to be redistributed and somehow reconciled into appropriate wage classes. We had the same thing in 2016 when we were talking about cops here, and I don't know what the problem was. Interestingly, however, it is not a problem to establish an institution, to set up nice salaries and so on. If I stop for more education. My colleague in front of me was talking about how important it is, blah blah blah blah blah blah blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. This year we were all - I don't think he's here among us who wouldn't be happy if our basketball players had achieved that they were European champions - very happy about it. Our fellow citizens also warned me and said, "Hope, weren't you ashamed when the Minister handed these basketball players a 50 000-euro voucher at the Ljubljana reception?"Oh, my God! Our basketball players have brought the name of Slovenia into the world. 50,000 euros. If we think about how much this comes to one, five plus five is ten, and there are professionals, two thousand, two thousand, 500 euros max. On the other hand, I wonder how much it cost, how much it went from our budget when our representatives went down and watched this game. How much did they spend? We're probably on an individual there about 2,000, 500, we know the cards are very expensive. I doubt they got paid. The priorities mentioned in 2018, as I said before, are health. Long waiting lines, we know, are a big problem. You've spent 18 million here. Last year 15 million for the elimination of long waiting lines, and we see that they have essentially increased, the minister herself said that they did not bring these additional programmes of desired effects. The discussion was also about the transfer for the education of young doctors from the health department to the budget, 40 million for 2018. It's a transitional period, but I'm afraid it's some sort of blurry or some kind of money-lending between the health and the state budget. Finally, I fear that, after the end of the transitional period, there will in no way be enough money for our young doctors, who we already know are leaving because of pay and because of irregular relationships or bad relations abroad. Long-term care is full of mouths. The draft law is ready, I think it has already gone to public debate, and we are also reminded by Europe that it is necessary to adopt it. In Europe, we are among the first or the first to grow old very quickly. Mr Horvat asked the Minister at the meeting of the Committee whether the resources for long-term care were provided in the budget; she said that the long-term care in the budget was not particularly burdensome. I'm sorry, Comrade Prikl, that's probably what you asked; yes. Then what are we kidding about with this long-term supply? Looks like it. In our parliamentary group, the Minister is always reminded that funding for emergency medical care is not yet in order, and as a result, the losses of public health institutions are also that I do not touch pediatricians at all within the emergency medical care. It's palliative. You have a palliative written down as the fourth measure of your coalition contract, nor is a tolar to be seen in this budget. Loss of public health institutions, you predicted in this respect that they will no longer be in 2018. I will congratulate no one, all of you Members of the Coalition, if that happens, but it probably won't, or I'm sure it won't. There are no additional programmes in the budget for the elimination or prevention of suicide, about five hundred people per year, I think it is a small number, maybe 470 of our citizens from despair, and even though in Slovenia, between milk and milk, suicide is committed. In the field of road transport – and right, we know that the numbers are about 170 — we spend a lot of money annually, and so is the case. All I'm saying is that we don't do anything about suicide prevention. Even in clinical psychiatrists, there is a great dilemma and question because they do not know where they belong and how they are financed; and not to mention the long waiting lines. However, I am afraid that you will continue with this harmful legislation that we are adopting here this year in the National Assembly. We have been against every law that has been passed and we have assessed that it is harmful; but I am also afraid that you will be able to adopt or bring the Health and Health Insurance Act through this mandate. As we have seen in the adoption of the Law on Medical Services and the Law on Health Activities, if I have a little further contact with the Minister's interpretation that you, the coalition, will confirm everything that this Minister will submit to this State Assembly for the price of her own existence. There are no longer laws on the basis of profession, but on the basis of politics. Yesterday, one opposition member was asked by the President of the Government to open new jobs, work is sufficient and living standards are improving. Really? Which one of us believes that? 290,000 people below the poverty line and it would be very interesting to hear what the data is, how many people have been employed on the basis of these positive stories, how much security has been given to them on the basis of the opening up of new jobs and how much work is sufficient. Eighty-five thousand people are waiting at the employment facility. And while we are already looking at these investments, I know that all investments are not financed from the state budget, but if this is such an advantage, in 2014, we allocated a billion 25 for investments, 2018 – 944 million; 100 million less. Then it's a priority. I have already said in the introduction that the municipal budget is adopted on the basis of legal acts. Let me stop here at the actual property management plan. This is an act which is included in the budget documents and must be adopted together with the budget. But for two years now we've been finding that these decrees are just some pious desires, reality is bad; 3.6-5%, let's stop fooling around with these things. Any act annexed to the budget document shall not be made on the basis of certain wishes, but on the basis of the reality, how much money we have, how much money we buy, what we want to sell in the next or the next period, and how much we want to have for it. At the end of the year, I expect it to be more than 70%; not 3.6 or 5.6. The fact is, the country is poorly mastered with its property. The Court of Auditors has also warned, at least there is no indication that the State does not even have a record of its assets. Last year we heard that these records are somehow being made to be refined; but it is unacceptable that the state does not know what its property is. I will refer to yesterday's statement by the President of the Government when he said that work is enough, a healthy business environment and so on. And I'm asking if you think a healthy business environment is higher taxes. Those taxes that we adopted in 2012 have not yet been defrosted is this a healthy business environment? Are administrative barriers to a healthy business environment? A set of laws that burden our entrepreneurs? And corruption. Corruption is not only in health; corruption is highly intertwined in all areas. I would like to draw attention to some of the points that the Council of State has written in its opinion, which also does not support this budget. The Council of State has warned or I will say so; Article 11 of the Law on the Financing of the Communities provides that, prior to the submission of the State budget to the National Assembly, the Government shall conclude an agreement with representative associations on the average for the following financial year and the year following. But there's no deal, there's no deal. The government and the community association discussed the average of EUR 551,558 and so on, but the agreement was not finally reached because representatives of the municipalities did not accept this government proposal. Here I immediately remembered, for the last time the mayor of the neighbouring municipality told me that he was visiting one of the municipalities in Croatia. Croatia has changed the way municipalities are financed. This mayor of the neighbouring municipality tells me, “You know, in the municipality of Varaždin” is a municipality near Varaždin, “the mayor told me all too much that the country somehow overlooked the importance of local self-government and work within local communities and that municipality received 50% more funding for 2018”. However, we limit our municipalities when we know that they are a generator of the development of Slovenia, we burden them with giving them less or not giving them as much resources as we would need for their operations; and with additional, new tasks, which we set out by law, that municipalities should carry out. The Council of State also points out that we still do not have a basic document setting out the priorities for the development of Slovenia, which I have mentioned before, and I have not just mentioned that this government does not have a strategy. While the government says that a strategic document is in preparation to be adopted in December, it is the following month. I really want to know if he's going to be adopted and what this document is going to be like. I'd like to warn the coalition and the government here. I won't overdo it if I say it's the end of the term. The National Assembly also notes that there are no systemic incentives for a more economic-friendly environment. I mentioned earlier what should not be a kind encouragement; but all of this is happening with us. The Ministry of Economic Development is working to provide an enabling and predictable environment for investment. They are drafting a law that will equalise the promotion of domestic and foreign investment. I must say that I am very afraid that we will be surrounded by foreign people more than domestic investments. I'd love to be wrong. The Council of State also says that there is a lack of a fairer distribution of tax burdens. While reaching the tax burden of work is one of the priorities, I do not think success is quite a success. According to the European Commission, Slovenia deviates strongly from the average of European countries or is at the very top due to the over-the-average burden of work with contributions to work and social security contributions. I think this government should be very concerned. The National Council also recalls the government's statement, which estimates that a comprehensive reform of banking legislation, together with a successful resolution of the banking system, has contributed to increasing the confidence of the people in the banking system. Who believes me? A citizens' confidence survey in our banks would be very interesting, so I am not referring to a variety of affairs and so on. The Ministry of Labour states that it has ordered an analysis of the new social legislation and that it is necessary to verify the usefulness of social transfers and then approach certain changes on the basis of these. Dear colleagues, or the Ministry of Labour, you did this too late and ordered this analysis. And finally, I'm going to say, too late, too soon, but it's high time this term is over. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u31	Mr Franz Jurša has the following word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u32	Vice President, thank you for your word. Since we are dealing with the budget, I must, at the outset, say the fact that every budget, whether at local or national level, is a very important document for governance at local and also at national level. At the outset, I would say that I am simply and simply not most satisfied with the very process of adopting state budgets, as well as with this action that is taking place today in our Chamber. In some ways, I am sorry that the relationship between the executive branch and the National Assembly is the same as it is, with the presence of three secretaries, and in the final stage it is true that the Minister of Finance is likely to return in a short time. And if I turn to the parliamentary bench, I can see that there is no overinterest. Why? Because budgets should be adopted in a different way. A representative of the people, an MP more or less always speaks to the public, people hear him, they hear him. On the other hand, the executive branch of power is sitting in a government meeting room where there are no cameras; and the fingers are always pointed at us Members, but we have a key role to play in making decisions in fact. It is true that opposition Members say that the ruling coalition does not listen and does not accept their proposals. But when someone else is in this situation, the same thing happens. You know, I've been sitting in coalitions on the other side, and I know things. For me, this is with the local and state budgets included 14, 15, which I also co-accept during my political period, and in some cases, at local level, I was the host for the adoption of the municipal budget. I will concentrate normally and discuss pensions. I will not talk there in one day about all the areas, because I do not know them so thoroughly. I also listen to experts who talk, if someone has a speech, usually listen to it for 1 minute for 25 seconds, and then the absence of all those who participate and listen is somewhere away. However, in some ways, I am pleased that we have regularly coordinated pensions in this mandate, including very coordinated pensions, raised the retirement pension to EUR 500, all pensioners have also received regress this year, and will also receive it next year. But far away from this, I, as well as the parliamentary group in which I am, are not satisfied and believe me, that we will continue our efforts in this area, we will not stop here. Since I have listened closely to the views of the groups of Members, in two cases we have been exposed as such. In one case, there was talk of how much more to be done, but four times, five times, were repeated; on the other hand, someone said that we had coordinated pensions in the amount of one ice cream. Here. That's right. But I have to say that once we've coordinated our pensions, that even for the cornet in which the breeches can be found, the pensioners are not. This was in 2013 – 0.1%. But we've coordinated. Since I mentioned the matter of coordination a little earlier and how we should provide the funds, it is true that we should; but also in the past, despite what someone said was a difficult economic, economic situation in the country. That's what they were, too. But, my dears, during the debate held by Alenka Bratušek – or she presented the position of the parliamentary group in which she, the unrelated Members – is from 20. 3. 2013 to 18. 9. In 2014, pensions have been aligned so much, it's zero. Alenka Bratusek has a sure answer for this, but I still have to warn her about something. At the time, with the big shovels, we all threw a lot of money into the bottomless bank, and we had 3 billion 200 million for bank rehabilitation. Whether that was enough or too little or too much, experts today estimate; and most experts say that we have suffered too much. We've also invested 310 million in a bad bank. We have invested 870 million taxpayers' money in Nova Credit Bank Maribor. Dear God, we sold it for 250 million. 15 companies have been cutting down on us by the then government, which we have to sell. We Members were actually faced with the fact that, if we don't do this, the troika will come to Slovenia. And then, of course, we did. Among them is Helios, which was sold very quickly to Austrians for 145 million. They didn't go two years after the Austrians sold it to the Japanese for 572 million. If we had at least some of that money, as much as I mentioned earlier, respected and respected, we could also coordinate our pensions at some height, not zero. And once again, we've lost 3.2 billion euros to banks; 210 to a bad bank; we've invested 870 million in the New Maribor Credit Bank; we've sold it for 250. We sold Helios for 145 million Austrians, and the Austrians sold it to the Japanese for 572 million. Now I'm asking my colleague Alenko if, at that time, some of these funds could also be paid for pensions. It could have been, if a certain interest had been shown by the most responsible, that was the President of the Government. It is true that in the following year, less than €80 million will have to be allocated to the pension fund by the state budget, so that about 200 million will be allocated to the treasury by the state budget. This does not mean that pensioners will receive lower pensions. However, it is also true that it would be very correct for this part, as far as we give it out of the budget, to be given to pensioners, but not to remain in the global budget. It is not too much to point out in this place that the smaller state Trenosphere will not, as I said, affect lower pensions, but will in fact affect more contributions from more people who have been employed in the last period. And since the budget review every year causes floods of different debates and large supporters of pensioners, I invite them to participate in this, to participate constructively. I invite them to talk about these problems in our parliamentary group today, but they must not forget that they will also be in power, that they will then be as generous as they are now when they are in opposition, when they can share the words, and otherwise it will be a little more difficult when the real issue needs to be carried out. Because I said that usually those who participate in the debate listen to the speaker for 25 seconds, I will slowly conclude my debate. But I will say one more thing, I am aware of how many Slovenes and Slovenes live below the threshold of poverty, and I am also aware that there are many pensioners among these, and I am well aware of that too. However, I would like to stress another point that, from 1992 to last year, the average old pension has risen, you will not believe, by EUR 400. I would like to see that the pension growth trend continues successfully, so that our pensioners can properly survive the last part of their lives; therefore, I invite you all to cooperate in this matter together.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u33	The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Today we are considering the budget for 2018 and 2019. The 2018 budget is a financial part, but behind these figures there are many things, hiding on one side the objective of this budget, hiding a vision if we have a vision, hiding also all recipients of this budget and hiding all those who will ensure that the recipients of the budget will receive this money, that is, the widest said taxpayers. That's how it's supposed to be simplified. From this point of view, every budget can be very good, but it can be very bad. And the question is whether it is good or bad; they are measuring what a good budget means and what a bad budget means. The two objectives were stated by the Minister of Finance in her opening statement on the budget, namely to reduce debt and deficits and to have direction that this government will have a focus on the long-term sustainability of public finances, these are two macro-economic objectives. The two macroeconomic objectives here are not a problem, they are not problematic; the question is whether these are the real targets or not, because the role of the State in this budget is around 44%, 44% of the public finances, if I simplify, if I add up to the cash and municipal budgets. The country manages 44% of gross social product and we are somewhere in the middle of Europe on this issue. But whether the goal is indeed the sustainability of public finances and what it actually means. I think that the goal of each budget should be to make it easy for people to live better. And what will this 2018 budget do to make people live better? I'm not gonna say it here like my colleague Bratusek quoted the government as predicting a happier life by 2050, according to her words. I think that this budget and no budget will increase people's happiness, but it can provide them with a better life; and this is not the case here. This is not because the Minister has also mentioned that we have to pay or that this budget will pay what is simply legal, for which there are already laws. Yeah, but we're here and the government is the one who's proposing changes to these laws. Of course, there are no problems here, the budget is not just numbers, the budget is actually an element that is supposed to provide people with a better life. The last one from this budget does not actually appear, the question is how much will be spent on one project, the second project, the third project, the fourth project; but how many people will actually have of it. And if we look at the numbers, then we can figure out that this budget is rich in numbers, rich in revenue, because today we have this global economic situation, where there is a lot of revenue, where there is a lot of spending, where high economic growth, is also projected for Slovenia; but that does not mean that people will live better. That is true, even the whole world has increased economic growth year after year, so those countries that have not yet developed have 4.6% economic growth, and the whole world has 3.6% economic growth. The lowest economic growth, if we look at it this way, has Europe, the European Union – 2.3% and the Eurogroup – 2.1% of economic growth. Among these countries, Slovenia is ahead of 4%, but what has already been mentioned here has to be said, but it is being overtaken by some other countries such as Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and so on, which does not mean that we can be satisfied with this. And if we have economic growth in Slovenia and in the world, then with this budget and with the objectives of this government, it would be right to predict or make the reforms needed to live better in worse times. This was also a message from the International Monetary Fund, by Mrs Christine Lagarde. In short, we live in a time of plenty, so take measures in the country for times when this abundance will be gone. This government will not do this, and this government is unable to do so. And this has not been done, so people still have problems and worse lives in the field of health, social policy, education; it has not been able to do so. As a result, the numbers are only numbers that will be realized in one way or another; whereas the content itself will not be, in fact, because the government does not propose and does not propose and will not propose for the election of substantive measures. She didn't do it, and she didn't do what she actually promised. Health care and health care is a product of all these measures. Notwithstanding the additional 136 million allocated to health, the waiting lines have not decreased. Someone wrote the news, put it on the network to be his daughter's first review at the orthodontist in 2020. Such are the waiting periods; we can look at official statistics to see if we have made a mistake. Here's the charm of all these billions, there's the charm of these millions, to actually, with these millions, to improve the quality of people's lives with these billions. If we look at how much money this government has at its disposal, then we can see that this is a good billion more than it had at its disposal in 2016. However, we cannot say at the same time that this government has agreed with all those who are consumers of this money. That's not how she made a deal with the congregations. And so we have a basic law that determines what the average is, the number 652 euro, the government will spend EUR 2018 – 551 and EUR 558 in 2019. The difference is still around 100 euros. And there is no agreement with the congregations, no agreement with the congregations has been made for several years. And if we look again at this criterion that I set here — a better, better quality of life for people, then we can see that people realize the highest quality of life where they live, in the congregation. But this government will not do so by providing at least the average set out in the basic law. As a result, macroeconomic indicators are one and real life is completely different. And this actual life reflects the budget of this government and this coalition – and this is not here. There is no hearing to take into account the suggestions made by the mayors to simply find some consensus here, regardless of the fact that the money is sufficient. Even if more money were given to the municipalities and this improved the quality of life for the people, there would be no problems in the area of public finances, no problems. There are some government trenches, some principles, something that there is no way to do something, it has been impossible to do this for several years; but this has been dealt with by various commissions in the National Assembly, various committees, but this consensus between municipalities and the mayors and the Ministry of Finance or Government, I will just say, directly, it is not. Everyone stands on their trenches. The next issue, which was a lot of talk, is pensioners and this mathematics, which is very simple. The budget gives some 100 million per year to the pension fund to pay pensions. This has been the case for several years, if not a decade, because the income from contributions is actually too low. And since higher incomes are also contributory pension bills, the budget now gives less money. He's not going to give it a billion and a half years ago, but now he's going to give it a billion 200, a billion 100, or whatever, it's actually going to go down. But that's why the pension won't be any smaller, but it won't be any bigger. Pensioners are those who have had long years of frozen pensions, long years, two, three years; and in fact nothing has happened here. And we're in a state where the pension just isn't high enough for people to live normally. This was also said by Desus, who stated in his opinion that what is in this budget is “the beginning of a final goal and every pensioner... will receive a pension that will provide him with a decent life”; in this final objective. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot discuss today that people do not have a decent life because we have allocated too little money to them in the budget. This simply sets Desus as a goal – a decent life for pensioners. Ladies and gentlemen, where is this objective, when will this objective be achieved? How will this objective be achieved? This has not been said today in the position of the Desus Group; only that they will once have pensioners to have a decent life. Tell me when it'll be done and in numbers. If these are numbers, those in the budget, then this is too small, then it's just too small, then those are empty words. Here I turn to Desus because he advocates pensioners, because Mr Jurša has also mentioned that he will talk about pensioners, Mr Provoked in his position that once the pensioners will have a decent life. If you say so much, tell them for the first time that they don't have it today, we know it; and by when and how they will actually have it. You are part of this government, you can already guarantee a decent life for pensioners within this government. Today we have almost 5% economic growth, revenue is up by 1 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, regardless of the crisis in 2012 and 2013, no matter what you recall, today is no longer a reason for us to have bigger pensions here today and now. Today this is no longer a reason, the years are passing, they have gone and the recollection of 2012, 2013, probably for some economic historians, will soon be so. The world did not even end in 2012 and 2013. From this point of view, I think there should be some extra effort here, but that's my opinion. The amendments were given, the amendments were rejected on the committees, they were repeatedly rejected, not only in the budget, but also in other laws, nothing is likely to happen here. The next question is the so-called B balance sheet and the sale or non-sale of NLB. We can again look at the number and the Minister of Finance will say that the direct effect of selling or not selling NLB is not on this budget. Emphasis is on the direct effect. Whatever happens, some special fund, I read what the media says. You may say, Your Honor, that this is not true what the media says, I know; then you give the information that is real. I argue that the indirect effect of non-sales of NLB will already be on the budget by not respecting the agreement with the European Union, this will be an indirect effect if we talk about it. We can only talk about numbers, we can only talk about accounting numbers up and down; but no, here's the content. Which, in other words, means that, for the first time, it is necessary to say why these negative indirect effects should occur, what has now changed, what is now different. And how does the European Commission view the non-sale of the New Ljubljana Bank, how does it view the breach of the agreement with the European Commission? This is not enough for the members of the National Assembly, at least for me to get information that Juncker listened to the President of the Government with understanding. It's a pianist story. It is also important to remember a better pianist story because I do not think it was; if he listened with understanding, then the matter would be resolved. This way it is not solved and so it is not known what dividends we will receive, not in 2018, but what dividends we will get from Nova Ljubljanska banka in 2019 in the budget. They cannot be assessed either, because if the European Commission starts selling part of the New Ljubljana Bank, part of the group, then the dividends are likely to be smaller; but this is a direct effect. The indirect effect is that the ratings are likely to be lower and that Slovenia may be considered a non-verbal country. There is no great philosophy here, it is a question of trust, whether we in Europe can afford not to keep our word. That's the first question, for no reason at all. How do you justify this non-compliance in Brussels? How do you do that? From this point of view, this has an impact on the budget, both direct and indirect. The second is the question – if not all of these goals are not now for people to live better – which I have now put to myself, whether they will live better because of the budget or not. Here, information on going abroad, especially young people, shows how much they believe in this government. Collegiate Beauty Šimenko has already mentioned some of the statistics that you can get from the Statistical Office are on the website, about how many young Slovenians believe in this country – 8 000 800 young Slovenian citizens go abroad every year. This information is valid for 2016, ladies and gentlemen. And then, of course, there will come, yes, 13,000 800 foreigners will come. Slovenia granted a thousand 297 nationals in 2016. What all this means for Slovenia, for the state of Slovenia, I wouldn't talk about it this time. Again, it is a question of trust whether people believe this government; and it seems they do not believe. This is also shown by surveys by which 20% believe in the government of Mir Cerar; or 25%, I apologize if I am not entirely accurate in these percentages. But if there is no government with this trust budget, if young people are the indicators that show mistrust, then such a budget is, of course, questionable – the budget or the objectives of the budget or the policy, the vision of this budget. Here is actually the question of what this money is meant for, 45% of everything we have created in Slovenia is in here. Do these people have any of this, that's the question. Or would you like more quality in this regard? I think that this budget will be adopted, accepted by the coalition, probably by autumn next year. The question is what will the new government do with it and how the government will accept it or not accept it; whether it will fix it immediately. But if we take as a criterion a better life for people, then this budget here has a negative assessment. If we take the criterion of greater economic growth, public finance coherence, probably drinking water, but we need to look here at the people and their well-being in this country. That is why I will not support this budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u35	I give the floor to Mrs Mag's Minister of Finance. Matei Vranictor Erman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Allow me to respond to some of the questions or claims that have been raised. Certainly numbers and even budgets are not intended for themselves. They have their goal and their purpose, their vision. Better people's lives – certainly; but we must ask ourselves whether it is within the power of the government or the state budget to ensure direct transfers to individuals in the first place, whether it is primarily the task of the state budget to create conditions in which each person can earn enough to live with dignity in his own work. In other words, do we want to be a good company that will support every individual's vision of whether we want to be a transfer society? I vote first. Yes, in every way, it is necessary to help people who need help; and this is ensured through transfers to individuals and households, a major part of these transfers of individuals and households. The two draft budgets that are ahead of us also pay attention to this part of the state budget expenditure. However, we must also be concerned in this area that we know how to reconcile our wishes with the economic power of the country. In the past, it's warm because we've spent more than we've created; and by doing so, we've accumulated the debt of the state budget for which we're paying high interest today. While they are high and still high in the 2018 and 2019 budgets, they are significantly reduced by 2016 and this year as a result of appropriate action in the area of government debt management. Drawing on European funds. It is true that only 2% of Slovenia has been certified and we cannot be satisfied. By daily coordination of activities between all ministries, we hunt or ensure that in the last weeks of this year or already the certification is being accelerated. However, if we are talking about the allocation or actual use of European funds, we must conclude that we are among the more successful countries of the European Union that receive cohesion policy funds. Of the three billion already allocated, 363 contracts have been awarded for a billion 290 and paid out of the state budget, because certain services have already been made, things delivered, certain phases of individual projects have been completed, for 214 million. Our first concern in the last two months of this year is mainly about paying out the majority, as said in the amount of €214 million, we also get paid back to the state budget through certification. With regard to European funds, it should also be noted that the operational programme is being amended in the final phase. We expect the European Commission's agreement in December, which will allow for further agreement on the development of the regions. However, since it is necessary to ensure not only that sufficient resources are made available to both developing regions in the allocation of funds, it is also necessary to ensure that these funds are spent. That we will not be re-emerged on what happened in the old financial perspective when most of the spending was accumulated in the last two, three years of implementation of the financial perspective; and this is why investments, investment funds and investment transfers were planned at a lower level in 2018 than was the realisation of such expenditure in 2014. At that time, the old financial perspective was most intensively concluded and, therefore, such a major breakthrough. The burden of working in the Republic of Slovenia is above the average of the European Union, but not as high above the average as mentioned. When we talk about the burden of work, we need to distinguish between the taxes we pay from our work or our wages and our contributions. Contributions are often seen as something that the state takes away from us; however, the important difference between taxes and contributions is that our own contributions are our own resources, which we choose to devote to public health and to public pensions. These are insurance assets, not state funds, which are much too forgotten. And if we want a change in the level of contributions, we need to ask again what level of public health services we want and what level of public pension we want. Just pleading for lowering contributions and reminding us how high these contributions are at our cost of work, and not saying what we want to do as a society in the area of social security rights, unfortunately, does not drink water. And when we talk about migrant workers, we must not forget that this government was the one that provided a special regime to deal with their incomes, to recognize their special position due to work abroad and to return to Slovenia on a daily basis. However, they also need to ask what is the EUR 10,000 earned by the worker working in Austria, different from the EUR 10,000 earned by the worker working in Slovenia. There are different jobs for such an annual payment, but when we talk about taxation, we are talking about the amount each of them deserves. We can say that 2012 is just a year for economic historians, but the consequences of economic policy from that period are still visible and still being eliminated and will be essentially a while longer. That is why, even when we consider today's budget documents, we must also return to 2012, in 2007, in 2009 or 2010, and draw attention to the mistakes that have taken place at the time; only with one aim not to repeat these mistakes today. Speaking of municipalities, we have proposed an average of the highest in all periods so far for 2019. Never before have they received an average of more than €558. The average for the following year is in line with the basic premise of the Law on the financing of municipalities that 54% of the income collected in the preceding year should be available to the municipalities for payment of legal obligations. And the EUR 551 average per citizen ensures this. However, the resources available in the state budget on the expenditure side have been allocated to expenditure on investments in municipalities. And from this point of view, I assess that the proposal to provide funding for the tasks of municipalities, as included in the 2018 and 2019 budget, is appropriate. And last of all, as regards the privatisation procedures of the New Ljubljana Bank, when planning the budget, you can take into account predictable revenues, predictable costs, predictable revenues when planning. In this context, the budget shall also take into account the predictable income from NLB dividends. All the other implications will have to be identified in the next budget debates; I believe that there will be an opportunity for a more detailed discussion on these privatisation procedures at a meeting of the Public Finance Supervisory Commission, which has already been convened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u37	Mag. Andrey Shircelj has a replica. Then we'll have another report. Here you go, mag. Spread out.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u38	Thank you very much. The minister mentioned that she was more committed to creating conditions for a better life than for direct transfers to individuals. Yes, I agree, but only this government, by increasing tax rates, has certainly not created better living conditions. You increased VAT or cemented that provisional measure into the law. You have introduced an additional tax on financial and insurance services, a higher tax on corporate income. It doesn't improve the conditions, but it does make a lot of difference. It's not like that. That's what I'm talking about. There are no reform measures, no measures for a better life, no health measures anywhere. This tells you about the structural deficit on the one hand, and this is what Mrs Lagarde of the IMF tells you that it is necessary to do so. And this government didn't do it, it didn't do its homework. There's nothing here that would make life better in the long run. This is a replica of what this government has done. We could talk about it long and wide. Yes, taxes and contributions are different. Contributions have their own purpose. But contributions are for an individual to provide health care or a pension. I doubt most people think they're paying for their contributions and their goal is to pay for public health care, as you say. But everyone wants to have proper health care so they can get there as soon as possible, so they won't wait for a specialist and so on. This is their goal, not to provide money for public health. This concept is also quite vague to me what the provision of public health care is, for whom and how; especially if we know how many things, irregularities also happen in public health. From this point of view, I agree, but here too, it is necessary to ask — and injustice. Then we run here with a lot of problems that we have here. And now the memory of the past, whether it's economic history or not. I kind of agree with you, too, you have to look at not to make mistakes, and you have to look at these events. However, life did not begin at that time. Life didn't start then. Putting everything in this context is completely different. I see that Mr Trček has already warned you, Mr Vice-President, I will immediately conclude my last thought. This is where we need to move on. The budget is designed to show this vision, shows this goal; it is not actually in here, it is not in there.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Please sign up for the debate. The word is Mrs. Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. I will focus on health care and on one of the amendments that I have proposed, but unfortunately it has not been adopted for the third or fourth time; not in previous budgets, but not now. Mr Jurša said that the state budget and the local budget are important. Of course, they are important, as is important, for example, the budget you set for yourself in your household, but it seems that the state behaves as said by Mrs Marija Milojka Kolar Celarc, when she says she has provided 35 million for a new emergency in Ljubljana. Nothing was assured by the Minister, not by the National Assembly, nor by the President of the Government; but by the taxpayers. Obviously, the government is unaware of this, because in certain budget lines it behaves as it should not. It should behave as the Minister says, that the numbers have their goal, that the numbers on certain budget lines, for example for health care, mean that a good society, good public health and so on is being established. The numbers or money, which I think has been flying through the window for quite some time, and even more in the last term or mandate of this government, certainly does not create better public health or does not work as the Minister said. Recent OECD research for 2016 shows that we spend more than comparable countries in Slovenia in the proportion of GDP for health care. According to other indicators, it is difficult to say that the money that taxpayers give to health is given on purpose or that better public health is being established. Far from it. Last year or this year, the Ministry of Health provided $18 million for the reduction of waiting periods, and waiting periods have been extended permanently in those two, three years of the mandate of Mary Milojka Kolar Celarc. Now we have about 56,000 people waiting for an unacceptable length of time; the minister still claims that it is money that will save the waiting period. And in the budget for next year, a new item, again with 18 million, no indicators, no back analyses, at least those that would show a positive trend in reducing waiting periods. This is one item that shows that what the Minister of Finance is saying is far from that. So in public health, money is spent untransparently and far from improving the situation. Then 136 million over the intervention law, this money will not help improve public health; it will help to recover certain suppliers and will continue to sell material to Slovenia at high prices. I do not see anywhere in the budget's explanation that there would be any measure in the coming years, any law that would no longer allow it; it would not help to reduce the deficit in hospitals. Minister Kolar Celarc has done nothing in this area. But if he is, he can't say it. Everything she says says says how many millions she has spent for public health; however, we see what collapse is taking place today in UKC Ljubljana, and the last days will still be. The money allocated to the health sector in the budget, I would not be too proud of it because you prefer to analyze what has improved in public health over the past year's budget of over 260 million. Where are the public health improvement indicators? By the Ministry of Finance, I don't know if my conclusion is that there is no improvement in public health or that they are indicators of improvement in public health. Because citizens who have made contributions that I think are too high for what they get, what has been said to be too high contributions, in this sense that they do not get quality, quality public health for what they have paid. Today, many people ask why I pay these contributions, why my employer makes contributions if he ends up in a row of three years or even has to go to a private person. The next issue is the Medical Services Act, which was literally launched by the Ministry of Health into the National Assembly and confirmed by the Coalition, namely the transfer of funds from the health treasury to the budget for the financing of specialisations and traineeships. This year or 2018, there are 40 million, then it increases to 60 and 80 million; but when you look at the explanations for the Ministry of Health, there are no indicators. How many specialties, how many traineeships – nothing, nothing. It says nothing under the indicators. If the Health Insurance Office said that in 2017, for the purposes of specialisation and payment of traineeships, estimated at around 79 million, we round up to 80 million, 40 million went to the budget now, 40 million remained on the health insurance company. Thus, at the health insurance company, the 40 million funds currently on the budget remain to reduce waiting periods. This has been said — for services, programs designed to reduce waiting periods, this is also explained by the Medical Services Act. Now look, 18 million from the budget, 40 million from the health insurance company to shorten the waiting period. At this point, I would ask again for the health of the Prime Minister and the Minister in particular, the indicators so far for all millions who have gone to shorten waiting periods are zero or negative. It will now be allocated 60 million in 2017-2018 to reduce waiting periods and still nothing. And today, the minister at the opening of the emergency room in Ljubljana – where you can read that there is not even a system in place, as it should be, that doctors don't even know where there is anything in the emergency room, that I won't list all things – says: I have guaranteed 35 million. The Ministry of Finance, and the Ministry of Health as a whole, should ask questions about such statements, and the Minister shall only distribute them. And now she's going to distribute so much money, for a supplier of 136 million, to shorten the waiting period of 60 million, and public health in total collapse, because obviously money, and now it's proven, isn't everything. However, there are no measures by the Ministry of Health; for this money they now give from the budget or taxpayers, they would receive quality public health. There is no such thing, and there will be no more. I would not boast at the point of the coalition that they have made more money or that they will vote for such a budget that they will give more to public health because there are no measures. And if you read again the explanations of the budget for the Ministry of Health, look at the number of chapters in which the indicators are nothing, initial and final, you don't even know where they're going. You don't know about specializations, once again. And this is what young doctors have also warned that every year will be negotiated, for how many specialties there will be enough money, will not be enough money. And more and more young doctors will leave, that's what they told you. And no wonder that at the end of the term this number of young doctors, as well as all the other people who have been educated in Slovenia, who have gone abroad, will be so much higher than at the beginning of your term of office. One more thing I want to know is that the budget on the NRP for Health says that the hospital Celje is looking for a new 5 million in 2018 and then in 2019 an additional 8 million for new construction. I'd like to know what kind of new construction this is. Is this the realization of that statement made by Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc at the opening of the emergency centre in Celje, when she said that the emergency centre was now built, dedicated to use. Regarding the General Hospital Celje, however, it is better to build a hospital on a new location. This was a statement going to the Ministry of Health's analies. Place the emergency center at the location next to the hospital and then say to the hospital, because it's so old, build it on another location. This can only be said by the Minister in the style of Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc. That's why I want to know what this 5 million 800 is, that's the number, that's the negative 6 million, and then that's 8 million for the new construction. If this is about rebuilding old work at Celje Hospital, I would say it is definitely necessary, but it is a reconstruction or reconstruction. And that says new construction. I want to know what new constructions this is all about. The next issue, about the health budget, would be a lot more to say, but I think it is clear to everyone, even the coalition, that, with regard to what is happening in health care, we can have another debate, including in terms of budget and overall health. It would therefore also touch on the 2018 amendment I have proposed. It is a state road in which Minister Gasperšič has promised me since the beginning of my mandate that reconstruction will begin, that in 2017 the land will be redeemed and the road will be reconstructed. This is the Down-Ponikva-Ponikva road. It is a road which is also mandatory when the Celje–Maribor motorway is closed. At that time, there are quite a number of cars and freight traffic along this road through the village. The road is in such a state that they don't even asphalt it anymore, but they're laying concrete now. According to the local word, they are flickering in this style that when asphalt is left on a local road, it goes on this state road and falls slightly on the bank from the asphalt truck. And it's actually in such a state that it would really be better if it was still macadam. This road has been in the NRP since 2008 in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Mr Gasperšič, Minister, did not promise to answer my parliamentary questions here in the National Assembly, to begin a reconstruction in one part this year and to redeem the land. According to my information, none of this is true. You will not believe that the funds on this budget item have been moving forward since 2008. And this year, it's going to be 50,000 euros, the next year it's 30,000, and in 2021 it's going to be 18 million. What the ministers are telling us, they are answering Members' questions to start some work, that money is meant for, is larifari. These parliamentary questions and the answers are inconceivable, for these promises, which we are hearing from the opposition Members, are incredible. I have put these amendments for this road in all budgets on my own several occasions. For 2018 and 2019 too, I made a reallocation of funds from the public administration to the reconstruction of this road of first EUR 300,000 and then EUR 600,000 in the following year. And the Ministry or the government replied that this amendment was rejected because it was an intervention in the planned obligations of the Ministry of Public Administration, if that money was needed for the execution of certain services and for the salaries of employees. You are talking about a slim public administration, about reducing administration; at the same time, you are rejecting me because you simply need money for wages, carrying out some activities; a slim public administration; and reducing red tape is not a speech. Why am I disappointed that this amendment, I thought, was not adopted in the previous years? Since Mrs Kolesa, a member of the Modern Centre Party from the same congregation as I, explains on the ground what her activities are about and that this road will be reconstructed sooner or later to work in this area, the amendment rejects. Mr. Cerar is driving to Shentjur to his maid of honor. I hope that he will ever take this road, and perhaps he will pass by to come to Šentjur, or he will come to realize that this road really needs reconstruction. I ask the coalition MPs who are from these regions, who drive here when there is traffic, what light heart you press against such an amendment. It is not true what Jurša said to the opposition to the amendment, but because you know they will not be accepted in advance, because the government is shaping the state budget and we have no influence in the National Assembly. That's not true! We in the National Assembly have influence. If there's nothing else, if we give the amendments, we can make a difference. But since the coalition is devoted to what the government says, it is. It is not true, as Mr Jurša says, that the opposition amendments have never been complied with. That's not true! Mr Jurša has long been in politics, and I am one mandate, and I know this is not true. And let him look back, that in the time of our government, even later, the opposition amendments were respected. And such a vehement interpretation – the opposition, you have no say, your amendments are pointless or unnecessary; this was also said on the Health Committee, where one of the coalition members of the Modern Centre Party said: "Accept this, you are the opposition, we will not follow your suggestions. And that's it. After I've told you many times, you don't need the opposition. It is the same in health care where we propose certain changes, but they are not heard. Today, the coalition, you have what you have, what you have in UKC Ljubljana and what you have in the Ministry. And I wouldn't press against the amendments and against the opposition's proposals with such an easy heart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor; please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u42	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! In the presentation of budgets, it always becomes the most important information in the introduction by the President of the Government or the Minister of Finance on the growth of gross domestic product, thereby creating this gross domestic product or what contributes most to the growth of this product. For many years, exports of the Slovenian economy have taken first place. The economy and export of products is crucial for economic growth in Slovenia, therefore for jobs and also for good sources of budget adoption and then for the distribution of funds to cover all public needs. Another factor that is very important is the consumption of the population. If we are aware that these are two key indicators for how we will draw up budgets, then it is also imperative to develop solutions in laws that will be adopted in the future, or have been taken before that, or decisions that have not been made on the legal basis and have caused a lot of problems in the economy and households. I will only briefly highlight the still very topical problem of calculating the bank hole in Slovenia. It is still trying to make an impression that all the way to the cent has been accurately calculated and that all those who point out the problem of over-calculation, the excessive volume of the bank hole, we are trying to be only populist and unrealistic; but the fact simply shows that the capital adequacy of the banks that we have supported is thus significantly higher than in all other banks in the European Union. However, I will not continue to refer to this subject, but I am only warning because the very source of the recapitalisation of banks was debt. And if you needlessly owe yourself too much, of course, you also pay for an unnecessaryly higher interest. I estimate that Slovenia is still paying around EUR 200 million too much interest due to the loans hired, including due to the miscalculated bank hole. So we have the opportunity to make it very simple to take action on this, with regard to finding out what was right and what was wrong. Here he has all the information from Banka Slovenije and the Ministry of Finance to resolve this matter in a very short time and relieve the budget. A further measure, which is related to how we will continue to maintain successful economic growth and consumption of the population, is also linked to the current law that came into the procedure of the National Assembly. It's a so-called law on mass property valuation. Cheap excuses if it is not a matter of taxation of property, that it is not a matter of paying the tax, is completely unfair to people, for this law on the mass valuation of property brings about a system that will then join taxation. And this system is wrong to try to take into account the importance of economic growth for all that is produced by the economy, as well as the consumption of households or residents. The Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estates, if adopted, will provide that someone who has very high or above-average property will pay a lower tax; those who have a sub-average value of real estate will pay a higher tax because the average value based on these models provided for in this Act is so calculated. If someone pays a higher tax because he will raise the value of his property or apartment, the house, he will carefully consider whether he will invest his money and savings in restoration or not. Because if he invests his money in reconstruction, he'll pay a higher tax. Both have a negative impact on economic growth. If there is no consumption, economic growth will fall, fewer products will be sold, the economy will have problems, and as a result, because of higher taxation, people will also spend less. This law is definitely going in the wrong direction and it will be visible then in the budgets if the law is adopted, which will follow as corrections to these budgets that we are adopting today. And if we are aware of what is important for successful development, then such a law should simply not enter the procedure in the National Assembly, because it will have negative consequences, harmful consequences for development. If I add to this the situation of the elderly when they build their home, they build it when they get paid, when they are most able to implement this life project. When he retires, he will receive a higher tax in this case, with a drastically smaller pension than he was paid; and again, people will be in distress. This will have an impact on the older population. As far as younger people are concerned, so are they. When you want to realize your goal in life, decide to buy an apartment or maybe even build a house, the value of this house and apartment will be the highest when you buy it. And then, on the basis of this law, the tax will be the highest. Besides, when you go to construction, not only as young, but probably as others, but if I'm talking about young people in particular, he'll probably go with a loan. So at first, he will have a very heavy burden on him due to the payment of the loan and, on the other hand, a very heavy burden on him due to the payment of the tax to be made by the Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estates. Again, we are in the process of reducing population consumption, which is crucial for what will be economic growth and thus gross domestic product in the future. The following things that should be cleared in Slovenia in order to have even better budgets certainly concern governance. Otherwise, we are talking about state property, although I think it is right that we also clear this issue and tell people honestly that it is the common private property of all citizens and citizens; and that this transition from social to state has never been made and that it is the common private property of all citizens and citizens. But it's cheap selling, selling, selling in tax havens. This does not contribute to economic growth. And if we also look at the system of operation of the bad bank, and we have decided that the worst option is that 70% of all credits hired, which were characterized as bad, although many of them were also completely good and paid off on a regular basis, is left in that bank hole that I mentioned at the outset, for which we are also paying interest today 200, 300 million, after unnecessary so high. But where do these bad claims go? The weak bank even allows it to write an additional 10% at this 70%. Excuse me, this is a direct damage to the state budget. And when you sell that bad claim to someone in a tax haven, it means that our people or companies, businesses that are just bad banks in this system, are paying off, paying off the rest of their claims to someone in a tax haven. So the money's going out of Slovenia. And this is a system that exhausts the Slovenian economy and the Slovenian budget. If I add to this system of tax havens in addition to a bad bank a Slovenian state holding company, such as Telekom, Petrol and banks, in short, everything that is in management and has a very important contribution to economic growth as state-owned enterprises within the Slovenian State holding company, you will find that these companies also point their funds to tax havens. The Slovenian state holding company will not prevent this. He also directly damaged the state budget, but for the prize we are peacefully watching Mrs Lidija Glavina, President of the Slovenian State Holding Board, appoint herself President of the Supervisory Board in Telekom. But the same Telekom has earmarked money into the tax haven. Really harmful ways of managing the country, especially with our property, which contribute to making budgets significantly worse than they could actually be. And when we listen to the postal closure reports, however, mail is a compulsory economic public service, and this is what we need to allow people to live in more remote places in conditions that allow them all the conditions – from schooling, access to banking services, and access to postal services. Daily we can listen to the closing of the post office in the Loške Potok, before that in other places. And what happened in the middle? Slovenian state holding company sells with Novo Credit Bank Maribor also Post Bank. The postal bank is the one who made profits in this mail system. Something that brings profits is sold into the tax haven, and now we're cutting people off from accessing postal services. A completely wrong approach and again at the expense of people. And if I add to this a very important activity – banks that should connect and service the economy as well as the people with their commitments given without a legal basis, because no one in Slovenia had a legal basis to give any commitment to limit the functioning of our banks, nor did the European Commission to give the condition that we have to sell these banks; neither one has a legal basis for doing so. Nevertheless – we do not point out this issue to prevent – our banks do not actually finance the economy because they have poorer conditions because of these commitments than other foreign banks. We are running out of money again, to foreign banks, to foreign owners and again to lower economic growth than it would have been if banks could service our export economy. And congratulations to the economy because it's just organized! Whether they borrow money between companies themselves or rent loans in foreign banks to achieve such envious export results as they actually record. And in all of this, the question of timely and sufficient investment in science and development is again and again. It is clear from the data that in recent years it has been extremely affected in the field of science, that basic research is not carried out at the level it should be; and, consequently, we are also losing the possibility of obtaining new young researchers who will tell us what needs to be done in order to create even greater economic growth in Slovenia. These investments are only slowly increasing, and these two budgets are slightly increasing, but for at least half less than they were expected from research and science, at least half less. But it is those 20 million that should be added in 2018 and 2019; no amount which would be uncontrollable to the development of science and to the development of young experts is extremely important and also promising. These investments in research and development are in fact still far below what Slovenia should do to remain competitive and independent of others who are trying to impose on us in one way or another a development model that is not based on our success but on the success of those who offer us this development model. And it is certainly necessary to add to this the tendering system in Slovenia, and the minimum price system is still in place. But this system of lowest prices brings that someone who provides that service, that job, has to do it at the lowest cost. As a rule, this is far from what would be normal for someone who has the right education to receive a payment in return. And to a large extent, this system of public procurement at the lowest cost means that we have people who receive very low wages for the work they do. And here we are again at that point – less than getting paid, less spending and again creating greater economic growth. Why, however, does this public procurement system not change in the way that at least one comparable system is introduced, as is the case in Austria; however, it makes sense to establish a system of average value that I have previously tried to interpret in the mass valuation of real estates. You determine the value of the invitation to tender and according to these offers — medium value means some obstacle that you actually need to negotiate. Only 20% of the higher bid and 20% of the lower bid is the one you then try to analyse and select the contractor. By doing so, you will preserve the ability to truly choose a provider with knowledge that has its own technology, which can then also do its job in a qualitative manner. The lowest prices, in addition to paying people poorly, also mean trying to use some additional parts, with some principles of blackmail to cover the cost that was; and here we open the way for corruption. The lowest price is the pressure on the road to corruption, but corruption is the one that destroys economic growth, which dramatically interferes with how carefully, for the first time, we spend public funds, and for the second time that we also have a legal source of budget charging from this consumption. With all these facts that we face in Slovenia, which could also be effectively eliminated in a very short time, the 2018 or 2019 budget would certainly be at least one billion higher, perhaps even higher. Because when you have a system that is neat and transparent, of course, it's much easier for everyone to decide about investment, investment. You get stable conditions that you can then also detect in stable sources of income to the budget and also then cover all those obligations we have – to the tax box, to the health checkbook, to education, to pensions and so on. In these budgets, it is very clear how important it is that we create good economic growth, that we create more jobs, how much the budget is drained because of the difference that the system has to provide, say, to the pension fund. These two budgets make it very clear how beneficial it is to have economic growth and if we also have people who receive a decent salary, because they also contribute more to the pension fund. With these systems and these warnings, which I normally give practically every budget, these budgets would actually be significantly higher. And if you invest an additional billion in investments, it is a multiplier again in economic growth, in jobs or in repayment of loans and the like that Slovenia has. We can then become an independent country that can negotiate with anyone about how and under what conditions it will work with; either in the region, Europe or the world. In short, a lot of reserves are still in Slovenia and it would be good to make a substantial effort to make use of them at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Runk, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greeting to you all, lovely greeting to the Minister! I've got quite a bit of time, so I'm gonna take it slow. Someone mentioned earlier that numbers aren't just numbers. Numbers are never just numbers if you can read them. I always say, I also explained this to them at the OECD in Paris, but at first I was a bit sidetracked, the budget is basically a story – whether you can read it or not. It's also a municipal budget. Those who were mayors, municipal opposition councilors or whatever, someone who can read the municipal budget well in the middle of the great congregation will open the budget and see which little cousin will receive the money. That's our problem. Everyone likes the pensioners very much now, because we're just ahead of the election. You're blowing on their souls because 37% of the elective body is retired and because they're probably going to elect the next composition of the National Assembly. Desus was very bad for me because I said they were an anomaly of the political system. They were very bad back then. Let the colleague stop, I'm still thinking it myself. Because then, for example, we could have a client of Slovenian Railways and Franca Trčka, a client of public administration, but – I did not complete the sentence – the pathology of Slovenian politics you were some others. The last time I want to say SD, he often denies SDS. In the meantime, LDS, which has transformed a little bit into what it's transformed into. It's the rabbit's business here that retirees have pensions the way they do. This is this feud that I call it, which is called - from our quotas. This has even been taught by politicians who are not overly talented for politics in the Modern Centre Party to say so. Or when a gentleman says, unfortunately again, from Desus, the Frech that it was time for him to come to heaven. And that's us, as you might say, in an ostrich, y'all, three dots. [[…]] And we are where we are. And that's not funny, and that's also very well seen in the budget. In this debate so far, I must commend him, the only one who spoke about the budget and looked at the revenue side of the budget. But he is ultimately the vice-president of one important party, who should bring Han to another's ears; but now Matjaž will not raise procedurally. And everyone's done something, and everyone's also something I don't say. [[…]] When I asked Mira Cerar here yesterday about housing policy, my parents told me why I wouldn't wind him up any more. I didn't put it on because deep down I'm still a gentleman, and the kids were sitting on the balcony. He said it was complicated. And our problem is that we don't know how to deal with these complex things. I went to a very serious study on the first budget in 2014, and I really read the whole thing. For every item, I went to look at indicators, indicators, whatever you want. Mrs Godec said earlier, no indicators, no analyses. It was a personal insult to me as a professor who had been involved in social development for several years. But that's how we did these budgets. I sometimes say jokingly, but I mortally think that probably the ancient Egyptians and the Sumerians were doing more serious budgeting. But that's so out of the question, because you know, the budget is indexation, more or less. Little between fighting which minister will draw more; 25 years of wrong have brought us to a much greater degree that we have to frustrate the pension fund and pay interest. But when people start beating me up, I always say to them: "Wait, let's not choose ourselves. We had Pahor's government, which should have done more, and then Pahor jumped for what was already the German-French train; and now we will have him as President for 10 years. Good morning! And when Janša waited a long time for him to come into power, a lot of people told me, "Here, we thought, but now a little bit normal, we weren't from the right quota, LDS didn't let us into the business; oh, fuck, it was even worse. It's kind of the end of the quote now. And these are some facts. And one of you here was talking about dissatisfaction, satisfaction, industriousness, generosity of the budget. The budget debate should be based on what we would like. Good, because sometimes we're beating the government out of opposition because they've just messed with it. Yeah, let's be happy. Happiness is basically the concept of late scholastics. My friend was a doctor. When it comes to security, Mr Grims, who is not now, will talk a lot about security and will be shown hellish, but if we read the Slovenian Constitution, it is very clear what security we must provide. The same way we need to coordinate pensions. There's no need to push something around here, Desus or anyone else, because we have it regulated by law, how pensions have to be coordinated. What are we going to do with this doctorate now?Oh, my God! There was a crisis between us, and in Maribor we would say we were in trouble, and this was not coordinated. But we'll get better pensions with different economic bases. I always say that all activities of the economy that cannot generate EUR 800 net salary to the last person should be shut down, in the medium term, because this is the production of the poor. What we have to do as a compulsory public service, but what we have to do through the budget, through transfer, is enable people to have decent salaries. It's true, we've completely forgotten about science. Basic science would just be overturned. If we were to develop the basic science well, we wouldn't have to have that stunt about arbitration because we have enough good mathematicians to have our own cryptography. And we have a government that ministers and ministers don't have cryptographic phones or they didn't have them at some point. Where'd it go? I've been thinking a lot lately – well, Franjo, you're not the smartest person in the world, away from who your role model is in Slovenian politics. Who's your role model in Slovenian politics? Now Vinko Gorenak will be disappointed because I won't mention him, even though he writes a good blog. France Butcher, then it stops. For me you are not Kučan and Drnovšek as an example because they both knew about the mother of all Slovenian affairs, but kept silent about it. Kučan remained silent, and Drnovšek decided in 1994 that he would not go basketball and the prince of the darkness to change because it would be too much of a political upheaval. Why France Butcher? Because he was state-owned and because he was against this kind of feudalization that you had for 25 years. It's usually attributed to Oman. It doesn't matter what he's like; it's important that he's ours. Our problem is that we don't have people who can think beyond the 100 million quota, but that there's a political workforce of people who can't make a million and a half in ten years, which is hard; about 2 million. And that's kind of a problem. And I think we should get out of Nate, we're the most dangerous to ourselves. But the only thing that can save us is a much more expensive boundary and measure of intelligence and people who are capable of thinking a complexity; also beyond this – Janša, anti Janša, which we have been looking at for 20 years. This, too, fostered this kind of indiscretion. We don't think in this house anymore, it's just some ping-ponging thing. We say, drawing on cohesion, and we only see percentages of how much it's drawn, how much it's not drawn on cohesion. Why, though, do we draw on it — as you might say — the liberals — the multiplier in which the congregations will then fight a little more and so on at which water line. And I'll say, for a whole series of things. Madam Minister, let's say there was a difference between contributions and taxes. Our tax policy is a stone age. In a society and a country that thinks of itself, tax policy is actually an instrument for guiding some development. But if we don't know each other or don't want to chew on what development is, because it's easier to steal, in our own words, we don't have the right tax policy. We have a tax policy that is excessively excise, which strikes the poor even more on the head. According to the latest data, 10% of the wealthiest in us have 47% ownership, and the lower fifth of the poorest have only 0.5%. These are some of the facts that are hidden because we only look at average wages or very low pensions. And Madam Minister or Secretary of State – the Minister also has the right to leave this place a little bit – to make a difference, contributions and taxes. I basically see most of these contributions that the minister mentioned, like, I'll just say, intergenerational tax. I am now paying for someone who is now sick, who has allowed me to have the standard we have with his work. Now I'm paying for someone if I have a ticket to get him a pension. Someone else is going to be paying contributions so I can have it. So it seems to me that her difference here doesn't drink anything essential to water. And the problem with our budgets is they're not optimal, because we don't think too much, let alone developmental. And this should be the task of the budget. And that I wouldn't beat Desus too hard, someone said he was aware of the poverty of the pensioners. There's a big difference between awareness and action. We're not here to replace Big Brother shows, though we often look like that. We should decide here, including on the budget, adopt better legislation, adopt some strategies that are feasible; not some half-story. And I'm going to sit down and I'm going to write you five good strategies in three days, after there, but what do we have out of this, if this doesn't work out somehow? And now watch until 2012, 2013; it seems to me that we have to watch at least since 1987. I was still relatively young – perhaps someone would hardly imagine it, not so ugly, some said that even beautiful – 20 years ago when I wrote about the field of computer science that we are in some sort of lar; and that is the problem. We just had that independence because you then stopped who you were – this is Desus's butter, even though these old ones were in line, as they say – the SDK, that it was easier to steal, according to homework. Peterlet was trained to be denationalized, which even Germany cannot afford, even though it is much richer. The Constitutional Judge Šinkovec spoke about this in 1996, 1997. A good part of the story at the time was that we did not go into shock therapy of various sachs and so on; and since 1997, 1998 we no longer really mean ourselves. Every government has tried to do something, every government has disappointed us, and we may have had too many expectations. This government, in particular a new political obstacle, which has been heard in the name of Mira Cerar, which I often call a bag of surprises, has made many promises. But here we have to agree with the opposition, but it has done little. Even because we fall into politics as, or you know what you have, that witch who drags rabbits out. [[…]] If we want to compare ourselves with Austria, Germany or anyone else, we need to train people, both for politics and for people who know how to think. And we have most of the resources - what?Oh, my God! We have the majority of the resources, the sector of the state, the state, since that 'excess', that the average age of the employees there is up to 48 years old and that the decision makers are 55 years old and over. The next government will already have a major generation gap problem in the second half of the term, because you will no longer have a young mind that thinks within decision-making processes. And that's what I want to see in the budgets, but they're not. Janko is a principle of two very important topics – DUTB, SDH. The management of SDH is carried out in some way by a non-excessively large fire company, I apologize. Look at the tides of Krka. What do you do? Orders a study in Hungary and wants to disintegrate Krka. Read the interview in the Saturday annex with the director of Krka. I think every Member should read it three times, not once, because he sends us not to say where. I was a high school student in New Town; Krka has a 50-year-old staff system. This country has not established it in a good quarter of the century. And that's actually a real problem. What's a bad bank? Bad bank is a sale. After all, Slovenia is so small that even in Levica we know what it was like. Who was threatened: if you're wrong, you'll get the book. It came from Ljubljana, as it was said, to Maribor, what a discount rate; and this was. Then he's from bad to worse than Janko said. And then on the one hand, talk about how nice and cool I'm reading my Evening, which I read first: Sotra's Social Trade is going bankrupt. [[…]] And I personally worked with someone else, and the congregation was looking for space. The problem is 20,000 euros and 5,000 people who had this card in Maribor. These are people who really hit hard poverty. On the other hand, yesterday's Green Grove, in Dnevnik, they won't say that I don't advertise Ljubljana's newspapers. Says Cerar that we have a housing policy. Renting apartments, renting 436-500 euros for two rooms, 6 monthly rents you have to pay in advance, you charge more.Who can afford that?Oh, my God! And the upper income line will be the net income of 3 000 811. It's probably between us, Members and Members of Parliament, who doesn't have a net salary with a partner or a partner. I'll just say very non-academic – let's stop fucking around! And that's it. And then when you look at the costs. We could have a much cheaper life if we had a regulated housing policy that we don't have; if we had a regulated public passenger traffic that we don't have; if we had a whole range of other cooperative issues that society needs to handle; and think. I always say to myself that the happiest person in the world would be if I never had to own a property and a means of transport, more than a bicycle. And you have societies not so far away from us, where you're allowed to do so, from me a good 15 kilometers from the airline. Austria also collects 7% more public revenues than we do; they are not as much working as we are, nor so much – let me not be insulted by citizens and citizens of Austria – smarter than we are; they only realize that they cannot let cows die, that at some point you can milk only a certain amount of milk. We who are from farmers at home know that not everyone has been left with milk. It was one of the best true anecdotes of previous elections when that farmer, Mr Pahor, did not leave in the barn because he knew that this would have a negative impact on cows. And then you do a milk analysis and this milk will somehow reach a lower price. The President of the State should also be aware of this, and there is nothing else. I could bring down here a whole series of stories, a whole series of sectoral policies that we're missing, but you, after all, have to mention this story now with the OECD, even if I ideologically don't belong there, why it's basically stuck. [[…]] They told me there; because in the end it turned out that this development strategy of Slovenia would essentially be played by four ministries. Hops, you have your odds here, and then probably someone with it is actually unhappy. We would probably need fewer ministries if we were already talking about the budget. This is one of the few things I like – the Swiss model. I don't like the money laundering, but the Swiss have seven, eight ministries across the board, which, of course, means there will be fewer cupcakes to give to some important political actors. As a result of this situation that you have brewed and if you hadn't cooked it, it would probably never have been leftovers in politics, or anyone else after the next term, we must finally start to work on creating conditions for these policies. And that's why we're proposing amendments. It wasn't just by chance that I asked Mr Cerar about housing policy yesterday. Actually, I don't have it. And this is one amendment where we're looking for funds within the budget. Don't let the Essematians talk about the amendments again this year, so we can't do it because of the fiscaler. We move the money, we don't raise the budget. Please don't insult me intellectually anymore. I hope someone at SMC is listening, at least on the radio. And that's why we found the money, in fact, 6 million for the final start of the development of housing policy. A year ago also some of my very good ex-students, who had a very serious engagement, still have a project of housing cooperatives. They attracted half of Europe to Ljubljana – I am sorry that they are not in Maribor – to the Faculty of Architecture and talked about it seriously. This is the task of responsible policy. We have no serious policy for under 40 years. We have to deal with them. If we deal with them, the pensioners will also have better pensions. Maybe then Dusus will be gone, or he will merge with Levica or the SDS, because it doesn't matter, let us stop, but these are serious things that we have to deal with. If you have already imported this country by making it difficult for young people to get jobs if they get salaries that are not exactly something, if I compare them with this "Afstria" as we like to say above; then we need to create conditions for them not to be taken by concretemafia for 20 years and by banks with Swiss or similar stories. It's some kind of responsible policy for me. Second story. Health care. Everyone likes to talk about health. In the 2019 budget, I will just talk with this, if there is a related debate, we have found a good €15.5 million for investment investments in health. Where did we get them? We took them to the Presidency of the European Union. We had some kind of Presidency of the European Union, and something happened there on the Hill. To preside over the European Union, if this does not fall apart in a more modest way, there is no need to build any new concrete now. I'm coming from Maribor. We have a UKC on paper. If you have a university where they are doing about, a good medical study – in Graz they say that the Maribor medicine study is more designed than the Maribor medicine, and I do not mean to mention it – you also need a functioning university clinic. Here is a story similar to that of the Slovenian Army, we said that we would have a professional army, and no one was involved in personneling, and we could mention Krko to you again. And there sat a visible politician from SDS, that little bit more the right hand of the façade who boasted that UKC Maribor had no minus. But now they're telling Mr. Flis, it seems that he's over-suspecting the development of the show. [[…]] There could be a minister among us who would say how this gentleman got to him; but he was groaning in the media – Give me 20 of these. Then, off the record he told him – Three give me, because I don't need them anymore. That he could brag about how he was the super director, although, of course, as director, he had no impact on what policy had set here and executive and at insurance level. And for this reason, let's say I propose on behalf of the Left this amendment that the UKC in Maribor finally gets some basic money to start developing a university clinic; because also UKC Ljubljana eventually needs some competition and because we need a more fair distribution of this and because we are second-, third-class citizens on our side of Trojan. We pay the same contribution rates to the health allowance as you who live on this site. I love Ljubljana and Ljubljana very much, but I don't like this byte very much, because we don't do quality enough to make no mistake. That's actually the problem. I'm the only one from the Maribor opposition with a perimeter. And we also had Drava power plants that are running out. If you didn't vote for Mirato three times from the coalition, hops, you'd start thinking. But the mandate has passed. But in this amendment we do not only support UKC Maribor, but we need two UKCs according to the geographical breakdown of Slovenia; we also need serious reflection on the reform of the health network. Not every hospital can do everything. But here's where the Members and Members of Parliament will begin to gossip. I've said a long time ago that from Maribor I enjoy going to Ptuj, Ormož or Mursko Sobota if they specialize in something. There are also savings in the budget if I touch health care, but here must also be our responsibility. You have some positive localism; however, you have localism, which is also developmentally negative that you will strain something. Some part that now belongs to the “forest of the forest domestic”, the Židanov, will move from Ljubljana to Kočevje. And I said that you'd be patted over the head, that it was cheaper there; but they said it wasn't cheaper – in Smelt we have a square of 7 euros, we're going to have a 9. Let the press go see who deserves it now. These are also stories that we just have to think about when we talk about budgets and look at these things. Yesterday, I received an answer from the government because I was sneezing because the under-line portal was spinning – not to remain in debt to the SD – some kind of program. I've been working on a new Slovenia there, and Peterle SDK, Joshka, you won't think. One company programmed a programme worth €6,000 200, and now the Ministry of the Ministry of Copachev pays €600,000 annually for maintenance. You guys who are a little crazy about cars, unlike me, imagine if servicing cars cost you so much, would you have it?Oh, my God! Plus at the same time, over 2-3 million. You look at the computer, publicly available, 93% of all the business this company has is with this department. And what is the government's response? We've been doing this for almost an entire term. We've left this to the judiciary, blah, blah, blah. And such stories, the lions, the right ones, because the lions were not, in fact, perhaps social-democratic; the right ones that you were in power when I went to see are so many. And Janko recently, probably because he's a little upset about what happened to him in his client, he's been publishing this. It seems to me that if we sit together until the end of our term, we find those missing millions for the second track. We'll find them! And these are the stories that we need to start talking about with a serious politician. And it is also the responsibility of citizens and citizens to either let themselves go to politics, but not just to ask them how you survive it; or at least they are responsible enough to go to elections and vote those who are capable of doing it. Because we must also be aware of the so - called Peter principle. And it is also the responsibility of all serious political parties, groups, to propose some people who did not come to the trough to come a little bit, to steal a little bit; or as some gentleman was told that he did not eat shrimp in life, but now he can eat shrimp every day. That some people who also have a calmed hormonal situation go into serious politics and return some professional deontology; what Miro Cerar would call ethics and morality. However, it is difficult to talk about ethics and morality by a party that replaces the three ministers of development with the most important source of education and science. You know why we switched them. The first and third were ready ones. And, of course, supervisors, surveillance. And consider the necessary tax reform, but not the horror we like to do again, but why and how. Already with this real estate tax, whatever you call it, no one wants to take it. Of course, we need to be a little aware of how our people have come to these bytes, how difficult they are to maintain them and so on; on the other hand, we need to push tax policy into regulation of the housing market. It's not so hard again that we couldn't do it if we wanted to, but then the money will come out of someone. Probably not from the bottom 20%, but from the top 10% to which we will tax so many and so many empty properties or will have to show so many leases. And when I look at this suspicion of sumarum, the person is stabbed in the eye, and with Patrick's experience, if you want, the T.E.S. and more – that we promised Nat a billion in eight years, over 150 million a year; in short, three quarters of those pennies, which we miss for the second track, per year. For what? For some armored vehicles, which in five years, someone will remember that we need to fix them a little bit, we'll sell Photono in the meantime. Today in the paper read how Foton works today. And in 10 years, it'll be NATO-standard that these are some old buckets. In the meantime, we will have PESCO to have a little more European so-called defence industry if we translate this euphemism, the war industry of some of Europe's largest countries, and we get at least another 10 million out of the budget. I'll conclude here that my parents will have something else to say. We're the most dangerous to ourselves. We don't need Nate, we probably need one good psychiatrist, and we probably need to end up with a story about guilt. But you know, this obsession with guilt. Everyone who was in power, you're something, I'm gonna say in human language, you fucked up. You've done something good, but you're often stealing together and now you're stealing. That is why we would also need more money from the budget for the third branch of power to finally become independent, to finally start going seriously; that the mistress of any elderly judge would not be proposed there and there through the Council of Justice; but that someone would really be able, for which we would also give the money, so that we could recruit him. Plus basic science, plus youth. You're making a theater out of these 8,000 young people. More young people should go abroad, only we should give them opportunities from the budget. My second political model is Olof Palme. The older one might remember him a little. They killed him. He's like a student, like me, traveling a lot on a stick, I'm a little less. His order was when he was in power, any student from the country he was from, go Google a little, I won't tell you everything, he comes to the embassy, they have to help him. I always say that especially young people without Mojca Mavec must go abroad. I don't give a shit about recruiting. Let's give people, let's give the young generation, let's give everyone enough money to go abroad for six months, and we'll have a lot better budgets and a lot better policies in ten years. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! After such a gruesome debate, it is almost difficult for me to concentrate. I must say that my colleague, Duck, has left the budget several times, but that's not why. Nevertheless, I would like to say the following. Of course, we are recording the economic growth that we can only wish for. This is estimated to be almost 4.4% or more. This positive trend is also reflected in the budget, which is certainly encouraging. However, I would like to point out with certainty that the individuals of this economic growth will still not feel it in this budget, because the budget is still too ambitious from this point of view. I believe that people with minimum income are then unemployed, pensioners who went after the ZPIZ-2 to retire, then also disabled people, as well as young people who simply do not find employment and do not have a solved housing problem. These people are on the verge of despair. Above all, I mean those who receive minimum incomes and pensioners who simply cannot spend a month with these incomes they receive. Their debts accumulate and simply drop them into an unenviable position. Then there will be jobs that we do not want, that should be substantially smaller and should not even come to them. This is also due to the outstanding obligations of renting an apartment or to the fact that it is not able to pay electricity. In such a case, I think it is necessary for institutions such as social work centres and other institutions to step together to avoid such activities. This budget, which we have on the table today, has advantages and weaknesses. Since we provide an additional 136 million in the budget to cover health losses, we could say that this is one of the advantages of the budget. But on the other hand, we immediately wonder if that's true. First, you ask yourself why these losses have occurred. Are these losses really due to low prices? Are these losses due to the elimination of imbalances, the non-payment of health services? If that's true, I wonder where we've been waiting so long. However, if losses were caused by the management’s mismanagement of public funds, then this is a problem; and this is a major problem that should not be passed on to taxpayers in any way. This responsibility should be sought in the leadership itself. In particular, I am thinking of overpayment of venous braces and other medical materials, as we all know that the ventricles have been overpaid; however, the management has simply failed or has not been able to make any additional effort to lower the prices of these materials. Losses have accumulated from year to year and have reached such a level that the operation of hospitals is compromised and thus the care of patients. Therefore, at this point, I think it is right to provide additional money in the budget to ensure these losses, but this must be a lesson for us. These reasons need to be looked at, the recovery committees need to play their part, and leadership must not close their eyes. It also happened this year that some hospitals were unable to pay their employees. This cannot simply happen, and if we did not have the resources in the budget, there could be major problems. I certainly believe that investment in health care is largely understated. I think we're putting these funds into the budget to put out the fires. On the other hand, health losses will remain, and I hope that the health authorities will solve this debt or reduce the cost of operation. On the one hand, we are talking about debts in health homes, and on the other hand, we will be created or already owed debt in social security institutions, as social protection institutions operate on the basis of legal provisions. We have adopted a legal provision on the elimination of imbalances and simply social security institutions no longer have sufficient resources, so they have started to suffer losses because prices between the year and back cannot change. In this place appeals to the government to actually start thinking in this direction. It is also positive to me in this budget that resources are provided for specialisation and traineeships. This will relieve the health treasury, and I hope that this savings, which will be used in the health treasury, will reduce waiting periods. It is also positive in the budget that unemployment compensation is being reduced, which therefore means that the unemployment rate is falling; and that there is also no more massive dismissal of workers, which is certainly good. But in doing so, we must not close our eyes, and the fields of work and social affairs must also be a priority for these governments. The release of austerity measures is good in the long run, and I must also commend that 45 000 families will receive a child allowance. However, I would certainly like the government to consider also the need to encourage the birth of children, because we all know that demographics are getting worse; and we should simply think in the direction of reintroducing the supplement for all parents at the time of the birth of the child. All pensioners are provided for the reconciliation of pensions. The shares will also be extremely coordinated in April by 1.1%, and pensioners will also receive an annual allowance for recreation. The infrastructure area, which is increasing by 28%, is also commendable, but I must stress that I have a number of questions. What were the criteria for the inclusion of individual projects in the budget? First of all, I wonder how the Western Railway project in Slovenska Bistrica will continue, as €250,000 is planned in the 2018 budget. I wonder whether this amount of resources will be sufficient to carry out the project, as it should be pointed out that it is a very special investment that will relieve the Partizan road and also the centre of the old city core. Investment is also vital for the inhabitants of Slovenske Bistrica as well as for all others, as well as vital importance for the large company Impol. I also highlight the case of the reconstruction of the Ruth-Lovrenc-Pesek road. In the 2018 budget, it does not follow the fully signed agreement of August of this year. Why am I saying that? The agreement states that the total investment is worth around 5 million. The agreement somehow prolongs the investment to 2-3 years; the State's commitment is 3 million. The 2018 budget provides only EUR 38 000 and 500 000 in 2019. If this amount is summed up, this is indeed significantly less than that provided for in the signed agreement. I personally find it unacceptable to sign an agreement and then the funds are not provided in the budget. However, I must be honest that, at the time of the signing of the agreement, I was clearly told that budgetary obligations are also being assumed through the signed agreement, and I am therefore asked at this point the question of who to trust now, when and how the investment will proceed. There's still a lot to say, but I just don't have time anymore. Nevertheless, I would like to say that it is also commendable that the averages for the municipalities are increasing, but that average is far from legally prescribed, a certain amount of over €600. I think that the country should follow in order to ensure that more funds are provided for the averages, since the municipalities are the ones that ensure the quality of their citizens' stay in the city. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mrs. Andrej Potočnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u48	President, thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, hello! We have heard quite a few words today about the budget itself, and allow me to restore the general picture that is happening in the Slovenian space, especially the economic part – especially for the viewers who are watching us today. On 9 November, the European Commission published a autumn economic forecast, stating that the Slovenian economy grew at a high rate in the first half of the year; the real gross domestic product increased by 4.8% and thus exceeded the pre-crisis level; domestic demand continued to increase; investments also increased by 10%; private consumption increased by 3.4%, mainly due to higher personal income, I repeat, due to higher personal income. Already in the record of the Commission, we understand what an ordinary, average citizen has – he has higher personal income, which means he can spend more. We also have greater confidence in consumers. Export growth remained strong and exceeded import growth, which further contributed to the surplus of the current account. In the Republic of Slovenia we also have our own institution, which deals with the forecast, this is Umar, who estimates 4.4% economic growth. What is behind this information 4.4%? Umar estimates that exports will increase by 8,8 %. Investment will also contribute to growth after a long period of time. An increase of 9 % is expected on the investment side. It is also encouraging to see that the private sector invests a lot again. If we want the private sector to invest, that means it has to have revenue. And, of course, I'm glad to know that money is not just kept in a bank account. We all know that Slovenians are among those who keep a lot of money in banks. Umar estimates that, for the most part, the deleveraging process has also been completed. What does that mean? It means that companies will also use part of their profits for investments, which is once again an extremely encouraging data. Banks have renewed lending, which means that the cash flow between banks and businesses has reactivated. This is again encouraging for investments and the further growth of Slovenian exports. As already mentioned, private consumption is one of the most important exhilarating data. We also record good results in the labour market. We are always told that all we talk about is lower unemployment. Let me tell you about employment, and this number is getting higher. According to Umar's assessment, employment will increase by 2.7% this year; it increased by 1.9% last year. Furthermore, unemployment has been reduced several times, which means that wages have also been increased. This means that people have more income to spend. Here you can see in concrete terms how citizens can feel economic growth. So much possible for the introduction to the general picture. We were told in the debates on Friday and Saturday on the Committee and even today in the positions of the parliamentary groups that our government has more than 1.4 billion in availability compared to 2014. Yeah, that's right. What does this government use this money for? This government is spending 92 million more on defence, 68 million more on science, 62 million more on internal affairs and security. There is also much talk about the coordination of pensions or pensions themselves. It holds the data, the State budget commitment to PPIZ is in line with legislation in 2018 by 330 million lower than it was in 2014. However, for pensioners it is of course the most important information, regardless of where the money is provided from, whether it is the State budget, whether it is the KAD, or the PPIZ, that the most important thing is that in 2018 the PPIZ will have a cash flow of 433 million more than in 2014. This seems extremely important to me because we know that only one part of the story has always been presented to us. Retirement coordination. Coordination took place twice in 2016. For the first time in January 2016, by 0,7 % and then again in October, extraordinary coordination by 0,4 %. This means that in 2016 we spent 36.8 million more on pensions. In 2017, pensions were harmonised by 1.15% already in January. For the annual allowance, 21.6 million was allocated more than in 2016. In 2016, an annual pension allowance of more than €750 was not paid; while all pensioners above €750 received €90 of the annual allowance in 2017, this year is the year. For 2018, regular and extraordinary harmonisation of pensions of 1.1% is agreed, for which we will need an additional 50 million. So much is possible with regard to specific numbers concerning pensions and the coordination of pensions. It was also clear that the government does not aim enough for research and development. According to the statistics provided by Eurostat, Slovenia invested in research and development activities totalling 2.21% of GDP. This is above the average of the European Union. It points out, however, that the contribution of the private sector is almost 70% of the total investment. This puts us at the top; this is mainly due to tax incentives for investing in research and development. What else is going on in this area, what else is going to happen? In preparation is legislation for higher education research, we have a strategy for internationalising scientific cooperation and other calls from cohesion funds such as research and development projects – 45 million, research infrastructure – 35 million, teams – up to 30 million and applications projects – 2.5 million. These are also nominal amounts that support the information that the government of Dr. Mir Cerar is also investing in research and development and is aware of the importance of this area. Comrade Joseph — Hello, Joseph! — he mentioned on the Committee that he was particularly concerned about the implementation of the law on development support to the Pomurska region, which we extended this year. Of course, I went immediately to the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology and I received a response that would be a target value, that is 33.2 million grants achieved by the end of 2019. And maybe there's information about how much has been spent so far and what the plans are by the end of 2019. In 2010, EUR 3.8 million was allocated; 2011 – 3.6; 2012 – 4.4; 2013 – 2.9; 2014 – 4.2; 2015 – 3.8 and 2016 – 2.6. In 2017, expenditure of 4.1 million is planned, in 2018 – 2.1 million; of this, 1.7 million goes from integrated sources; and 0.4 million from European Union resources; perhaps this information is not more known. In 2019, consumption of 1.7 million, 1.3 million from integrated resources and 0.4 million from European Union resources, is planned. When we get that together, we get a total of 33.2 million grants. However, a total of EUR 668 000 for micro-credits, for larger and larger investment loans to companies, is also mentioned; in the back we have this divided into five instruments, and we would not go into too much detail right now. I believe, given the goodwill we have shown so far, that Minister Restoration has also shown that the absorption capacity of Pomur will also be to provide us with all this success; that we will also have appropriate and appropriate projects reported and that this will be successfully completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mrs Maria Antonija Kovacič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! In my contribution, I will only touch two points and I sincerely wish that Slovenian pensioners would listen to me. Among the pensioners, it ended when they heard that in item 21 someone was taking something away from them. In 2018, due to the favourable situation in the labour market, there will be more employees, resulting in a higher inflow of contributions to social and pension protection, more resources for PPIZ, less contribution from the pension budget under the formula. If more funds are raised under the law for pensions under heading 21, these are the appropriations of the budget. It is harmful to deceive pensioners, especially those who are still below the risk of poverty to take something away from them. The formula for the calculation of the pension determines how much the State has to contribute to the pension fund of the Pension and Disability Insurance Office by law. How did we coordinate our pensions? Regularly and exceptionally, I won't mention it because the predecessor has spoken about it in front of me and many others. I am pleased, however, that, according to the ZPIZ-2, a minimum pension of EUR 500 has been provided and is valid from 1. Ten ahead. However, I am sad that some with the untruths must provide for future voters right among pensioners. Let me touch other points, namely, the impact of the annual pension allowance. The proposal offered by the Group of Non-Aligned Members offers two classes. Let me say that the allocation of these funds is as difficult as the allocation proposed by the government and that it is necessary to say that the proposal of the two classes is taken away from the ten thousand poorest pensioners by this proposal EUR 140 and given to those who have higher pensions. However, in the 5th grade distribution, I think and I believe that this distribution is more fair; from 410 in the 1st grade, in the 2nd grade 270, in the 3rd grade 210, the 4th class 160 euro and in the 5th class 100 euro annual supplement. The one with 850 euros will certainly know what to do with 100 euros. I think that this matter should be seen in its entirety; not just through partial measures that try to achieve only apparent concern for pensioners. Equally many classes make a greater impact for all pensioners who have lower pensions; and these are significantly more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Those who speak of populism must first set up the foreview mirror. And now I'm going to give a concrete example. Mr Karl Erjavec said Sunday after the elections that it was a shame that we had a second round, because we could have spent three million on pensioners. Too bad you didn't tell him that pensioners don't need it. In the same swing, when you talk about giving three million to a pensioner, you take 80 million from those same pensioners. Well, now tell me what populism is! You know how many elections it is, how many other rounds of elections it is, it's populism; and that's why Slovenian politics is in as bad a light as it is today. I'd give you $3 million if there wasn't another round, but we'll take 80 just in case. That's a fact. And that's populism, so that's it, ladies and gentlemen. Second fact. Mr Horvat stated on Saturday on the committee that the pensions fell by 16, I think 16 and a half percent from 2006 to 2016. Yes, governments were changing, government presidents were changing, finance ministers were changing, but one stop and one constant is always present. Can you believe this is Desus? For ten years, Desus is present in this story! That's a fact. And all I would like to say is that, if we are already going to the Slovenian public, the Slovenian pensioners are still subject to austerity measures worth €21 million at this time. Is it worth saving 21 million in pensioners at a billion dollars in income? I don't know. You've made up your mind! Of course you have the right, just don't throw sand in the eyes of Slovenian pensioners. Mr. Jurša spoke earlier about some money being shoveled into banks. Why don't you tell me why you don't take away the 1.5 billion that's said to be too much in banks, and give it to the pensioners. You know why? Because you know that's not true. But it is populism every day to shake down lies and nonsense and deceive the Slovenian public; back off – I use his words – this billion and a half and distribute it to the pensioners. You have my vote for that. But, of course, it takes courage to do these things. Yes, when there is no economic growth, when there is no money, it is logical that pensions could not be coordinated. Makes sense. But today you have a billion and a half more, respected colleagues and colleagues, in one year, in just one year, you have a billion and a half more, and you still say, with pensioners you have to save. That is a fact, and all pensioners will be happy to receive a few percent of these fights. It's populism. The numbers I presented, they're pretty sure they're holding. And it is true that my government, along with you and Desus, has given the pensioners 330 million more. But you can't turn it around, however you turn it around, it's a fact. This budget, in addition to this error, lacks one great priority, these are young people, and there is also a little more for the environment. There's nothing said about green if I paraphrase a little bit. The Triglav National Park, the National Assembly takes a decision – the government nothing. Why? I don't know. My colleague Jurš here shouted that the National Assembly had no impact on the budget, but he would approve a budget that would not comply with the legal requirements of the National Assembly. Is that right? I don't know. Is that old practice? Even if it is, the new government party said it would change it, but none of it, everything goes back to normal, as my first-class colleague says. What about writing water into the constitution as the right of everyone, drinking water? Nothing! Nothing happens. You haven't even prepared the laws you need to be prepared. Not even that. Not even the money. All of this will wait for the new government. Yeah, and the last election even gave us a mirror. Yeah, people don't trust politics, but because one of you populism promises something, and then you do everything else in the government. And these are numbers, we can exercise, we're all responsible together. Together, we are all responsible for the real decline in pensions, perhaps even after years, how much, what and how much economic growth, how much money the government had at its disposal. As much as Mira Cerar's government has, not for 10 years. But you're fighting and defending and talking about how much you've done for these pensioners because you gave them two cupcakes of ice cream – we've heard before. Mr. Jursha said it was true. You can also eat ice cream in a cup, not necessarily you need a cornet, but for two scoops of ice cream to sell to pensioners as a supporter of pensioners, it's sad. It's sad. And with a billion and a half, respected colleagues and colleagues, we should find these fights 20 million and end the savings because it is the same. You can look for reasons, you can turn things around, but numbers are facts and numbers speak for themselves. More than 60 other circles could be given to pensioners by Mr Erjavec, and you will give him the item where Pensions says take it away. It's too bad you're only going to populism, but we could show you what's right. There is still a possibility, there is still a possibility in the Budget Implementation Act, even if my amendment is not prepared as you think it is right, we should correct it and write what is right. You can do more than €410 if you think it's money. I was just being realistic, and I did it honestly, which I really think is the time. Pensioners must not feel savings by 2020 if we have economic growth – and we have it – proven – if the state budget has a billion and a half more than in 2014. If it's true that you're saying there's more money in our banks, drop it off and give it to the pensioners. Not only with populism, but let's act to show that we're up to it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Is there still a desire to discuss it? Please sign up. Mag. Marko Pogačnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u54	Mr President, thank you for the floor. In opening, I will not support the government budget amended by the rebalancing for 2018. The reasons why I won't support him are more. In particular, I would like to say that the proposed budget rebalancing is not the success story that both the President of the Government and the Minister of Finance are trying to present, and not least as the coalition itself, the Modern Centre Party, Desus and the Social Democrats. The fact is, this government lives in a very different environment than the previous governments. In fact, revenues are about 1 billion higher, and we know that some economic growth is crucial, but not least all of us find that not more than one billion euros in the state budget and economic growth are felt by those who should; these are citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. And you don't feel that in your wallets. Dear colleague Prikl, I don't think so. Also, your pensioners, who are so supportive of them, have already told you that and there is no such thing. The reconciliation of pensions for two cupcakes of ice cream, I think it's sad for more than one billion higher incomes. I am sure that a number of pensioners would also send you, personally or to members of your parliamentary group, how their pensions have increased over the last five years. This government is somehow boasting that the 2018 budget was positive, which means it will have a surplus. True, you are planning a surplus of 51 million, but the fact is that this surplus will be due to a single event, i.e. the influx of European funds of more than 200 million euros. Until now, the budget has been surplused only once in the history of Slovenia, in 2008 and this period when the government of Janez Janša ruled. See, even if you wrote that there will be a surplus for 2018, we know that this is going to be a one-time event, but there is probably no guarantee. Because a lot of things can change, of course. The fact is that the Fiscal Council did not give that positive assessment to this draft amending the 2018 budget either. Following a review of macroeconomic forecasts and forecasts of fiscal developments, the Fiscal Council assessed that the budget documents submitted are only partially in line with the fiscal rules in force during a period in which Slovenia has not yet reached its medium-term fiscal objective. I would say, too, that this key supervisory body of the budget, not only the opposition parliamentary group, we find that this budget does not clean up everything or that it is not a success story that the coalition itself is trying to present in some way. It must be said that what is due to the growth of income is primarily an economy. The economy is the one that fills the budget. Rather than reward the economy for its successful work, this government and this coalition, in fact, in a way with higher taxes, also penalises it with additional burdens. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that, given the increased revenue and high economic growth, this government and this coalition, in particular the Ministry of Finance, could go a little further towards reducing the taxes themselves. But these incomes, which creates the economy, I have the feeling that this government prefers to spend them on itself, especially for the benefits they have. Unfortunately, we can't. The fact is that public sector wages are increasing. Personally, I'm not against higher wages. But I am absolutely against higher salaries in the public sector at the expense of the economy. In fact, it is a characteristic of this government to rule with a policy of increasing taxes and additional debt. We can also come to the conclusion that the country's debt will increase compared to 2014 and will increase by the end of 2017. Here we are skeptical whether these debts are justified or not. We are convinced that the debt policy and the policy of additional burdens and additional taxes are not the ones that would ensure development in Slovenia. It is still important to say that, as far as pensions are concerned, we have discussed a lot today, and there must be an important segment also in the budget area, a high item, including a percentage in the expenditure structure, which is planned for 2018 for a little over €1.2 billion and 1.3 billion. In doing so, it should be recalled that the expenditure for the pension fund in 2014 was, say, EUR 1.65 billion, which represents, almost 400 million more. The fact is, on the one hand, due to economic growth, due to reduced unemployment, the need for the budget to fill the pension allowance is lower, which is of course positive. On the other hand, as we have already said on the Committee, there is no limit to the fact that this government, which boasts so much about caring for pensioners, could provide additional funds. But here I am of the opinion that we could, because the fact is that it is time for pensions to be coordinated when these pensions should be higher, and in particular because of all these events that have occurred in the past. We've funded both the banking system and the rest of the multibillion-dollar business, but somehow for the pensioners, this thing is forgotten. The debate on the infamous ZUJF, which was adopted during the Janša government, was also heard several times today by several coalition MPs. Desus was in this government at the time. Those Members who were in this Parliament at the time know why the ZUJF then accepted that, in fact, Slovenia was free from the collapse caused by the previous government, the government of Borut Pahor, the finance minister of Krizanic and the coalition, which ruled from 2008 to 2011. However, these coalition Members who today explain this infamous ZUJF, see, you are three and a half years in office, you have scissors and canvas in your hands, but you have not decided that the measures taken during the ZUJF would also be repealed. Moreover, you have temporarily changed the temporary measure taken by the government of Alenka Bratušek in relation to value added tax into a permanent one. A number of ZUJF measures, which the SDS party believes would no longer be necessary, have been extended by you. For the economic situation and the economic situation on the market, and in particular the work of Slovenian economists and economies, are going in this direction so that the matter can be reduced. Well, what else is bothering us about this budget? We are convinced that this budget is far from being able to say that it is developmental. Many, including the Minister of Finance, boasted about how this budget was, I would say, a developmental focus. I'll read you one piece of information. In the last 9 years, the State contribution to investments from 1.9% of gross domestic product sat on a total of 0.5% of gross domestic product. This means that for the development of Slovenia give the country less than for the military; and the army is already already so poor. This data has fallen from 1.9 to 0.5, this investment policy by the State itself. This investment policy for research and development, as previously mentioned by one of the Members, includes the whole private sector. I'm talking about the investments that the country is responsible for. It's a excise policy. We are convinced that excise policy is wrong. Finally, I still don't understand why a litre of oil in Slovenia is 20 cents more expensive than a litre of oil in Austria or why the family pays 150 euros less than a thousand litres of fuel oil in Maribor, Ljubljana, Murski Sobota. This seems to me to be all the items that could be reduced, and at the very least on the basis of these higher budget revenues; but no. As I have already mentioned in my position, what the economy creates, this government and this coalition prefers to sing and drink. We can't go past NLB again; NLB, I'm sure it will have an impact on the 2018 budget, let alone in 2019. I am convinced that both the Minister and the Ministry of Finance are hiding something, as they already on Saturday on the Committee on Finance as they do today vehemently claim that NLB will not have an impact on the 2018 budget. I'm sure he'll have it; at least he'll have it through a dividend or something else by selling it off. I still expect further clarifications during today's debate. We also mentioned what will happen to so-called deleted companies, that there is a great danger for Slovenia here, that the European Court of Human Rights will decide that this deletion was unconstitutional, illegal and that the state will have to pay high damages. It is a fact that the matter has been included in the Grand Chamber of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg and that it is estimated that the total amount of these compensations could amount to one billion euros, which represents a substantial portion. We know this is about 17,000 legal entities. Finally, he confirmed this high compensation and was also aware of the Minister of Justice, and I think that, somewhere in the summer, he answered this question to the Member's question as a positive answer to the fact that there is a great risk for Slovenia, but it should be pointed out that the case was not yet included in the Grand Chamber of the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. I am convinced that the government has totally fallen, and the coalition has fallen to draw on European funds. Here I am convinced that the matter is catastrophic and, last but not least, I cannot buy the argument that this government has been using all the time, that poor pumping is due to a lack of the established information system. Someone is responsible for this information system, you've been in power for over three and a half years, and I'm sure we could do something here. Finally, in Slovenia we have 1.3 million tax debts, unpaid taxes, for tax deficits I am sure it is too high. 1.3 billion tax debt already accounts for almost 15% of all revenue in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. This is a so-called active and inactive tax debt. Even more of a shock to me personally is when you look at statistics and back data that the Republic of Slovenia has written off more than half a billion euros in tax debt from 2014 to today, which means more than 500 million euros. Respectable coalition, respected citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, imagine what more than 500 million means at the moment. This money could be intended for health care, for education, especially where Slovenia has the most problems at the moment. Today, in an introductory presentation by the Minister of Finance, when she was a health segment, it seems to me that this was a mockery of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, because the Minister in some way pictured how an effective health system we have, how we have effective management of health systems, public health institutions, but not least a month ago in the National Assembly we passed an intervention law for more than 125 million euros in losses in the public health sector, and especially at the expense of inefficient management. In her introductory address, the Minister also explained how waiting lines in the health sector are being reduced mainly at the expense of major outflows from the budget to the health system. I mean, it's like the Minister of Finance is living in another world! Nevertheless, I am convinced that happiness is only that this is the last budget prepared by this coalition, the last budget prepared by the Government of Mir Cerar. For if we look at the history of this mandate, in particular the fact that this government had a policy of indebtedness, a policy of new taxes and a policy of additional burdens mainly on the economy and citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. At the same time, this government will also be recorded in the history of all governments so far in the history of Slovenia, that you have not adopted a single amendment, which the opposition has proposed for the budget, for 2018 and for 2017 and for 2016. Not one. You can't find a single asset of the beneficiary, which the opposition is proposing. This was the first time in the history of the Republic of Slovenia. For example, in our mandate, when the government was led by the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have repeatedly opposed the opposition, because we were aware that the opposition could probably also contribute to a document that is most important for the development of Slovenia, with some of its proposals. Finally, last time the government was led by the Slovenian Democratic Party and Janez Janša 2012, the opposition party of the Social Democrats also supported the budget. But we can't do that. There are too many reasons. And you take responsibility for that.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u55	Mr. Uroš Prikl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u56	Thank you so much for your words and for your kind greetings on my behalf as well! I get the feeling that today we are talking about the budget of the ZPIZ, the pension fund, there is a lot of talk here about pensioners. They're either pathetic or you're some people trying to twist words like that. I'm not going to talk about populism, but it's so unfair to show what wasn't done or, in your opinion, it should be more designed for pensioners, that you're very easy to read and people, believe me, don't fall for this fly. If populism is cartoonized that we gave a couple of ice cream to the pensioners, it is still better than that colleague Alenka Bratušek, who I believe is listening to me in a castle somewhere – than to tell the pensioners or to give the pensioners an ice cream through the bar. I think that something was done, or something is reflected in this budget; I will not say that it is ideal, because it is no longer intended for security. However, not exclusively to the defence system in the immediate sense of the word, but also in the area of protection against flood threats, fires and so forth, it is a contribution to be made to a percentage and nominally higher; a greater amount for science and research; more for infrastructure; more for health – these are some of the elements that give me optimism that this budget is however developmental and that it is so optimistic that it is yet so positive that it can produce some positive effects both in terms of providing social state on the one hand and encouraging economies to continue to develop and carry its positive effects. Yes, that famous ZUJF – I use this adjective in addition to this law – which has affected a whole range of social transfers, we soften it and we have practically softened it. With the next financial year there will be virtually no more effects of this fabulous, I will repeat, ZUJF; back social transfers all, including children's allowances as part of family benefits, are returning higher DSPs, unemployment benefits and so on and so on. What was done in pension and disability insurance? We have, of course, raised the lowest pension to 500 euros full-time, but of course we will not stop here until the lowest pension is such that it will allow the pensioners a decent life. This is not a social adjustment, but this is the income that pensioners get for their past work when they gave up and built this society. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u57	Peace in the hall, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u58	Thank you, Mr. President, for taking care of the order, obviously. Furthermore, the error of pension reform was voluntary inclusion in pension and disability insurance. We have eliminated this anomaly, and people who have paid and been misled in some way, including this, will be compensated, of course pensions will rise. As far as valorisation is concerned, yes, small steps, we have begun to coordinate after five dry years, if you want to, when the pensions have not been coordinated, we have started to coordinate them on a regular basis and on an extraordinary basis. Desus is also the one who has brought into the coalition agreement that if economic growth is more than 2.5% of GDP per year, we will coordinate pensions. At the time, it seemed ridiculous to many, unattainable, impossible. They said, "Here you are, it's not going to happen anyway." Here, it's come to that. This year, next year and all the following years, we hope that, in addition to regular coordination, the system law will also contain extraordinary coordination of pensions. I will not waste my words on the annual supplement, the regression, my colleague Kovačič said clearly enough. Yes, but it always remains in this cascade system – no more than before the crisis, 2nd grade, now 5th grade – there is always a risk that someone who has one euro higher or lower income per year will fall out and get a lower amount. But we estimate that it is necessary that in this mass of pensioners, there are only 5 of these classes because we estimate that this is more fair. And here they all get, regardless of the amount of the pension. But we will never be fully satisfied, at least until then, not until all those pensions are at this level, that no pensioner for his past work will have to have such a pension to risk social exclusion and we will work on it. Our goal, so far unfulfilled, remains, of course, the demographic fund that we wanted to bring — and we have brought — into the coalition agreement. It has not yet worked — the hope always dies — so we hope that something will come out of it. I will not mention the new Ljubljana banks here, because I do not see any direct impact on the budgets that we are currently changing or will be changed, I believe we will also accept. One pain remains that these banks have been recapitalised and one of the state banks recapitalised, that is, us Maribors, especially in pain, Nova Credit Bank Maribor practically sold for a fortune. We don't have it anymore, dividends don't even come to this side of the Atlantic anymore, but what they do remain there, and that is, of course, one of the pains that some of them who were in power at the time and made commitments and went to America for expensive credits that we're replacing today with cheaper credits, made promises and there was something that needed to be realized. I'm going to let myself be able to answer someone else for a while because I expect some reaction from your side to this implementation. Thank you very much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u59	Mr. Ljubo Žnidar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear fellows and colleagues, it's a very nice greeting for all of us from my side! When I listen to the discussions of my colleagues on the government side, I feel they are either in opposition or they are unaware that they are on the government side; in short, they express dissatisfaction with the budget. But look, dear fellows, you're that part of the government, you're government regulators. You're preparing the documents, you're preparing the budget, you're an integral part of it, and now don't cry and cry. And the other question is, what did you do? Dear Desus, you have promised a very clear and loud promise: The pension will be a thousand euros. Loud and clear. Today, ask your pensioners if they are satisfied, and those who have 350, 400, 500 euros in pension if they are satisfied with Desus, who makes only promises, do very little. So I would say here, it is necessary to be aware in fact of who that component of the government is, the government regulator that has this possibility. And we, in opposition, look at the shortcomings that we see on the ground or that we see on some priority – I believe that there is, of course, little money for all segments of the budget – and that is why we need to choose a priority. And I'm going to focus on a few areas, because I can see that we're kind of macho in some areas. Maybe I'll get started on my pension first. In my opinion, the gap between the lowest and highest pensions in Slovenia is inappropriate. In my opinion, the lowest pensions should be raised, the highest, privileged pensions between 2,000 euros and 3,000 euros, and they should be reduced. This would be the right measure, which would also produce certain results, as well as satisfaction in the wider part of the pensioners who receive those lowest pensions. Let me get a little more professional, technically. Anti-flooding measures. In the budget already, not only in this budget, but also in the previous two, we see relatively small funds to reduce flood risk; in short, investment investments to reduce the potential for damage by [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u61	Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u62	The flood. [[…]] For it is necessary to know that the flood is not an earthquake that cannot be predicted. The flood is a recurring result of daily rain, on average twice a year. On average, we face floods twice a year. This is not a matter that cannot be predicted. On average, we can expect it twice a year. We devote a considerable amount of resources to the resolution of flood security, and then, of course, we pay compensation for the damage caused, rather than through an expert approach, investment and, of course, other measures, to prevent the damage done by the growing stormy rivers at the time of the flood. Finally — Who Is to Blame? It is our fault that we do not approach this area as we should. There are a number of projects at the Ministry that have been adopted spatial arrangements, including project technical documentation; in short, projects are ready immediately with the possibility of moving to realisation, but there is no means. I know very well the river basin of Savinja, both in the upper stream and in the lower stream, the technical documentation prepared for implementation, in particular the section from Prebold to Letus, the arrangement of the left bank of the Savinja river at a Circus length of 7 kilometres on hold for seven, eight years. Nothing happens. Savina crosses the hills there, causing damage and so on. In short, the water is flowing, nothing happens, it is causing damage – approach, action, in fact there is no listening. Hereafter, if I look at the transport segment, because the budget is just a look at the future and first, I will focus on items that do not require large funding. This is the preparation of spatial and technical documentation. This is the first step of the approach to a project and here you can see the direction. You can't see all these directions in the budget! At this point, no new transport project is being prepared, not to mention the third development axis, no project technical documentation is being produced. If we are talking about sections in relation to Croatia, Postojna-Yelšany, Koper-Dragonja, and the procedures for placing these routes are not ongoing, we know that these accommodations take place there for about five, seven, up to twelve years. This budget does not even see the beginning of these necessary segments, which should be urgently launched, but every day we face transport chaos in all segments or, to say the least, in all parts of the Republic of Slovenia. There's been a lot of talk about the need for a third lane on highways. It is true that the journey from all parts of Slovenia to Ljubljana from one hour has now been extended to two hours. In five years this journey will be extended to three hours from the initial hour. And the third lane on the highway will not solve this, but it is one of the essential technical segments that will cause great chaos, the Ljubljana ring of the highway. Sooner or later it will be necessary to think about the outer ring around the capital city of Ljubljana. This will be the largest traffic jam in the future in the Republic of Slovenia. Take a look at this magnetogram in five years, what I've been predicting here today with my forecast that within five years, the biggest traffic jam will be the Ljubljana ring, which does not actually have these solutions at this moment, is not even planned, and this will be the biggest obstacle and the biggest bar in traffic in the Republic of Slovenia. In short, the preparation of large projects, the preparation of spatial accommodation, the preparation, the production of technical documentation for these solutions to be initiated or put into effect, these solutions in the budget in no items. They're practically gone. They're gone! There are several segments in the rail sector, this famous second track, yet we know how it is running and how this matter is handled through a special law, even though the budget of the Republic of Slovenia will have an impact on this project. If I go to the field of economics. More or less all discussions are focused only on expenditure. It is very rare for someone to focus their debate on revenue into the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Revenue is planned for one billion more than last year. Of course, this is due to this government's strategy. That is to say, I would absolutely say that by repressing more revenue into the state budget, at every step, in each tax segment, the suspension of penalties; in short, more repression in traffic and in all segments, or if someone does not cancel the tree in his parcel in accordance with all the rules, this is a very repressive approach and this also increases the revenue. I would agree with that if these increased revenues were also properly spent or spent further in order to reward and generate social income in the circle then back into the budget. In this case, I would agree, because most of these revenues are self-consumption or, in other words, public sector spending. But here I am not focusing at all on the police and the military, who are doing their job well in the minimum financial capacity, but on the whole other segment of the public sector. Not to mention public agencies and so on; in short, these unnecessary and redesignated services are huge. It's huge! Yes, the government likes to boast or SMC: We are very successful, we have brought Magna to the Republic of Slovenia. No, you didn't bring her. The Slovenians bought it. It cost 28 million. It cost us 28 million to bring Magno to Slovenia. If we did a business zone with these 28 million, we could build a complete business zone, and I guarantee you we could hire more than Magna will hire in this space. We bought the Magno, but we didn't bring it, it cost us 28 million, Yaskawa a little less, a little over 5 million. We bought a magnet, we didn't bring it, and I don't consider it a major economic success. However, it should be borne in mind that the economy is the one that generates revenue into a budget that creates higher pensions that creates better conditions in health, education and all other segments. It's an economy. This is not how the economy is invested or how I would not boast. You wouldn't be bragging. Let us help the domestic economy, or I feel that if we helped the domestic economy with 28 million, we could hire more. I will not touch because it is not actually budget-bound, but it is indirectly – selling NLB. Look, it doesn't matter if you invest millions in a business entity every year – well, a couple of years ago we invested more than a billion dollars a year – then it's bottomless, not state silver. Why the government is so defending the sale of NLB is, I think, very, very clear to all citizens and that the guess is no longer here. It is not that it causes this or that it is a segment of the banking and financial stability of the Republic, but that it is a segment of the barrel with a pipe which has a cash flow very clearly and accurately directed. Thus with this purchase, even though it is for 5 euros, NLB must of course be sold so that it will not have to invest these strong millions in our largest bank. In short, this regulation in the budget itself is incorrectly targeted, of course, because of this, the 2018 budget itself cannot be supported to such an extent, with these guidelines. We have always been preparing amendments, suggestions, improvements, proposals, in all these years, no proposal from the opposition, but no proposal from the opposition has been taken into account. This is said to be a very clear intention: the opposition is completely wrong or, even if it is right, we will absolutely vote it out. This is not the good of the Republic of Slovenia, it is the political predominance of who will vote on whom, but not who is right. I would say to you coalition Members: you have to separate what's nice and what's right. It's nice if you can easily vote us over. That's nice. The nationals of the Republic of Slovenia will decide if this is the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u63	Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u64	Thank you very much, President, for your word. A little while ago, when my colleague Bratušek was discussing what he enjoyed, I would soon reach the limit of my pension. However, I would like to add a little to her debate that, given that there are over a billion more revenues than there are so far, and that Desus, who plays a decisive role in the coalition, does not take care of those who have been elected, and I do not know how many mandates you already have, colleagues and colleagues, in the government, that it seems that the larger coalition parties need you in order to meet the needs of pensioners. Because obviously the client is more concerned about his political February that they are always at the trough than those pensioners who have 200, 300 euros a month and have to live with it. Indeed, you have now paid a full minimum pension of EUR 500, which is charity, which has caused you to make no effort to ensure that those with the minimum wage will pay as much as possible, because they will anyway have 500 euros in pensions; both those with 600 euros in minimum wages as those with almost 900 euros. Because for 870 euro average wages [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u65	A little peace!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u66	It is as much 500 euros in pension as it is for those who have 600 euros, because less than 500 euros can't be earned. [[…]] And that's not stimulating, that's not fair. We are also told by those who have disability pensions, but you have not taken care of us because we do not have a full-time job. Because with the correction of one injustice you do even greater wrongs to others because it looks like a gift. You didn't do anything about it. On the other hand, I would expect those who represent those who have very low monthly income to make sure that they have as little cost of living as possible. Never call back, colleagues and colleagues, when the costs of public economic services rise, that is true of society, that is the station of municipalities where prices rise, they become socially unacceptable for those with low incomes; but no. It was interesting when I once did one analysis of what pension those pensioners represent at the local, regional and national levels have. You will not believe – among the highest! And everyone's trying to figure out how percentages of pensions are supposed to go up. The one with 300 euros gets a raise of 5 euros and the one with a thousand 500 euros – how much does he already have? And that's what officials do best. For example, the principal of the primary school in retirement represented pensioners with the lowest pensions and sought to increase. Rather, we read that the principals were among those who had the highest wages in the primary school region. That's how you stand for your pensioners! Like my colleague said before, we have, we've all applauded, the right to drinking water. We put her in the Constitution, everything's fine and well. And then everything was quiet – we achieved something! Really? 300,000 Slovenians drink water. Did you do something about it? We'll bring water to every household. Yeah, what's the price? Now people are wondering, how much am I going to pay a month when you hook her up with me? If he gives a third of the pension for the municipal post for the waste he will have to pay, a fee for the removal and loading of the groundwater also because he has to, yes, and the only water does not have to be attached to it in order to have a lower bet. [[…]] Ladies and gentlemen, isn't that like when they had water in Africa, when they were bragging, how they brought those poor people water, drinking water, into tokens? Then they had to pound the stone on their hands all day long to earn the token to get to drinking water. Isn't that something like this with us? 300 euros in pension and 150 euros in utility. Then you, because you can't pay, they take the house or the apartment. That's politics. I would expect the policy of those who are supposed to care for pensioners to be completely different to take care of everyone. It's the same as the unions. They take care of workers, they fight mainly in the public sector, but they did not care about the 80 000 who lost their jobs in the crisis. Since you lose your job, you're no longer a member of the union because you don't pay your membership fee. Just like in health care. Today we have a full mouth to defend, all political parties, that no one will have to leave our country, and people are dying in waiting lines for a doctor, for medical examinations. Our people! In one discussion, when we talked about health problems, I heard that there were 30 people in the waiting line somewhere in Maribor, but when they came in, they called, there were already 5 dead, dead, they didn't need to come at all. And who collects this data? Does anyone care about these people? No! No! Because it's not populist, not even six months before the election. Otherwise, at the level of municipal budgets, we have always negotiated for investments for next year. Secondly, the majority is tied up and so on, today we hear that 28% of the higher infrastructure budget is. For shoveling? For the second track? For investing in infrastructure. I've heard how important the second track is and that there's so much more money. Otherwise, the elections are in the spring, the investments begin in the spring that you don't have to worry because most of the contracts are concluded in the spring for this budget, and you don't have to worry because the next ones to come will be able to accept the rebalancing or contracts immediately for the various construction of different roads and so on. On the ground we listen and look at the NRP, call the mayor, the municipalities finance projects on state roads, the minister of promise, build next year, and then look at the NRP, and 80% of the funds will be after 2021. I'll call the mayor. What did the minister promise you? Yes, everything will be, everything will be. Third development axis. 75 million is expected to be cohesion funds for the southern part of the third development axis. 300 million investments, this financial perspective ends 2020, one plus three of course; but, look at the fraction, the amount of money that is supposed to be cohesion money – after 2021! Yeah, where did that cohesion money that was promised go?Oh, my God! Although the Belarusians began digging with shovels, they would probably have come across the Gorjanes sooner than the money for this third development axis would have been. Don't paint people! After all, the paper carries everything, but in this way we have over 500 items on state roads, 20, 25 years old. [[…]] How much of this will end in 2018? Probably some kind of a pass; nothing, everything's moving. However, there are billions of revenue in 2018 in the budget as it has been so far. Besides, it's too bad to talk because your time is up.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u67	Did I get it right, first the replica? Yeah, first the replica mags. Alenke Bratusek, then yours. So the word for the replica is mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Obviously, we do not listen in this room or we do not listen, so I would like to tell my colleague again certain facts. Not that we talk about each other, it is sad to talk about two lollipops of ice cream when we talk about pensioners — in front of a pole or a pole. Once again, and people know that they know, but the fact is that Desus has been in all the governments in our country since 2002. When the bank hole was being dug – you were there; when it wasn't being repaired in time – you were there; when it was being repaired – you were there, but now again another is responsible for all of this. That's not working! Yeah, it's hard in the government, it's hard to make tough decisions, but they can't be held responsible for all the bad things by others, for all the good things, but Desus is guilty and responsible. It just doesn't work. With a billion and a half more incomes, respected colleagues and colleagues, we should take care of the pensioners as needed! Not with or without two cones, that's a fact. And don't give a populist explanation of how to address people, but tell them the facts. I can show you again the number of graphs we've given the pensioner along with you in the past, along with Desus. That's a fact, these are numbers that please don't turn around otherwise. If you are in government, of course you are guilty of what is bad and responsible for what is good, but for everything, not only because of what is good and not because of what is bad. Once again, we can look at the numbers, billion and a half, in this billion and a half, we could find 20 million dollars for the normal payout of the regression, we could also find solutions for disability pensions, widow's pensions, and more. You just let that go, and with that amount of money, that's not right. People, of course, find it nice to explain how nice it is, how you took care of them, only because people see and feel. Only during this session did I get a bunch of e-mails asking me to tell you not to cheat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u69	Replica, Mr. Franz Jursha, not on this one, but on the previous one.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u70	Thank you for saying I have to be quick because I don't have enough time. It would be very good, Comrade Zvonko Lah, if you have already mentioned the director, probably there from your end of Slovenia, to be okay if you say your name and that this director is not working according to the program of this party that I represent. You've read that some -- and I think we all probably know what you meant about officials to keep their job together. I have to tell you directly, but I don't have this habit of fighting inside the National Assembly, I've always wanted to be corrected, but this time I'm going to tell you. You, too, have left the SDS to New Slovenia to stay by the trough and it is not right to actually discuss and evaluate your colleagues or other political parties or parliamentary groups. Who was covering for something in the government? You know, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance. And we know who the Minister of Finance belonged to, and that's what I think back there behind me.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u71	We continue the debate. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Just for a little while, I'm still going to check in with the amendments. I thank you that some coalition Members are reading us the reports of the European Commission, that we know how to read ourselves, that we are reading something else, not just what is good and that also encourages us. However, the fact is that we are also reading the report of the World Economic Forum for 2016 and 2017, which notes that the Slovenian tax environment does not promote investment or work. The assessment of the incentive of the tax environment for investment shows that Slovenia is among the analogue countries last. The same report also estimates that in the area of the incentive of the tax environment, Slovenia has agreed to Austria, for Poland, for Slovakia, for Germany, for the Czech Republic, for Hungary, with a slightly lower estimate between comparable countries. Ladies and gentlemen, today 90% of the debate would not be if you, a coalition and a respected Government, were to modernise our business environment at the beginning of the mandate, in order to make it more competitive. We should carry out a tax reform, a real tax reform, we should carry out a health reform, we should not spend the whole day talking about health problems, now, of course, the President of the Government has lost his nerve, which is perfectly normal; we should carry out a pension reform so that when our young people retire, they will not be as poor as we are, and respond today when we have a budgetary debate, to the question whether we are ready for the next economic crisis that will come — when it comes. I am pleased to have the Minister of Environment and Space with us today. I think it's necessary, Minister, as much as you can do. Please note that we will be more intensive in promoting the creation of renewable energy sources. You all know this is where we're lagging behind our commitments. I can say this very freely today because this spring I installed a heat pump — so that no one would tell me I was saying this for myself. But what about those who bring home thousands of euros a month or 500 euros? When is this going to go to O.V., to renewable energy? Never! You change this policy, Madam Minister, or nothing will happen!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u73	Mrs. Vojka Shergan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u74	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! Today we are discussing the budget, and at the outset I would say that the budget provides funds for all needs and for all groups of people. I think it is right to point this out in the introduction, because sometimes in the debates, however, it is debated and debated, as if the budget is really devoted to me, I don't know who. In short, the budget and the appropriations in the budget are intended for the needs of the people. The budget is development-oriented, although we have heard a lot of comments from the coalition, pardon, opposition. Of course, I believe that the opposition would make up a different budget, because it is also in some way legitimate and it is. Each group of people and each group of people can think in their own way, and when they are in position, they also plan, implement and run processes as they think they are right. Why is the budget development-oriented? The budget is development-oriented, however, because investment in infrastructure, science, security and health has been followed in the budget composition.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u75	Can I have some peace, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u76	A little earlier it was said that there were no investments in infrastructure and that this was only an increase in funds at the expense of the second track. This is not true, for it is for infrastructure, infrastructure and rail as well as rail, that is to say for 2018 945 million and for 2019 887 million more. There are also more resources for science, for the first time the funds are increasing, and for security, as we have already heard, for the police as well as for the military and also for health. In fact, resources are doubled for health compared to 2016. There is also increased funding for renewable energy sources, amounting to 822 million. So much for the development budget. Of course, the macroeconomic situation has improved significantly since last year. Therefore, the budget follows the goal of reducing the country's debt deficit of 1.6 billion [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u77	I'm really asking for some peace, come on.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u78	achieve a structurally balanced budget, follow the medium-term fiscal objective and the balanced development of the whole country of Slovenia. [[…]] This, and of course, will also help in the coming year: economic growth, growth in exports, more employees, less unemployed. Here, let me say that in October the unemployment rate was 83 000 and in fact the lowest unemployment rate was created, and in fact the unemployment rate in the euro area was 7.9, and in the euro area was 5.2. We are now talking about reducing unemployment. I'd like to do that, too. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u79	Come on!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u80	has warned that in the economic field, when you meet entrepreneurs, we are already faced with the absence of adequate workers with appropriate competences and a completely different effort will be needed here. [[…]] It will be necessary to train those who are in the institution who are able to work in order to be employed. Of course, some, and we need to know that, but they never will. But these, of course, have to be done with social adjustments and social subsidies to ensure that these people live decent lives too. Of course, increased private consumption, including investment growth, foreign and domestic growth, is also on the rise. All ministries have highlighted and stressed that they are satisfied with the budgetary perspective in view of the state of play at the time of taking up the mandate. Here, too, I would like to point out that for the first time since 2009, investments in primary education are being made again. Otherwise, we'd want more, but it's a start, and I believe that's going to continue somehow. We also have a surplus of 51 million for the first time since 2008, and it has been pointed out here by the opposition that it was precisely because of the European perspective 2007–13, but it would have stopped and somehow pointed out that the drawback of the funds when we took the mandate was catastrophic. We were just before all these resources were lost for development and the first task of this government and ministry, the SVRK, was to establish mechanisms for drawing on European funds and first results suggest this [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u81	A little peace, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u82	In fact, 200 million funds for 100 per cent pumping, and it has threatened, we will not be able to draw on these funds at all. [[…]] Of course, I agree, as it has been pointed out, that in drawing on European funds it is on the one hand that the state must establish certain mechanisms to be able to draw on, and of course the local community and actors on the ground who must have projects that must then make sure that these European funds are exhausted. It is also critical that European funds are also drawn from a new perspective. Of course, we would all like it to be better, but today I, for example, have received an e-mail special report from the European Court of Auditors, in which they warn and note that, despite some of the European Commission's actions, pumping is bad and that they still find that the documents are very difficult and I believe that, on the basis of this report, there will be a joint effort by both individual members and the European Commission to change this. But I want to warn you, yes, I agree, it's not all ideal, [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u83	Please, if you're talking, talk outside.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u84	However, sometimes we condemn and criticize for a long time and for a while, sometimes even those who work and advocate to be successful or to be well - done, and in fact, our populist statements deny it somehow. [[…]] It has also been pointed out that the budget is structurally different. Of course, it is structurally different, although it is important to note that this government has met since the very beginning with a series of anomalies that have occurred and a number of errors have to be corrected. Wage anomalies had to be eliminated, and then sharp cuts in the past, which had taken too rigorously some human rights, were also shown through the budget during this period, even in the public sector. For example, the minimum wage, which had previously had no allowances, then changed this and are now recognised at the minimum wage as well. And a number of other anomalies, so that we don't go into too much detail right now. It was also said that the fiscal world isn't that it's negative. [[…]] I also listened to a presentation of the Fiscal Council's opinion, but it was also mentioned in this opinion that debt reduction is going in the right direction in the budget. Of course, they also say that more structural effort is needed, but of course it means on the other hand, sometimes we silence people if we make more rapid changes and if we somehow do not redistribute these changes, then on the other hand, we cannot expect people to know this in their wallet if I briefly express themselves. Of course not, because reforms, if I touch on reforms, on the one hand mean drastic cuts and if resources are allocated to reforms and if these are too rigid and if they are not properly defined, then citizens and citizens feel too much about this weight on their shoulders, in their revenues. Just like it used to be. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u85	Now, if you don't calm down, I'm gonna break this session!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u86	in 2012, when a number of persons were deprived of their rights and subsequently returned. [[…]] You're saying there's no reform. I would mention, see, pension reform was in 2012 and the first effects of this pension reform – it is almost now giving first results. That's what you say. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] No, it's not our fault! It's no credit, my dear fellow! It's not our fault. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u87	Lord Jean-Mahnič, a reminder.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u88	But I want to say that the reforms that someone is adopting, like you 2012 – look what year we are, they are only now giving first results. [[…]] You cannot then expect that the changes that we have made in these three years or our government has made it possible for everyone on the table to have results and to have effects. These results and these effects can then be measured and compared gradually. Therefore, tax restructuring in tax reform has also been an appropriate measure for us, because it simply does not change and interfere radically, but gradually eliminates the anomalies and then establishes a system that is also easier to implement in practice. Now you're saying there's no health reform. However, in health care, the Health Insurance Act and the Health Insurance Act are structural changes in the health care and health insurance system. Now, if we look at it, the effects of this reform are not, of course, known today and here, but will be known in the future. This is what we are committed to, and in these reforms we are particularly committed to public health. Now, because you are earlier, and a colleague mentioned how we are classified as Slovenia. I would like to mention the World Economic Forum. This is the data from September when Slovenia won 8 cities on this global competitiveness scale and holds 48th place between 137 countries. Do you know where she got her best grade? You will not believe – in health and education! Now I don't know if I'm reading it wrong or not? [[…]] Everyone just reads what pleases him. In short, the worst estimate is, however, in the area of financial market development, but we all think that health is the wrong thing to do with education. In fact, it is only a matter of time before changes to the Health and Health Insurance Act are in place. In what way citizens and citizens should also feel more economic growth, I have already reduced some things, but I would also like to touch on the fact that in tax restructuring we have thus corrected the income scale with a 1.6-fold scale. That is to say, those in the higher income class, as well as those in the lowest, because already in this year's income scale, which will be visible in the payment of income, will save 300 euros a year. It seems to me that for incomes of about 10,000 euros a year it is also a savings, I'll say. Then we gave the students some relief. The children’s allowance will also be given to families with seventh and eighth income classes. Business performance, this is the 13th pay will be, in the coming days we will adopt an additional new tax package for this year, where even 100 % will be income relief. There is also a minimum pension for the full-time period of EUR 500. I will say here that I agree that this is not enough, but the first step is. This will certainly bring a certain amount of income to the people. Once again, I would like to stress that this government is using resources for the needs of people. At times, however, I would like less populism and more suggestions that would be good for people in this sense, not to develop populism, but to really touch people in this sense without, as my colleague has already said, giving one group something, and then taking it away from another group, and always doing wrong. I am also advocating this on my own in any proposal to follow the fact that we are trying to do what is right and right. During these three years, many positive measures have been taken by the Government to bring such results today. Although, of course, the economy is full of taxes, contributions and working people, but in some ways, if the government does not provide an appropriate environment, of course there is no success in other areas as well. I therefore think that the proposed budgets are right to lead to the stability of public finances and to the direction that makes our country stable. However, the scope of public spending is designed so that we can implement and that there can be more favourable economic conditions so that economic growth can be. This conjuncture, which, of course, is at this point, must be used to prepare for a new economic establishment, so that we are somehow more prepared for the next crisis. Maybe just one more thing. For the last time, we are also on the committee, and today it has been mentioned that all amendments are rejected. But I'm going to say that some of the amendments that were rejected were actually on the committee itself. So let's say how much is going for the 3rd development axis. When the amendment was tabled, the Ministry of Infrastructure explained very clearly why some projects do not have a financial item in the budget 2018-2019. Now, because the explanation was already very precise and long there, I also have it in front of me, but I would like to point out that it is somehow envisaged that individual sections of this 3rd axis are regulated by documentation, that accommodation is regulated and that construction is expected to start in 2020. And see, if some construction is foreseen for 2020, then it is really pointless that some budget funds are provided already in 2018 or 2019. But okay. I have also thought that it might be right to be more friendly to each other, but more interlinked not to take it for granted that everything is simply rejected because it is from the opposition, but some of the proposals do not have the right basis. So much for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u89	First, the replica of Mrs. Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u90	Mrs Vojka Shergan, with all due respect, I would expect from you - you said that we speak populistally and you do not. You keep saying: we've made changes, we've put in place measures. Could you please specify one measure that you have put in place and will be shown in two years' time? Since the measure you introduced in health care, the reduction of waiting periods, has increased, it has waited hundreds of times. That's one thing. Don't talk, we've introduced measures, we've introduced changes, we're for public health. No, Mrs. Shergan! You speak, we are for quality, quality health care in Slovenia, regardless of which is public or private. But I ask you again, you have a chance to answer the question, what are the concrete measures in the areas of health, education, European funding, infrastructure and so on? You can just go to the item and the item. However, I would be interested in health care because I have heard from our group leader in view of your debate that we do not have the idea of health care in our House, that he will convene a special meeting of our Group of Members, and that you will be able to teach us, because we are supposed to have very good health – so you say that international research has shown. Mrs Šergan, I ask you to open today's media, open any portal, any newspaper today, and read what is going on in Slovenian public health. Yeah, your government gives money to people. Yeah, where's he gonna put it? But the question is, for which people. That's a big question! 136 million isn't for the patient who's been waiting for six years. No, for the suppliers, Mrs. Sherganov! For suppliers. I can give you a list of the suppliers who got that money. Please again: measures that will help prevent or help to reduce the health deficit in the following year 2018. That UKC Ljubljana will not have 99 million losses, that hospitals will operate positively, that young doctors will not go abroad, but I can continue to list something. As for the European funds, Mrs Shergan – which bubble do you live in? 2014 did not begin the European perspective. 2014 – I mean, a new yes, but it used to be. The mechanisms, Mrs. Shergan, were set up earlier [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u91	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u92	Because they don't work in Europe, that's a replica because they don't work in Europe by making mechanisms for not knowing [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u93	It's not a replica at all, not from the beginning, but anyway.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u94	I invite Mrs. Shergan to answer my questions. So the measures that this government has taken because it has said that they have taken measures to ensure that Slovenian health, education, European funds are in the future, and so on. Because we do not see these measures in the opposition today, and neither do people, [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u95	They're three minutes away.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u96	Then I would ask you, if you can then, in your discussion, because you still have a chance, answer. [[…]] At least that.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u97	Now, anyway, just in case, I'm going to read paragraph 70 of this article talking about the replica, so we can be clear about what we're talking about and why we can skip the line. “Every debater has the right to reply to the debate of another debater, a replica as far as this debate relates to his debate, if he considers that his debate was misinterpreted or misinterpreted. The chairman shall give him the floor as soon as he requests it. The replica shall be limited only to the necessary explanations and shall not last more than three minutes.” This is one of the starting points, and then the point is that the replica is not allowed, unless it's a really extraordinary thing about what I don't know and the chairman has to evaluate the matter. Now, given what I read about article 70, he has a word for the replica, Mr Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u98	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll take care of it. Dear colleague Private Shergan. I recognized myself in her discussion. My dear colleague, without the budget being structurally different, is structurally inadequate. These are the words of the Fiscal Council – invite Dr. Krukka to coffee! As far as European funds are concerned. I am pleased that I am not indignant that Ljubljana received 69 million in the middle of August European funding for a 135 million-million-dollar sewage project. But I would be happy, you know, to get something from the periphery, and the peripheral mayors are calling me, "Hey, what's this, just centralization again? Is this Slovenia just Ljubljana? What about us? Yeah, nothing, now we're going to deal with the quarterly report again briefly, and let's see what it is. If you have read somewhere that after some foreign reports, health care is in a super state in Slovenia, you as a Member are obliged to respond. Because you know that's not true. One year ago, I was trying, asking the Minister of Health when the early detection programme of Dora's breast cancer would be available to women in Pomura. I don't have an answer today. Here we have representatives of the Ministry of Health, I hope they can answer something. As far as drinking water is concerned. Here we witnessed a parade of water pride, but today Goričko still has no water! We need 40 million, and I thank God the Minister gave me some hope on Saturday to find this 40 million to build this water infrastructure. 280 000 Slovenes and Slovenes drink water, which does not have a declaration “drinking water”, if I may say so. Despite the Stop! You can write in the Constitution a hundred times! I think, but now there will be something in this budget that we will still rule out the right to drinking water. Although the Constitution is not an enforceable act, it says much more, it gives some direction. So I've got a slow head full of this. [[…]] Yeah! You have calculated well, and you say that after five years, our pension reform results. This ensures a sustainable system by 2020. Today, in 2017, five years from now, if you reform today, the effects will be – when? In 2022! You missed two years! It's a black dot.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u99	Ms Jožica Maučec Kokotnik, State Secretary, Ministry of Health, spoke now.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u100	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to answer a few questions from today's debate. Perhaps an answer to Mr Horvath's fellow Member first. In Pomura, Dora, a screening program for early detection of breast cancer, opens on November 24th, now this month. [[Applause]] Then, in January in Koroška, it is said, now in Celje, Pomurje, Koroška and thus we ensure that the whole of Slovenia is covered by a screening programme for early detection of breast cancer, and this is provided with a truly quality screening programme, which allows women from 50 to 69 years of age by screening for every two years to really detect this cancer and that in the health system provided by this programme, it is also said that further consideration should there be any suspicion of cancer. I might point out here that in Slovenia we are one of the few countries with all three screening programmes; it is said in areas where there are actually proven effective screening programmes, Dora, Zora and Svit, covered early detection of breast cancer, cervical cancer and colon cancer and taxes in men and women aged 50 to 74. Zora’s screening programme and Sweet, which now runs for nine years, Zora since 2003 at national level, have indeed proven to be pre-cancer changes and have an impact on the reduction of cancer. It is said that Svit, 8 years old, 9 years old, decreased the number of cancers that grew steadily, over the decades, from year to year, from 2010, 2009 began to work at national level, and in 2013 there were already 350 colon cancers and lower taxes. This decreases from year to year. Of course, we also detect early cancers, 70 percent and 75% of the cancers in Sweet are detected in the early stages. At the same time, all three programmes provide very high cost-effectiveness. Thus, if we only take Sweet, we will invest €6 million on an annual basis and save EUR 20 million on an annual basis. As far as this is concerned, I can really assure you that we are leading in Europe or even in the world. Maybe I should answer a few questions from the budget. In fact, what we are going to provide with the funds is 40 million euros, which the budget has taken over and thus has burdened the health treasury and has left this 40 million in the health treasury, in fact, to allocate funds to reduce waiting periods and also for the new necessary programmes. These funds are intended to provide postgraduate training for healthcare professionals, such as providing funding for trainees and secondary workers and specialisations for the needs of the public health service. Of course, we also have certain indicators for these funds, namely to finance the costs of trainees, we will provide funding to 3 000 200 trainees in 2018 and 2019 and 2020, each year so much, and of course also the number of specialisations: with 2018 530 specialisations of medical staff – doctors, a thousand 100 in 2019 and a thousand 800 in 2020. This measure, in addition to decommissioning, provides for an uninterrupted and adequate number of qualified health workers and healthcare professionals for self-employment in health activities. I must point out that the Ministry of Health or the budget is taking over the costs of this, and the Ministry of Health is also taking over the task of the planned call for specialisations under the relevant legislation, together with the professional and healthcare professionals. It is said that on the basis of the establishment of a network of health workers that will provide appropriate services and through the planning of specialisations, we will be able to provide an adequate number of specific specialisations in the health system where we need them most, of course. The second question was how we will, of course, be a hot debate and, of course, we are not all sure or not all convinced of the efficiency of spending resources, there are 18 million euros, which are already earmarked for this year and also for the next year to reduce waiting times and ensure quality in health. I must stress that we do not have enough resources in the health system to provide all the services that our population needs, because all these years, as we say from 2008, you are all well aware, during the crisis, the prices of health services have decreased year after year. A very busy pile of money has been taken away from health care during this time, and it is difficult to expect that, with the funds we have in the healthcare system, we provide everything we want. We must be aware that it is said that the modern world or Slovenia is among them, of course, that we have an increase in chronic diseases – expensive treatment and the health system needs new funding. [[…]] Nevertheless, we are confident that we will achieve this 10% reduction that we have set ourselves. It is said that waiting periods at first outpatient checks over the permissible waiting period and also the number of waiting patients for services beyond the waiting period. We have set ourselves an indicator from the baseline for a 10% reduction, and we are certainly confident that we will achieve this in the coming year. Then it was a question of investment, namely, what are the investment funds for the Celje General Hospital, whether this is a new construction or a reconstruction. It is a project at an existing location, part of the building is being demolished and a new construction is being carried out in this part and reconstruction is being carried out in certain parts. In 2018, 5 million are intended for the preparation of documentation and for redesign, and in 2019 construction begins in three phases. Perhaps I would just point out this, because it was also somehow obvious that there is not enough funds for investment in health care. It is certainly likely that we would need more, but in 2018 we provide EUR 38 million of integrated and European funds and an additional approximately 30 million of the accumulated funds of the budget fund and that 10 major investment projects are actually in 10 institutions. Maybe even more effective public health institutions and reducing health losses. Of course, we all know this magic number of 136 million euros. By means of an intervention law for the positive operation of public health institutions established by the State or government, the aim is to help to achieve a positive business through the remedial measures or the recovery committee appointed by the Minister. This resolution committee, which has an advisory role, shall draw up expert baselines for the preparation of recovery programmes and these programmes shall then have certain performance indicators to monitor the effectiveness of recovery, taking into account the institution and the way in which they operate. However, once again, I would like to point out that the loss in these public health institutions is not the result, as is evident, only or because of poor business – and probably partly – but because of all these reasons that I have already stated; it is said that there is a progressive decline in the financial resources in the healthcare sector which are intended for health services. It is said that the lower prices of health services, which amounted to a large amount of resources, you know, also, almost one billion, was what was withdrawn. It is said that this business improvement measure will, of course, be an appropriate measure to ensure that public health establishments operate adequately with regard to the rehabilitation programmes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u101	The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance mag has the floor. Sasha Jazbec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u102	Thank you so much for saying that. Nicely greeted! I must respond to the fact that this government has at its disposal a billion 400 more tax revenues. That's true, but where's the money going? The balance of the state budget will be better in the following year than in 2014, says when there was so much less revenue, by a billion 250. At that time there were a billion 195 deficits, and next year there will be 51 million surpluses. In addition, savings measures in the public sector in the area of wages have been released in the meantime, so that the salaries of public servants are paid, it is said, for direct budgetary users and for indirect users, that is, through transfers to public institutions, 340 million more. It means, for people, for public servants. In addition, it is dedicated to science 68 million more, to the safety of 150 million more, for health, as the colleague has just said, 80 million more. That's where the extra money goes. It is true that it spends significantly less on interest, 227 million less on interest we will pay next year than we did in 2014, but this is due to several factors. One is the situation in financial markets, a historically low level of interest rates. That's what it's all about. The second, which is not given, is an assessment of the situation in the Slovenian economy, both macro situations and fiscal situation. Credit rating agencies estimate us significantly better than they did years ago. In September, Moody’s increased our rating by two credit ratings so that, together with higher credit ratings, a lower premium on credit risk can be made so that the state can owe it cheaper. Here, too, we had to be active, we had to actively manage debt and trade dollar higher coupons for euro bonds with lower coupons. Thus from here savings must be made lower for interest [[…]] The second lower item is investments. 220 million are lower than in 2014, but taken as a comparison or for the base year 2014, is not very professional, since 2014 and 2015 were years of economic or investment cycle peaks. You know that the old perspective of European funds 2007-2014 was being concluded at that time, and investments in the coming year are planned at EUR 944 million, which is more than in 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013. So we are going back to the level of comparable years that were not the top of this investment cycle. The third lower item in the following year is the transfer to the pension register. You have discussed this subject extensively and the fact is that the state budget will pay for the pension allowance less, but it was again in 2014, if compared with it, the highest transfer to the pension fund. And it's still an absolute number, an absolute transfer paid by the state budget to the pension fund, about a billion 200. So it's still not about a few hundred million, as was last said, but it's still this billion 200. But I don't think it matters to the pensioners what is the source of their pensions. I think it is important for the pensioners that, let's say, in 2014, the pension allowance was 4 billion 950, that this year the upper limit laid down in the decree is 5 billion 156 – that is more than 200 million – and that next year the upper limit for 2018 is 5 billion 381. So, another 225 million. There's only two more sentences on pensions. Until 2009, they were coordinated by system laws. In the period 2010 to 2014, pensions were practically not harmonised, but they are now being coordinated more than by the system law from 2016, leaving behind this value judgment, but the fact is that the formula for the reconciliation of pensions is linked to inflation growth or to wage growth and inflation rates, and that in 2015 and 2016 we had deflation in this country, it is said that the overall price growth measured by this index fell. Nevertheless, the debt of the country is increasing during this period. Of course, the country's debt rises either in the state budget or in the country's sectors whenever the deficit is shown. Including this year and the last ten years, we spend more than we collect in this country, so every year we have a deficit and therefore we finance this deficit with an additional debt. However, it is a fact that we will have to pay additional debts or that we will have to re-indebt ourselves each year when one bond falls, when a bond of billions of dollars falls, you issue a new bond and then you refinance these needs. However, debt is reduced so much in line with fiscal requirements that as a share of GDP is reduced. Regarding the assessment of the Fiscal Council, which, in its assessment, stressed that the budget was partly consistent. Here I would like to point out that we have already discussed here this as a European Commission dictatorship, which assesses countries or their fulfilment of fiscal matters in a matrix where you can be consistent, partially consistent or at risk of serious deviation. This government has already chosen the path of gradual fiscal consolidation in the beginning and will achieve its medium-term fiscal objective in 2020. The medium-term objective, i.e. the medium term objective is a structurally balanced budget or the budget of the state sector, if I am more precise, which does not mean a balance of nothing for the Republic of Slovenia, is a flat-rate balance, but represents a demanding structural surplus of 0.25% of GDP. Thus, we will have a medium-term target when we reach 0.25% of GDP in the structural surplus. This is what we plan to achieve in 2020. However, this is our goal because we have an ageing population and are exposed to the costs of ageing due to demographic pressures due to the demographic situation. We stress all the time that the path or speed of fiscal consolidation is important. Maybe two more explicit questions that I've been tracking on our subjects. With regard to NLB and the planning of NLB dividends, or the entire dividend policy in 2018 and 2019, we have already explained on the Committee that we also counted on dividends in 2018, because the country owns the bank this year and it is only logical that in the year when you own, that when you share the profits, you will get a part of that profit and that the country will also remain in at least one part of the owner of the New Ljubljana Bank. Thus, it is justified to continue to expect dividends from this Title. Another issue was the tax debt. Time line, if we look at what the Financial Administration is doing. The Financial Administration shall continue to collect more public financial benefits each year from 2014, while the tax debt situation is lower. So if we're looking at it, it's the only relevant indicator, now you're looking at the debt situation in terms of the public financial benefits collected, and this percentage is decreasing every year. From 10.4 in 2014 to 9% at the end of last year. We only have half a year's results this year. So the amount of duties collected is even higher, the debt decline is again lower. Thus, in essence, the time series shows the effective recovery of tax debt, as well as in comparison with other financial administrations, our financial management is successful, since at annual level less than one percent of public financial benefits remain outstanding, but the tax write-off is mainly due to bankruptcy proceedings and this is not one new method of reducing tax debt. So much for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u103	I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u104	Yes, thank you very much. In the course of the discussions, a great deal of emphasis was placed on this positive edge of the 2018 and 2019 budget. This positive wage, as we are looking at it, is based on higher tax revenues, the State Secretary has been talking about 1.4 billion since 2014 and we can also talk about one billion larger public financial revenues if we look at situation 2017, if we estimate for revenue for 2017 according to 2016. Approximately 500 million of these revenues were actually higher in the first year of 2017 compared to 2016. That's true, of course. And now the second question that I have raised in this morning's debate is whether all of this data, macroeconomic indicators, macroeconomic data, including what the Secretary of State has actually stated now, whether all this positive energy actually comes to people. Not only in the form of energy as such, but also in materialised form, and whether this budget is actually for people. I don't think so. We can talk about macroeconomic issues here, how great they are, and people in their wallets will actually have nothing. Of course, you'll always be able to say, it could be even worse, it could be even worse if the three came, it could be even worse if we didn't do one or the other then, but they wouldn't actually have a lot of that. Here are the first ones to be warned about all of this, on the one hand, are pensioners, because the ZUJF, however accepted by the government of Janez Janša at the time, is still valid. Ladies and gentlemen, not only does it apply, in fact, those provisions that are in the ZUJF are simply transposed into other laws and, therefore, it actually happens that these measures do not wish to be eliminated or that government does not wish to abolish them, although it has higher revenues, has economic growth and so on. That's on the one hand, if we're talking about pensioners, of course. What has also been said now is that the pension register will have a year of 4.5 billion, a second year of 5.2 billion and so on, and because it has been stressed that this is important for the pensioners. No, ladies and gentlemen, for pensioners or pensioners as an individual, it is an important pension that they receive each month in a transaction account. Whether or not the pensioner has 5 billion or has half a billion for him, it matters to him whether he has a pension of 370 euros or a pension of 390 euros. But he has, if I speak figuratively now, still 370 euros, even though when the ZUJF was the most restrictive in this area, then the biggest restrictive measures were, if I say so with the Slovenian word. This is the problem with this budget to channel money into the wrong channels! It is. And if the Minister of Finance says, I am not talking about more transfers, but about creating conditions – yes, ladies and gentlemen, you created conditions by raising tax rates in a simplified way, I would not mention them again. We did not reduce, we did not create better administrative conditions, but it was mainly at the expense of tax rates. If now the Secretary of State is talking about 340 million and he says, yes, that's for people, 340 million we'll pay more for the salaries of public servants. Okay, nothing wrong. But how many other ways will you give for those who are not public servants? For those who actually pay? How much will you encourage these conditions? It is now at the heart of the problems of this budget. How long will it be for those who are not civil servants, or how long will it take to invest, how long will science go on? Is it enough for science, but is it enough for education? That's the problem with this budget, I'll say. It's not like we're just gonna give public servants more money now. And so can others, and this can be channeled. And here is not this development component or it is not highlighted enough by this development component. It is also not sufficiently stressed that those matters are resolved definitively, which have been done with the ZUJF, but that this ZUJF continues to drag on. You don't have to. No macroeconomic indicator indicates that this ZUJF is moving forward. Here, too, it is always stressed that interest is tax. The interest we have to pay is a tribute. See, if today we have a lower interest rate debt, then of course this is not a tribute. These interest payments of one billion euros are then not given and the government has done something in this area and it is right to continue working. If we are talking about the Fiscal Council and whether or not it is in line with the Fiscal Council or, as has been said, partly consistent. I think that the opinion of the Fiscal Council should be taken very seriously, even in connection with the structural deficit, because the state or government has failed to provide such a foundation for public finances, so that in the event of the re-crisis that it will come once again, because in this economic system, every 7,8 years, this crisis is repeated so that the country can then have such sound foundations that it can simply survive the crisis in the most elegant way and without any denial. But she didn't do it, and they point out that if you want, world economists and global financial organizations. Christine Lagarde said we live in abundance, the whole world, economic growth is rising, but make structural reforms for bad times. See, this government has not made them and will not make them before the elections; in the health sector, which is most critical in this regard, even in the field of more favourable operating conditions. Here is the problem with this budget. Otherwise, I agree that with as much money as you can get now, it's easy to do it, it's not a problem. The problem is that it is necessary to prepare the country for a situation where the situation is not so good – this is the first time; secondly, to give people what they actually deserve or what they gave up during the crisis; and thirdly, to give young people perspective. I'm young enough to have them stay in this country at all. According to data or people, 8 thousand 800 young people left Slovenia in 2016, according to the Statistical Office. Eight thousand 800 Slovenians! A few years later, with so many people coming to Slovenia, but these were not Slovenians, we can expect a completely different composition of this country, even in terms of demographic movements. But see, even with this budget this coalition, this government does not give the opportunity for people to actually live here and have a real perspective. And that's not right!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u105	The word is Mrs. Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u106	Thank you. I'd like to touch the pension first. Desus keeps talking about how they helped to raise pensions in the years to come, so that, I don't know, the pensioners will obviously live in what kind of well-being. I would ask Members of Desus and, of course, the government side, how with long-term care or with this – of course, it is still not – and that, at the same time, when the Government announced a pension increase of a few percent – today we have heard comparisons of such and different – we have also come out with this draft health insurance law, in which calculations are such that the provision in the home, the price or the cost of an individual pension will increase from 250 to 800 euros, depending on the case. Now you are saying that you are for pensions, an increase in pensions for several euros, while at the same time the Ministry of Health, which took responsibility for the law on long-term care – previously at the Ministry of Labour – we get calculations that are shameful to the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. A long time ago, the Community of Social Institutions of Slovenia filed an action against the Institute of Health Insurance of the Republic of Slovenia to pay too little from the health treasury for care in homes. Of course, certain differences have to be paid by the caregivers themselves and, under the new law, the providers – as I said – will pay more on their own from 100 to 830 euros. Now you answer me whether the Government, or Desus, especially Desus, should answer, or would support such a law that burdens older than 80 years, especially because 50% of those over 80 years of age need this care. This percentage will, of course, increase by another 20% in the following year or continue to increase, definitely because you keep stressing that the population is old, which is clear to all, and it does not have to be interpreted as much; whether Desus will support such discriminatory law and what the ministry says about it. Is that the law we got in sight, or is that true, Madam Secretary? Whether the calculation made by the Community of Social Institutions is true, I will only read you two or three cases that have been calculated, how much more will it take to give to the caregiver. For example, the caregiver came to the home for breaking hips and loneliness because he lived alone. Now, let's say, in addition to paying for the health insurance company and so on, the user paid €699 in addition, monthly. He will now pay much more for €465 more, under the new law. So home care, a man who came because of a broken hip and loneliness because he lived alone and is in a home — in basic care. For 465 Euros under the new law more! How much higher will this man's pension be?Oh, my God! What are those two cones of ice cream or what it was like? The next example is home accommodation. The caregiver lived alone, became immobile, had no family and so on, and now the difference under the new law will pay EUR 118 more to provide. The man, who is a stroke and is installed in a home, is immobile, on a probe – 245 more euros. So, I ask you in Desus, stop beating your chest – and in the coalition – how you work for a pensioner, how you work for the elderly, when you raise your pensions, while at the same time increasing the cost of the new marriage of a caregiver who will not be able, or a caregiver alone, not by means of some place where social problems are, not by relatives. Already today there are great hardships, especially for demented people and those who are immobile, and for a new law, if it is enforced as it is – and here I would force the Ministry to answer if these data are held by the Community of Social Institutions of Slovenia – if it is true, then today it is best that you are all silent about these pensions and care for the pensioners, because you will make even more distress for the elderly, especially those who will need these home care at home or other. The other thing, of course, is health. 136 million, but I don't know how many times you've given for people, but for certain people and not for patients. 136 million! When you said it wasn't true before, I will only read to you the 20 biggest creditors in UKC Ljubljana who together give 53 million. Quick to read: »Besides the Institute of Transfusion Medicine, Salus, Trade, Chemofarmation, Johnson&Johnson, Sanolabor, Roche, Medias International, PRO-GEM, Gopharm and so on. These are all suppliers which together for UKC Ljubljana show claims of 53 million. And now you're telling me this is about people! It's not working. The money in Slovenian health care is not followed by the patient, never before, and this ministry and this government have not taken any action to help avoid such a difference that the patient who does not receive care in Slovenia and who goes abroad to take care of a private person is paid by the insurance company if it goes to a Slovenian private person. Now explain it to me! Where are the measures to get paid, regardless of where the patient will be supplied? Because in one case, the court ruled, he went, I think, to the dentist private, to pay for this care. Why do you work discirministly with your home physicians? Why don't you pay for this supply in the private sector? If you're going abroad, there's no problem. So, now, after a new or growing departure, they're going to foreign patients, doctors. See the website where they offer jobs in Austria, Switzerland, Germany. The doctor gets it, the pay is written next – right away. Young doctors share these links on social networks. And the minister still says: Not with our measures, with the budget, with more money for the education of young doctors or to transfer from health insurance to the budget, we will do so that young doctors will stay at home. [[…]] Yes, the indicators, Madam Secretary, but you have written so, in this case for these 40 million for specializations, we read euro because I don't know man or how it would be 3,000, comma, nothing. Write the indicators 3 000 200, not as if you were writing the euro, so that you can read it, because everything in the budget is written like that. So 136 million in Ljubljana, UKC Ljubljana, 90 million losses, and you will now cover this by intervention law. You've destroyed a child's heart surgery, whether you want to hear it or not. You ruined it. And now, what did you do? I would now like to ask the Government for an answer here, because there is something in the budget. “The Ministry will establish a new public institution”, said the minister, “who will implement the programme of child heart surgery.” I have now received information that someone from abroad is supposed to be working on this program, foreign experts, because apparently everyone has escaped at home, and those who could work have left. And this — two of them — is supposed to have a salary of three or five times higher than that of local experts or department heads. Since I cannot find it in the budget, I ask you where is the establishment of a new public institution in the budget, how much money will be spent on this new public institution, and how much you expect work to cost. Because according to my calculations, if they're holding this information, if there's two of them, it's going to be 240 somewhere, somewhere over half a million dollars a year. However, it is not guaranteed that this child heart surgery in Slovenia will continue to work. So, money goes to health in the last year of an abnormal amount, an abnormal amount. And once again, today we were also talking about the E.R., if this minister was to save this ER. This emergency in Ljubljana is 2007; today she took pictures with Mr Cerar; there was also Mr. Zemlarič and everyone – we have not seen the director of the current one, of course not because you are tearing him down today, if you haven't already, and SMC, because everyone in the world of the institution of these 6 from the government will now be SMC. So, what does that mean? A coup d'état or a coup d'état at UKC Ljubljana, or Desus and SD said, we will no longer cuddle with it, save the day. From now on, it is only SMC's responsibility, 6 members in the world of the institution, who will now be humble ministers, will be saved by UKC Ljubljana, which devours the budget money. And it is true, as the secretary said, that these losses are not only due to suppliers, but mainly due to suppliers and the ministry and the government have done absolutely nothing to make less money for these suppliers or less for material. And it is true, yes, also something due to wage increases and reduced service prices. But that, Madam Secretary, is what you said today, the Minister said last time that it wasn't true. That that's not true. But you at the Ministry will now have to consider whether these losses, which we are also hiding from the state budget, are from taxpayers' money, why these losses are and how long the budget will have to cover them, and what are those measures to avoid these negative numbers. You at the Ministry, the government has released these austerity measures, take responsibility for these downsides. Not that! Nobody in Slovenia takes responsibility for bad things. But when it comes to taking pictures in UKC Ljubljana, when we know what the situation is, today our Slovenian health is great, then we are all there or you are. I would like to ask for answers: Where in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia is the money for the new public institution of child heart surgery? How much will work and everything else be for this program? Give us the answers, specific: on which item, how much money for 2018. Is this a health check or a budget? From where? Not smokin', not smokin', baby heart surgery ain't shit! This is a program that is very sad to start in such matters, and there will be a lot of money going on in here, and there will be no way to get rid of it. You have SMC from today on because you have the members of the board of the office and also the director you set up or your minister, the full responsibility here. Apparently, I say, Desus and SD do not want to participate in this anymore or do not want to take responsibility for the complete collapse of UKC Ljubljana. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u107	The word is Luke the Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, Mr. President, and a nice greeting to everyone. Initially, I once again drew attention to the technical problem in the budget, which I had already pointed out on Saturday at the budget meeting. In fact, for the acquisition of new 8-wheelers, new patios, the budget memorandum on page 11 states that 52 million euros will be allocated over the next two years, and the medium-term defence plan of the country adopted by the Government in July – not the ministry – but the government – which also includes the Minister of Finance, contains 72 million euros. So there are 20 million differences in these two documents. So once again, on Saturday we agreed to provide a written answer to this day. This was not the case, so I expect that the Ministry of Finance will at least orally explain why this difference arises; for one government document contains 52 million, and another government document contains 72 million. I just want to know which number is correct and how much money you're going to invest. We had one plot of patriotic acquisition years ago, and we all know how it ended, and I don't want you to get eight new bikes in this way again. However, the problem with the budget we have in Levica is a little larger than that. In fact, everyone has now talked a lot about the necessary structural reforms, about how to manage the public financial surplus, which only occurs years earlier. In Levi, we believe that the Government's efforts are largely insufficient on the revenue side of the budget. Thus, if you place Slovenia alongside other countries in Europe, you will quickly find that we are substantially below the average of taxes on property and on capital taxes. For these two tax items, we absorb substantially less resources in the budget than comparable countries do. In relative terms, France captures seven times more money in its property tax budget than Slovenia does. The Liberal UK has three times as much capital tax in its budget as Slovenia does. Therefore, the result is still the same as it was three years ago. The average Slovenian citizen, employed, middle class, goes to work and pays taxes, is more burdened, relatively speaking, with tax duties than, say, his wealthier fellow citizen, who, for example, lives on capital deposits and spends or spends on renting an apartment. The worker is significantly more burdened than someone who lives simply than giving away apartments or being a capital investor. This is not just an anomaly in the budget, it is also the injustice of our tax regime. Therefore, we expect that the next government, this government, has no more time to interfere, but that the next government will at least eliminate about this anomaly. As far as the expenditure side is concerned, we have long warned that defence spending seems completely redundant. Slovenia is not either militarily threatened or in no way security threatened. We have a neighbouring Austria, which is a neutral country and we see no reason why Slovenia would not also pursue a position of neutrality in the world and thus avoid spending on NATO missions, to purchase equipment for participation in NATO battalions, to spend money on acquiring new patriots. 207 million will be spent on new floors, 1.2 billion on weapons for two NATO battalions, 46 million per year are the running costs we have by participating in foreign missions. All this money, or at least most of it, should invest in what is mentioned even this afternoon. Thus, we have substantially underserved investments in development and research, reducing, even in the light of previous years, investments in health care, in particular in health infrastructure, and under-investment in housing. Once again, for the national housing fund, EUR 790 000 is in the budget of the budget of the devaluations, with market prices currently being such that virtually Slovenian citizens can no longer afford them with our salaries, not rent, nor the purchase prices of apartments, and these are the gaps in which the state should intervene. We know that the budget as a small opposition party cannot be substantially changed. We understand that the government and the coalition have decided on a concept, but we want to point out where the anomalies of this concept are and what should be done in the future. Nevertheless, we have prepared several amendments, with which we wish to at least minimally correct what the Government has imagined. So I'm going to take a few minutes to brief you on what you'd like to fix. The first thing I would point out is a work inspection, in Slovenia we have a work inspection, which has been reduced from 87 to 78 employees in the years of the crisis, with only 42 labour inspectors currently dealing with violations of labour law. These 42 inspectors are supposed to have a review of violations of the legislation in as many as 200,000 business entities in this country. I think that you can draw an image from these numbers already, that this is practically impossible work and that the inspections are here and there, but they cannot systematically follow whether the labour legislation in these companies is being implemented or not. On Saturday, when we discussed the law on the implementation of budgets by the Minister, we were assured that the legal basis for hiring 20 new inspectors in 2018 is. Why the '20s? Such a decision was adopted with the support of the coalition on 6 July this year, when we discussed the situation in the labour inspection on a proposal from the Left. However, with the amendment to the 2019 budget, we also want to provide funding for this, says 600,000 additional appropriations for the budgetary user of the work inspection to employ these 20 new inspectors next year. We think that this is a completely realistic budget item and that with some minimum will of the coalition should be adopted. Then we're a little more ambitious in housing. That would add 4 million additional resources to €790 000, which would be, let's say, a minimum incentive to start encouraging alternative forms of housing and housing sharing. These 4 million are primarily targeted at housing cooperatives, but we note that if we want young people, especially young people who have difficulty accessing housing under current conditions, to live in this country normally, there will have to be much more investment in housing policy in the coming years. It will be necessary to ensure that prices on the market systematically fail to ensure that the Housing Fund does not operate as a real estate agency but, in fact, as a housing fund, which will provide rental and purchase of apartments at non-market prices and target the groups they need. Above all, I have here in mind people from my generation, and I have already talked about this on the committee, because many simply see that if they move to Vienna, to Berlin or to another European city, they have a rapidly better life there, significantly better conditions for work and life, the wages are higher, and it is easier to get to apartments for lower prices. In Vienna, rents are lower than in Ljubljana, for example, although there is a standard of living, the standard of living is two to three times higher than here. This is the task of both the national housing fund and the country as a whole to ensure both legal and infrastructure conditions so that we can approach this objective. The third amendment, which I will now present, is a means of social assistance. The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs calculated that the minimum cost of living in this country is €613 per month for a single adult. If we subtract resources for recreation, cultural consumption, insurance and housing from this, we will come to €443, which is supposed to be an absolute existential minimum in this country. We want the minimum social assistance to be equal to that number. That is to say, as far as the absolute existential minimum is concerned, the State must guarantee to anyone who for such or other reasons cannot obtain a job or is unable to work. That's why we'd need a more ambitious number. Our amendment defines EUR 50 million, and it also defines from which headings this money could be obtained in as little a way as possible. We caution, however, that as a country, as a parliament and as a government, we must ensure that economic growth and prosperity, which have returned to the country in the last few years, are shared with all. I hope that the government and the coalition will understand the good intentions of our amendments. We have not tried in any way with any demagogic tricks, such as the funds that our country has to pay for the external obligations it has, to redirect to local roads or something other than what the parties have done, but we have tried in a constructive way to cover those areas that we consider to be priority areas and where we have expected our views and positions of the current coalition to come together. That's it. I'll get it over with. As I said, we hope that in the coming mandates we will be able to draw up more socially fair budgets and more particularly development-oriented budgets, which will have a concept of how to develop this society and not just how to approach some very abstract macroeconomic specifications, such as, say, what the ministry is saying about the structural balance of the budget. The budget is primarily a means by which the country pursues social, economic and development objectives and, as such, should also be considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u109	Mrs Urska Ban has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u110	Thank you so much for the word. Nice greeting on my part too! For the next nine hours, we are already discussing the budget, two budget documents for the next two years. After all these discussions, I probably won't say anything quite new myself, but it may be right to repeat something, because today, too, in this Chamber, it has been found that we are simply not hearing each other. I would have started like this, but although this has already been said several times, it seems important to me that the main guide in the preparation of these two budgetary documents, as has practically been the whole mandate of this government, was to ensure the stability of public finances. Now, let's think about this point again. In 2014, our deficit was more than one billion, down to 1.2 billion euros. Today, we are talking for the first time in ten years about the budget surplus for the Circus €50 million in both years. And that the main objective in the preparation of these two documents was further fiscal consolidation, in my view, the only true principle, the only true objective, as it will probably be the basis for the stable economic, economic and social development of our country. It is true that today's macroeconomic movements and forecasts are very favourable, and that is probably why our expectations are, not only ours that accept this budget, but also the expectations of our citizens and citizens, are justly high or high. In light of the fact that we have high economic growth, positive growth, when the economic environment is favourable, when the labour market is on the rise, when more people are working, when unemployment is falling, it is likely that our expectations are high as a whole and in particular in certain segments that may be closer to us. I find that quite understandable. And it makes sense that we would like to make up as soon as possible for all the backlog that has been detected in many budgetary areas by the crisis in many budgetary policies, programmes. We know that the Public Finance Balance Act has reached out to a number of areas, not to mention specific, really substantive areas from science, education, sport, to wages, to pensions, to social transfers, investments, municipalities. So all of these segments, which are budget consumers, have somehow been worse than they would have been. But in the face of the situation we have today and in the face of the fiscal policy that this government is leading, it is not possible to place this amount at an absolute level already today. I will say again, even this year, in 2017, we will still have a deficit in the budget and as long as there is a deficit in either A or B balance, this means that we are still spending more than we have, and that is why we must be indebted. And why can't all of these absolute numbers release all the measures that have been adopted and enforced in the past? To a large extent, these systems, which I have previously listed, are systems whose operation or management has somehow been determined before the crisis; this should be the payment system, the financing of municipalities and the rest. All these systems have an impact on public finances, one way or another. While we can talk today and in the future about whether these systems are financially sustainable, whether these systems are the best, or whether our pay system we have is the best, financially sustainable and so on. But like I said, they were set before the crisis. Then the crisis came and austerity measures started and in the meantime we also wrote down in the constitution that we will balance public finances so that we will not spend more than we have. We have set ourselves a goal to achieve this structural balance by 2020. We have written down, by 2020; so gradually, not at once. This ensures a balance between fiscal consolidation and support for further development, as I said before, both economic and development at all. A sharper limitation of the expenditure of the state budget could lead us to a contraction of economic activity, which we have seen in the past. We are now in a situation where we are gradually releasing austerity measures on the one hand, it is said in all the areas I mentioned earlier, and we are still consolidating the financial situation, so that we can then discuss the different conduct of such a policy in the coming years. It is right that this whole bag, the whole budget small we have, we look at together and we do not take each item out of this bag individually. I do not know, the item of public servants in particular, the item of pensions specifically, the material costs, which have been mentioned many times today, and we interpret them in our unique way outside the entire context. It seems fair to me that the additional resources available today should be allocated so that we can balance all areas as much as possible, because all areas are important and there has been something taken away from everyone in the crisis. And what does our government do, as shown by these budgetary documents? We are gradually releasing savings measures on the one hand in the case of pensioners. What was already done? The minimum full-time pension was raised, the regular and extraordinary harmonisation of pensions, the annual allowance, then, for the salaries of public servants, we also release savings measures, are not yet fully released, there are restrictions on regress, collective pension premiums, some restrictions on performance and so on. In previous discussions, public officials have also been and quite exposed as one of the items where we raised expenditure. And yes, we did, and it's probably the same, because they were also solving the crisis in some way – on the shoulders of public servants. At the time of the crisis, which, of course, came for various reasons, it was probably not the fault of the pensioners, nor of the public servants, nor of others, they were also carrying a heavy burden. Their salaries, if I may say so, have been reduced by some linear measures. It is right that this situation is also being remedied, of course, within the scope of the opportunities we have. Then forward in the area of transfers of individuals, households. Especially in the area of family policy – we also release austerity measures here. Then the averages, the municipalities. The Minister has also previously said that the average has never been as high for the municipalities as it is envisaged for the next two years, but not as high as it is for the law. These are all items where the austerity measures taken are released, as shown in these budget documents. Perhaps now, given that the debate is both on the committees, on the Committee on Finance, as well as here today, much has been going on about pensions, I cannot say anything on this subject myself. In the last three years, 2014, 2015, 2016, the pension allowance level has been around €5 billion, while this year the pension allowance will amount to €5 billion 160 million and €5 billion and €381 million in 2018. Therefore, these figures show that there is more money for pensioners both in 2017 and in 2018. It is true, however, that the State budget commitment to PPIZ is lower by 330 million than it was in 2014, as the cash flow due to more favourable social contributions, due to higher employment, covers its obligations to a greater extent than it can in 2014. However, as the Secretary of State previously said, it is probably not the most important or important for the pensioners whether the money provides the state budget or the money is provided by Kad or ZPIZ, for the pensioners it is likely that they will receive more than 433 million in 2018 from the PPIZ cash register or that the PPIZ will have more cash registers in 2018 than in 2014. That seems important to me. We've been asking a lot of questions about what's in this budget for people at all. With all these powerful billions of dollars more money we have, nothing is for people. I absolutely cannot agree with this statement. As has been said many times today, we are spending more resources on security in the widest possible forms, more on science, more on wages, more on pensioners, support for new investments and thus new jobs, more on transfers to individuals and households. All of this is, in my opinion, directly intended for people. Perhaps another statement about investments that have been mentioned several times today. It is important to stress that in 2014 and 2015 there were some special years. They were the strongest investment years for the conclusion of the European Cohesion Policy 2007-2013. It is probably not appropriate to compare today's or this level of investment foreseen in the 2018 budgets, 2019 with these two years, and despite all that, investments for 2018 are returning to a level higher than EUR 900 million, which is more than has already been said, as in 2010 and up to 2013. And yes, it is true that in the 2018 budget we have planned 1.36 billion more tax revenues. It holds more than it was in 2014. However, we also have a slightly different state budget result than we had in 2014. It is better or lower by 1.25 billion euros. Once again, in 2014, we had a deficit of €1.2 billion, when we talk about the 2018 and 2019 budget, we are talking about a surplus of €50 million. And yes, we also have more resources practically on all budgetary policies, on important budgetary policies that enable the further development of our country, on security, on health, on investment, on road infrastructure and so on. At the same time, we have under the line, as I said before, both for 2018 and for 2019 the budget surplus after the decade, when, if I say so again, we faced only red numbers under the line. This is probably the best possible basis when we continue to discuss further options that our country has in the economic, economic, social and best possible basis. I am of the opinion that the budget documents under consideration today also adequately support all these content that will enable this objective. That is why I would no longer repeat what has been said many times already today, what are our priorities, which will follow the objective of our country's further development, but because I really believe that this budget covers it properly, even on the financial side, I will support this budget myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u111	Mr. Jean Mahnič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u112	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Government, colleagues and colleagues! If coalition Members were so busy adopting this budget, when drawing up this budget with Slovenian citizens and citizens, as they were dealing with an illegal migrant from Syria yesterday and today, then I am sure they could claim that the money that is more is actually going to people. And I'm going to do a little more or just go on there, and I'm going to point out once again what my colleague Jelka Godec said. I think that on 24 hours one of the top 3 news is right this time, the title is “From 100 to 830 Euros of more expenditure from your own pocket. This is supposed to bring about a new long-term care regime.” And what's the reason for that? Not enough public resources! “The key reasons for refusal are the low funding of services from public sources. In the light of the demographic changes that Slovenia will experience above average, without additional resources for long-term care, we will not be able to provide decently for the elderly, who will be left even more than today to the thickness of their own wallets and the capacity of their relatives." Then we open the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 and look at the item Long-term care and it is immediately clear what the necessary thickness of the wallets of citizens and citizens is being talked about and how this thick wallet, which was available to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, how from this thick wallet citizens and citizens in the case of – a concrete example – long-term care will not receive this growth and this increase in the budget. So much about how much the coalition cares about citizens and citizens, of course, let those who come from Syria be top priority, 120 million euros in the past year is no problem, it is immediately found, and it is barely in the 7 million euro budget, fighting 7 million euros for the long-term care of those who have spent so much money this year that they can buy two cupcakes of ice cream. I agree with all those who have spoken and fingered today and, above all, with regard to the pension, with Desus. The Desus Party is a developmental bar of every government, and I am sure that the government would not have a party to Desus – any one; this former, formerly, before the previous one, every government since 1096 forward, with the exception of the Bajuk government in the middle of 2000, where there was no party to Desus – knows how it went. You can't say how you feel about the pension increase, but at the same time defend that the New Ljubljana Bank needs to remain in state hands, and you care little, even though it is already over, but I think we would also pay EUR 360,370 million without a problem, only that the private ATM of some lobby-related people who are actually running this country and setting up puppet governments to live well for you at the expense of those to whom you gave two cupcakes of ice cream more this year. But as long as Desus is leading such a policy, as the prime populism of this government, Karl Erjavec will say that we prefer to give three million euros to pensioners instead of having a second round of presidential elections – personally, I am in favour of not having a first round, but that the President of the Republic elects Parliament with a two-thirds majority of all Members and Members. I hope that in five years' time this Parliament will be elected to be able to do so much wisdom and to change the constitution in this direction and that we will no longer witness to such farce as has been the case for the last three weeks. However, if I go back to the budget, there was a lot of talk about security and defence. However, if I go to the budget lines of the Ministry of Defence, we know how many times this Parliament has debated the defence sector in plenary, we know what the situation is in the Slovenian Army; since this area has been run by the Social Democrats, this resort is a whim. In this mandate alone, some 400 members and members have left the Slovenian Army, and this trend of course continues. Now, let's see, let's continue to remember what we promised in 2014 about NATO in Wales, that by 2020 we will have two percent of GDP earmarked for defence and within this 20% for investment. Dear Government of the Republic of Slovenia, dear Secretary of State, now you tell me how it is possible, although it has been made clear that in the following year the defence budget will be so that the percentage of GDP we are earmarking for defence, and now I am looking at the entire department here, it would be more appropriate to see only the item under the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces, because this is what is actually the military, but if we are looking at the predictions of Umarja, the situation is this: in 2016 it was the defence of 0.96% of GDP, in 2017, we went down again to 0.93% of GDP, Mrs Jazbec, see the GDP forecast for this year's website and a simple account; what is on the Ministry of Defence's line, share with this and you will get 0.93%. [[…]] In 2018, according to the forecast – I think it is 45.2 billion, that there will be GDP – and here we have the budget of MORS 435 million, which amounts to 0.96% of GDP. Tell me where 1.1% of GDP is next year, as you said next year will be. It is a pity that the Minister of Defence is not able to hear what the additional 46 million are going to do with this, which is commendable of course, but should be given as early as 2014, in 2015, when the Chief of General Staff, General Osterman, said he urgently needs EUR 46 million because the system is in the existential crisis. Then you ask what you're going to buy for that money. Yes, we will now complete or acquire uniforms and boots and personal equipment for soldiers. This is investing in the basic equipment of soldiers, not in the security of the state or in the improvement of the Slovenian Army. Madam Secretary of State, please tell me where you will get half a billion euros by 2020 for the middle battalion fighting group. Too bad there's no secretary of defense because I'm really curious about how to buy eight-wheelers. We need 50, the minister said, next year we'll buy seven, and in two years we'll buy seven more. But it's the same on all items. This defence budget does not bring any modernisation, but the armies are giving themselves some bits to say that the Prime Minister of May will be able to say in the parliamentary elections that you have raised the defence budget. But you know, it's not just about the NATO relationship, it's also about our security, but it's about the NATO connection, and it's only a big deal: how much of GDP is about the defence budget. And we won't be in one percent next year! If economic growth is even higher than predicted, we know the climate is favourable, this percentage will be even lower because we have nominally what we have, GDP is rising and, according to GDP, of course, the defence budget will fall. Slovenia's credibility in NATO will thus be reduced and forgotten, I see that there is an additional EUR 7 million allocated to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the continuation of this Slovenian Rusophilic policy, which, of course, also reflects and shows how countries, in particular those countries that actually apply something in the world, support us in implementing the arbitral tribunal's decision. Apart from some polite look at the framework of an action, the concrete support that would actually lead to implementation is not and, given the policy that Slovenia is leading in the external field, will remain in this regard. I remember how Dr. Peter Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure, said that if we want to have some serious infrastructure programme, if we want to stop this collapse of our state roads, if we want to talk about some serious investment, then we need some 350 million euros on this item. Well, how much did the Mira Cerar government devote to Road Transport and Infrastructure? I'm down 225 million euros! Then you're going to watch the NRP, plan of development programs, and I've flown a few things fast for my constituency. Practically all things will be completed on 31 December 2023. Next year you're spending 100 to 150 thousand euros on individual programs, so of course it's inside that something says it's not exactly zero. In particular, you will spend virtually nothing from 2018 to 2022, but in 2023 you will give 24 million euros and the matter will be done. How many times have we heard that the Northern Blaze Oblast will be completed in 2018?Oh, my God! There are no funds, as promised by the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Peter Gasperšič for the completion of the northern Bled Oblast in 2018. That I'm not even gonna mention the South White Bandit. It is a shame that for decades the country has not been able to regulate transport infrastructure in the most touristic place in Slovenia, in our pearl, as we like to say, with whom we treat everywhere. But when people come and when, I don't think they can even book on the south side of the Grand Hotel Toplice, because one meter from the window is driven by tow truckers, then they see what Bled is really and how the stepmother state behaves towards it. Not to mention Treby-Soviet Road. Everyone knows this road well, there goes the great marathon of Franjo. For years and years it has been said that some overlays will be completed next year, but as regards the most important, walls and coasts, the project will be completed at the end of 2023 and, of course, the main part of this will be done in 2023. Not to speak of the over-needed railroad in the Jurassic because of the industrial zone, but of course, one thing is what the government is saying, the other is what the government is doing. Unfortunately, it turned out that, I think one of the portals has taken the main impression of the opposition well: this money will not go to citizens and citizens. Colleagues have already told you where the money will go, which is further earmarked for health care – mainly for overpayments, for the richness of those who go as interrogators to Mrs Jelka Godec's committee. I now read that the Director-General is being dismissed, but that money will not reach the patients, it will not reach the citizens and citizens. One hundred thousand more people waiting in health care if it actually turns out to be less, then you might say, the money that's more under our government is actually spent on citizens and citizens to improve their status, to improve their wallets. Look, then we're wondering how it's possible for a mayor to come in, get a new face and get 47% in the presidential election. You know why, ladies and gentlemen? Because people are full of different promises and arguments in this House. Because people today have no interest in anything but the thickness of their wallets, the situation, the care in this country, the health care, the roads they drive because they pay for it. And they're right. And they're right! Instead of being sober, the government has presented things a little differently than it represents, because not all are as pink, of course, we continue to listen to how money is for people, and next year there will be new stories, new affairs, because under this government, under this minister more money in health care means only more money for the mafia that emptyes this health treasury. How's the money going for the people, and we've seen it on the pension case. Not least, I think they had an extraordinary meeting last week, at which we also discussed the changes to the PIZ, given that it was money. If we had confirmed that the injustice was corrected for the return, that it should be admitted to pensioners or those who were not yet retired, even those years that had been paid voluntarily, if the money were, as you say, and that it would go for the people, then we would also confirm the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party to recognize the years also to those who paid themselves for the studies and service of the military arm. But, because there are one word, the other is actions, because obviously the elderly will have to wait at home alone to die, because they obviously will not have money for their homes because they will be impressed, and the government is spending 7 million euros to help solve this problem, because it is not really about strengthening the defence system, because with 46 million euros we are buying boots and uniforms for members of the Slovenian Army – which is, of course, right because we have to, but this should have been done a long time ago, not after three and a half years – that we are not strengthening the defence system, that citizens and citizens will not have actually improved road infrastructure because of this budget and, above all, what you have done today when you Members today physically, and yesterday at the press conference, you have taken as an illegal migrant, for the Syrian, you have proven that everything you want to do. Only if you have the will to trample on the rule of law. When, like this migrant, you will stand up for Slovenians and Slovenians living with low pensions, even though they can buy two cupcakes of ice cream more this year, and then I will support the budget. But for these very reasons, unfortunately, I cannot support this budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u113	Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u114	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues, colleagues! Actually, I'm kind of happy to accompany this meeting today. In this mandate, I think we can draw an interesting story of the meetings where we have discussed the budgets. If, at the beginning of the mandate, we were quite uncertain about where these measures or policies designed by the budget lead, we can today find that we have taken the right steps and that we can somehow reap the first fruit; although the opposition here claims the opposite, although it convinces people that from this economic growth and all the other good that has happened in recent years, they do not feel anything, of course this is not the case. I believe that each of the citizens who, in one way or another, is involved in the functioning of the country, feel on the one hand that things are moving for the better, but on the other hand, is everyone's expectation, and I think that this is characteristic of the Slovenians, that we are never fully satisfied, and it is just as it seems to me that this is the only motive to always pursue some better and higher goals. If we remember 2014, 2015, elections, new faces and so on – today or last week we have been in a similar debate in the presidential elections, today we can find that these new faces are not what someone wants them to be or what they want to be, but even though this is a single footnote, because, last but not least, we also have new faces in the old parties, we need to find that the measures taken with the budgets themselves – and I believe that this is the same in this budget – Slovenia today is being placed among the countries in the European Union that have the highest economic growth. I mean, if I'm not mistaken, let someone fix me that we're third in the European Union. We can then explain what this government has done so badly that we have the third highest economic growth and that such good economic growth is also envisaged in the future that we actually have to accept some balance because we have more income than anticipated. I believe no one knows the answer to that. I am sure that every government can see that it has done nothing and that all the effects of some economic growth are in fact the result, I don't know, let's say that the economy is doing well; but when it goes wrong, in fact, we all see that it is the government that is to blame, that something goes wrong, that we do not have good economic growth. I am convinced that if we are honest with ourselves, we can find out that we are on the right track, that this government has taken the right steps in this mandate, and that these are the steps that are taking us, as I have mentioned, even as far as economic growth is concerned, somewhere at the head of European countries. There were some indications of the budget, the government's policy and the like that we are actually lagging behind a number of countries after competitiveness and so on. I'm sure if we were so damn sick, we wouldn't be witnessing the fact that we actually have the first real greenfield investment. I must also recall that, when it comes to obtaining these investments, part of the policy has opposed, minimized, and I am sure that all these investments, regardless of whether they are also encouraged by some state resources, will in the future show those results that we all want, that is even less unemployment, more added value, more collected taxes and more money for pensioners if you want. Recently, one communication was published in the media, namely that Switzerland remains the most competitive economy in the world, as the World Economic Forum concluded, Slovenia gained eight cities on this year's global competitiveness scale, among 137 countries taking the 48th place. It received the worst estimate in the area of financial market development and the best in the field of health and education. This is an assessment of the World Economic Forum, published on 27 September. I am sure that some of you will not agree with this today, but, of course, because if you agree to this, then I do not know what to do in the next elections. However, I am so sure that even though we are still doing the best we can in the best of policies, the opposition, which will oppose it, will be convinced otherwise because we would not have anything to do in the next elections. I am convinced that such articles, the assessments of some third institutions show the most appropriate or the most genuine light we need to evaluate our situation. Of course, we must not close our eyes; I am sure that there are many people who need help and who can get help, but perhaps they have not yet come. But today, when I listen to this debate, I note that it is not only those who are in need of assistance that the military budget has not come to order, that these and those roads have not come to health, that in short, the various sectors of society, which if they wanted to satisfy them all, would not have been enough of these 10 billion or less of the revenue of the budget, but would have needed them probably 20. I am convinced that our path, which is also under pressure by this and past budgets, is that we will once have a significantly better budget and that everyone will come in line – not only for what it means to eliminate Zuif, but also for what he is doing in accordance with some policy guidelines. There was a lot to hear today about infrastructure. I am sure that we have heard, not heard, in fact, we have experienced in this mandate that a number of roads, which have so far been in a decomposing state, have been restored to witness new and new investments in road, rail infrastructure. This budget also foresees some development in this area, both in the road area and in the railway area, where we have not only planned the construction of the second track, which is thanks to God after the adoption of the law in such a way that we have the opportunity to channel this budget into other things, not just the second track. We are also witnessing that we have some investments on the rail network, which also repairs other bottlenecks. In short, we are developing the railway network, of course this is one project that has already started in previous budgets, but is continuing in this. New investments are also envisaged, including in the area of motorways, state roads. I note, for example, in Posavje, that this development has been enormous over the past 3, 4 years, even if I take into account what has been committed by the Ministry and has already been introduced into this budget to build in the future, such as the new bridge across the Sava River and in a year we will open another one and similar. Progress is more than obvious. I would like to see that, when budgets come into being — of course, each government is doing its own policy — maybe have a common goal that would be designed as a plan, where it would be easier to determine whether we have met certain goals, such as whether we are going more towards economic development, infrastructure development, perhaps education. From what we have already done or what is proposed, we can decide which direction we are going, but as a society we need to agree in the long term whether Slovenia will be a technologically developed country or will draw its revenue and its future from the revenues associated with transit transport and so on. That would, I'm sure, make it much easier for us to make decisions on all matters. Regardless of whether I would like some items to be higher, I am sure that there will always be a will where there is an urgency, and that each of the ministries, such as my past budget experience, will listen to the needs of a local case and will also be able to allocate certain funds where they are needed. I want to say that the fact that some items do not have funds does not mean that these things will not be built if they prove to be very necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u115	The State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance mag has the floor. Sasha Jazbec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u116	Thank you so much for saying that. I wanted to confirm to Mr Mesec the answer that he had already received on Saturday's committee. He asked which number was the right one. In the Central Defence Programme of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry planned 72 million for the purchase of war vehicles, that is, before it got cut when it got cut, it is said that when it gets the Ministry limit, then within this limit it makes its priorities, so the Ministry decided to do so and planned 52 million in the financial plans for 2018 and 2019 for the purchase of these war vehicles. So I am just confirming what we have already told him, because the budget is the key anchor to which, at the final stage, they gravity or convergence all strategies, programmes, plans of individual resources. I would like to say with regard to long-term care that we are planning in the budget resources for those purposes which have a legal basis. The Long-Terms Act has not been adopted as such, so if the Member is looking for an item where the Long-Terms Act is written, it cannot be found. Otherwise, in this country, we finance long-term care in one way or another, namely the ZZZS, the real health care department, 163 million for purposes considered to be long-term care, the pension utility which pays the allowance for assistance and service, about 80 million per year, belongs to this category, the municipalities that pay the family assistant and the payments to the homes of the elderly, that is another 79 million, and the state budget has its own items at the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities, so that long-term care is already financed in the existing system in this way. I would like to respond to the defence expenditure, as the Member of Parliament certainly knows, but it is not enough to look at the Ministry of Defence's financial plan and share it with gross domestic product, the defence expenditure and the Ministry of Defence's financial plan are not the same. The Ministry's financial plan should be deducted from the Protection and Rescue Authority and then added to the military's pensions, there are also expenses going from the pension fund for this purpose. That's how we get to defensive spending. Guideline, the right direction or guideline, someone led Nate to be this 2%, and within this structure they care that it goes 20% for investment, and because in the past it has been saved in the defence area, this part is reduced. With regard to the figures for Slovenia, however, we had 0.95% of the defence expenditure in 2015, i.e. 0.95 GDP for defence expenditure. After the audit took place, you know that this autumn there was a revision of GDP data for the last years and that the percentage of existing expenditure fell to 0.93. Last year, according to 2016, after the initial estimate of defence expenditure was 1.02% of GDP and then due to the change in GDP, the nominal figure was reduced to 1%, while it has to be said that in 2016 there were considerable expenditure with migrants, so that the military received a significant part of it and this increased the defence expenditure for 2016. If we look at 2017, the budget was planned at 0.92% of GDP, and then this year we spent an additional 24 million 300 during the year for defence purposes, so that this year there is still a plan for the implementation of around 1%. Because you need to know that then you divide the country into 2nd grade, whether you're below or above 1%, and the key is that you're above 1%. Not to say any more numbers, the same is true for 2018 and 2019. We planned to hunt this 1%, the government also committed itself to spending this 30 million more each year, and then you change the denominator and it can be a problem in relative proportion. Otherwise, I would only point out that this 2% of GDP commitment is achieved by very few countries. I have now checked, the United States, the United Kingdom, Greece, Estonia, Romania and Poland, these are countries with 2% and countries that are close to us or are compared with which we have 1.2%. This is why the government has also set itself this as an intermediate objective to achieve target 1.2 over the next period with these annual growths, as I have already mentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u117	Ms Jožica Maucec Zakotnik, State Secretary, Ministry of Health, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Let me just keep going. The resources provided to the Ministry of Health by EU funds and associated Slovenian participation are to establish new long-term care for 2018/2019, which is allocated EUR 25 million, which is intended to establish information support for the implementation of the long-term care system, to implement pilot projects that will support the transition to the implementation of the long-term system law, to adapt and transform existing institutional protection networks and to the entry of new providers for the provision of community services and programmes for older persons and to the model of long-term care in the community. In particular, these funds are intended to co-operate with new models on the basis of the long-term supply law and at the same time allow for a safe and quality transition to a new long-term supply system, together with established information support. Now, however, Mrs Godec's very brief response to the obvious that, under the long-term care law, providers will pay more, i.e. after some of the calculations cited by the Community of Social Institutions. I have to deny this statement, or these statements, that people will certainly pay less, that these calculations they made, our colleagues have also checked, include all the costs, say those that go out of their own pocket, those that go out of aid and service, and health care. I must stress that health care is and will continue to be paid by the ZZZ and, in fact, health care does not belong to long-term care, I judge two types of services, this is support for basic life activities and support activities. There are already various aid and service supplements, some from €146 to €422, the largest, in the third category, with this highest aid and service allowance of only 2% of the population and now receive €418 of this supplement. According to the new system, they will have EUR 422, plus an additional or covered cost, which are intended to cover basic life activities and support activities, but will be paid as before at the DSO, it is said at home, whether health services at home or health care services will still be covered in both cases and will be financed by the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance. So this statement certainly does not hold, but what precise calculations of these calculations, which are shown in the newspaper, can be presented to you later because it is difficult to explain a single case here. Then also your question about the newly established heart surgery institution for children with congenital heart failures was adopted on Thursday by the Government's decision on the establishment of this centre or institution, and when all elements of this centre are planned, the costs will also be presented to the public. However, I must say that costs will certainly not be higher than costs if children who are currently being treated abroad are treated abroad, because the cost of medical treatment, surgery and appropriate accompanying treatments are twice as high as the cost of such treatment in the domestic environment or Slovenia. However, it is planned that the establishment of this centre, in addition to its own domestic experts, will employ foreigners who will help to establish quality services, and in some ways within five years, in addition to providing a high-quality centre for such services, will also support the surrounding countries, or for South-Eastern Europe, a European centre, a regional centre for South-Eastern Europe, in addition to establishing quality, education, training. However, at this first stage, we will, of course, need or employ relevant foreign experts to enable the domestic profession to perform these services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u119	Colleagues, colleagues, anyone else want to discuss this? I'm guessing yes. Anyway, I'm asking you to sign up. The application shall be made. Mrs. Vojka Shergan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u120	Thank you for your word. There are only some things that I would like to point out – and the Secretary of State herself has already explained this perfectly, and I would like to point out once again – because it seems to me that it was, if she did not take care of the powerless people, the deception of a colleague, which is why I will go through again. We need to separate what will be a long-term care as a new care system for the elderly, which is not even the law in the debate, this is one story, and the existing system already allows those who are sick and who receive either pensions or who have been employed or disabled to receive additional care. As the Secretary of State has already pointed out, I would stress this once again because people who listen to us will not think that they depend solely on the pension they receive. Regardless of the height of the pension, they can also receive a dose of the allowance for assistance and service, and this belongs practically to all citizens in Slovenia. If someone doesn't know about this, contact the PIZ and his doctor, because he can get it. Not that we say that someone gets 500 euros, and now it's over, he only has 500 euros and he can't live with it and he can't have a supply and so on. That is not true. Everyone is also being made available in some way to receive these additional funds today. The one who is immobile, as Mrs State Secretary has said, is currently receiving 418.88 euros. Even for the demented who are still in care at home and who are threatened and can still dress themselves up to some extent and certain functions are performed, they get accordingly less, but they get it as a supplement to the pension so that they can still be cared for by someone outside. So that's why I would point this out because it's easy for people to think that they don't belong to them and that they don't have any way out at this point, so I thought I'd come by again, and I explained that people know that there are these supplements for care when they're powerless and when they get sick. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. The vote on the general part of the draft amending budget will take place on Thursday 16 November in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 35th agenda or at 9 a.m. We are moving on to the consideration of the specific part of the Draft amending the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to the debate on the amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 11. 2017. We are moving to the budget user 1611 of the Ministry of Finance and to the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Payment of Rights and the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budget user 1811 of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and to the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme for development cooperation and humanitarian assistance and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budget user 1912 of the Management Board of the Republic of Slovenia for Protection and Rescue and the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme the operation of the system for protection, rescue and assistance and the amendment of the SDS Group. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budget user 1914 of the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces and to the debate on the amendments tabled in this budget user. I am putting into discussion the SDS Group's sub-programme Operational Action and Preparedness. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I apologize, I have released the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors. Don't you want to discuss it? I'm closing the debate. I am also putting into discussion the sub-programme Infrastructure and Equipment of the Slovenian Armed Forces and the amendment of the NSI Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budget user 2130 of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology and to the debate on the amendments tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Support for technological development projects and the amendment of the NSI Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Local Development Infrastructure and the amendment of the SDS Group and the amendment of the NSI Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I can see that. Mr. Joseph Horvath, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We are talking about the amendment of New Slovenia and we are talking, ladies and gentlemen, about the implementation of the law on development support for the Pomurska region. I am grateful that you all adopted the amendment of this law this spring and that we have extended it until the end of 2019. There we also committed the Government to preparing a revised programme to promote the competitiveness of the Pomeranian region between 2010 and 2019. At its 148th meeting on 14 September this year, the Government also adopted this amended programme. For 2018, 2 million €45 000 427 is proposed after this government document and a million €495,000 397.41 is planned for 2019. As soon as we got to the National Assembly of Budget Documents for 2018 and 2019, of course I went to look at the figures and found out now that we are talking about 2018 that there is 480 thousand 427 missing in the budget this year. You will say, “But this is mere change” – see, we Pomurci are modest, but we will not allow anyone to afford it so that the laws that are adopted here are not respected. It's really a small thing, once again, we're modest, the gloomy economy has absorption skills, so far no one could tell where to look for this money. Some say, "Yes, yes, it is, it will." I believe you don't have any black funds, at least I hope you don't, but I'm asking you to support this amendment, because otherwise it's a slap to all of us who supported the Pomurska region Development Support Act a few months ago. I just don't understand why there's no care on the government's side, the guardian of the law to provide sufficient funds. Does anyone in the coalition have any answers? I just can't find, I'm adding these numbers, and I find that there's not enough money for next year, so at 480 thousand 427. That's why our amendment is and I'm asking for your support.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm guessing yes. Mrs. Maria Bachič, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u124	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your word. I'm joining my colleague, Joseph Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u125	Mrs Bachič, I'm sorry, you don't have any more time. We just found out. If you want to finish in a second.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u126	I hope and wish that this pomor law of ours will finally see the light of the world, that we will get the money we need so badly, and that we Members will not always be in a worse position when the parliamentary groups look at us in an ugly way as we return to the pomur law. We've been talking for three years, and I'm asking you to accept this.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u127	Thank you very much, Mrs. Bachich. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Effective Marketing and Promotion of Slovenia and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budget user 2330 Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food and to the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme for rural development and the amendment of the NSI Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budgetary user 2431 The Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Infrastructure and to discuss the amendments tabled in this budget user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Management and current maintenance of state roads and the 4 amendments of the New Slovenia Group. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the Sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads and the 3 amendments of the Group of Non-Aligned Members, the 9 amendments of the SDS Group of Ambassadors and the amendments of the NSI Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am also putting into discussion the sub-programme Maintenance of public railway infrastructure and the amendment of the NSI Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budget user 2550 of the Ministry of Environment and Space and to the debate on the amendments tabled, and I am giving to the budgetary user the sub-programme Water Management and the amendment of the NSI Group. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme on the conservation of biodiversity and the protection of natural values and the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am also putting into discussion the sub-programme Housing activity and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budget user 2611 Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities and to the debate on the amendments tabled in this budget user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Monetary Social Assistance and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am also putting into discussion the sub-programme Programme and assistance in the family and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budget user 2613 of the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for work and to discuss the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting to the debate a sub-programme on Labour Management and Control and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budgetary user 3330 of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport and to the debate on the amendments tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Support for Research Infrastructure and the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion a sub-programme for supporting activities in the field of education and sport, as well as the amendment of the Levica Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am also putting into discussion the sub-programme Implementation of primary school programmes and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budgetary user 3340 of the Ministry of Culture and to the debate on the amendments tabled in this budget user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Protection of Cultural Heritage, the archival and library activities and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the Group of New Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. The vote on the amendments and on the specific part of the draft amending budget will be held on Thursday 16 November in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 35th agenda or at 9 a.m. We are moving on to the consideration of the Development Programme Plan. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. The vote on the Development Programme Plan will be held in accordance with the timing of the meeting in the framework of the Thursday 16 votes. 11. In the context of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 35th agenda or at 9 a.m. This concludes the third item of the agenda. We are moving on to the continuation of the 4th item of the agenda, this is an updated draft budget for the Republic of Slovenia for 2019. We are moving on to a debate on the supplementary draft budget. We will discuss individual parts of the supplementary draft budget and the amendments tabled. As an individual part, the general part, the specific part and the Development Programme Plan shall be considered. We are moving on to the consideration of the general part of the 2019 Supplemental Draft Budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? I'm guessing yes. Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Vice President. Quite like the previous points or previous points, i.e. for changes to the 2018 budget, we can also make it clear that Levica does not support the 2019 budget, as we have already announced in the position. In fact, the reasons are very similar to those we unfortunately repeat every year when we deal with budgets. One is that the taxes from which the budget is fed are significantly more burdensome for the average population of Slovenia than, say, on the other hand, the owners of capital, the assets of greater value and also those who are recipients of the highest incomes. Instead of giving money back to the people in order to provide them with quality health care, real social security and also the conditions for the development of society across the board, the State gives priority to various commitments to NATO, to the European Union, and so on, red tape, protocol and so on. Let me give you just two cases that clearly confirm this. It's probably already been mentioned, but it's okay. If you walk around the clinical centre in Ljubljana, you will see that patients with the most difficult conditions are being treated in buildings that are 100 years old or older, so some are even from the time of Austro-Hungarian times, but the government will significantly reduce investment in hospitals in the coming years. It's some absurd thing to call it out of budget documents every time. On the other hand, it will only spend more than €21 million in the next two years to rebuild the protocol facilities in Brdo pri Kranj. In short, we can read these lines or these items in the budget as "whom, in fact, cares about the poor situation of the patients here and now, those who unfortunately need to be treated for their conditions and, of course, to be eliminated also, it is important to take care of the facilities in which we will host foreign policies, foreign bureaucrats when Slovenia presides over the European Union in 2021." And this is absurd when we say that this budget is not a budget for people, but rather a budget for something else. The second case is health care. Parliament adopted a so-called intervention law in the previous session, which will remedy 80% of past hospital losses, but due to insufficient resources, the largest hospitals will continue to operate negatively, so that any serious improvement in the health care situation can be dreamed of and nothing else. The problem is not limited to health institutions alone; it is the same in the homes for the elderly and other social institutions that care for those of our society who are the most vulnerable. In such circumstances, any normal government would immediately start modernising health and social protection, but not this government. Instead, by 2025, the government would prefer to spend €1.2 billion to meet the so-called goals of NATO for Slovenia, i.e. between the lines or otherwise referred to as weapons, weapons, old iron and so on. Secondly, every time we deal with the budget, the coalition Members and Ministers like to say how nice it would be to hear all the different wishes, especially those that we advocate in Levica, so more social rights and more development, but not enough money, unfortunately. But that's simply not true, it's simply a delusion. Slovenia has large reserves, both on the revenue side and on the expenditure side. On the income side, these reserves are in fairer taxation of capital, high income and high-value assets. On the expenditure side, however, we could gain enormously if the welfare of people were to give priority to various harmful commitments, as I have already mentioned, to foreign power centers. This calculation is very simple, it's probably primarily about priorities, whether we put people ahead of capital and foreign power centers or not. This government obviously cares more about NATO, the European Union and what is similar to its own people. In Levica, we have already put forward concrete proposals for an increase in the income of the state, municipalities, including both social registers. There is nothing populist about these proposals, all based on some objective facts. The first objective fact is that Slovenia collects significantly less resources with taxes and contributions than, say, neighbouring Austria. Our public revenues were only 37% of GDP last year, while in Austria this share was 44%. This is therefore a big difference, which ultimately has a major impact on the well-being of people and, last but not least, on the development of the country itself. If we are to reduce this difference, we must therefore urgently increase public revenues. And if we want to increase public income in a fair way, we need to look at where these reserves are. And reserves are, as we say, taxation of high incomes, capital and property of great value. This is demonstrated by the comparison with other European countries. Some EU members already collect almost 30% of all taxes on capital. 30 %. Slovenia only collects good 10% of all taxes with capital taxes. This fact places us in the last place among the Member States of the European Union, but nevertheless the coalition has slightly rejected our proposals, particularly those with which we have tried to improve exactly the tax policy in this country, so that the company's profit tax would be raised at least on the European average if we were not already a little more ambitious and went even higher. The additional reserve is the fair taxation of property of high value. Last month's study of Umarje's co-worker showed how large the wealth inequality in Slovenia is, 10% of the richest owns more than 47% of all assets. So, 10% of people in Slovenia own almost half of all the property that we have and the poorest 20 percent. Here we see how big this difference and inequality in property is, we could even say that for those 10% of Slovenia's richest, we are tax oasis because we are on the tail of the European Union after taxes on property. In short, it is worth being in this 10% in Slovenia because taxes are very low for these. If we look at other members of the European Union, we only collect 0.6% of GDP on assets. If we look at France, this percentage is already 4.5. These are the real reserves I'm talking about, those real reserves that remain untapped because the political class simply does not want to cut into the interests of capital owners and those who have the highest assets. Finally, the sad fact is that the consequences of such a policy or, if you want, the consequences of such a policy are felt in fact by all citizens and citizens, especially those at the bottom or at the edge of society. Reserves are not only on the revenue side, as I said before, they can also be on the expenditure side, and the reason that these reserves remain unused is very similar. Instead of favouring the welfare of the population and the development of society, the interests of capital and the interests of foreign power centres have priority. I mentioned earlier that in the next two years the government will only spend €21 million on the restoration of protocol facilities in Brdo pri Kranj, although the EU Presidency will not start until July 2021, even though only 10 years ago a completely new facility was built. So we have 21 million euros that we could spend on building new homes for the elderly, we could spend them on much more useful and more important things for society. Second example, the government intends to spend €1.2 billion by 2025 to meet NATO's so-called goals for Slovenia. 1.2 billion euros in eight years means that an average of 150 million euros per year is to be spent on arms and equipment. 150 million. In comparison, the government will spend only EUR 26 million for all investments in public hospitals in 2018, almost six times less. And this has nothing to do with the prosperity of Slovenia, to the greater prosperity of the military industry, so in Levica we are persistently opposed to such a servile attitude towards these commitments by NATO and insist that the needs of people should be far ahead of the needs that we have accepted by entering this relationship and the needs of exporting wars to foreign countries. A fraction of these commitments to NATO is also the acquisition of 56 new so-called patriots, to which we are expected to spend about 200 million euros. That's exactly what we lack in capital to build the second track of the Divača-Koper line, for example. The 200 million missing capital is an excuse for the Government of Hungary, as a foreign investor, to allow the second-tier ownership structure and also to offer tied transactions to the detriment of Luka Koper. If it were a defence technique and if Slovenia were to be militarily threatened, a person would still understand it with compressed teeth, but in the current situation we can only understand it as a deliberate sabotage of development or as an excuse for direct or indirect privatisation of strategic infrastructure. We have also all the time warned how, in the case of the construction of the second track, something really smells, how this financial structure is unfounded, especially the construction of the work of strategic infrastructure in cooperation with another country. We have also insisted all the time that there are opportunities for us to build this ourselves, to finance at least 200 million over a certain number of years, this item 200 million to meet commitments to NATO is a clear answer where we could find it, although there are, of course, other mechanisms or other reserves. There's still a whole bunch of these cases, and I could count them long into the night, but that's not necessary, because actually the statistics tell us enough. Slovenia comparatively spends more than Austria for a repressive apparatus, and this is one of the reasons why health and social care is less for us every year. No one will convince me that Slovenia is safer than Austria or that our people need less social states than our neighbours. However, I do know that despite its membership in the context of NATO, Slovenia can autonomously decide on its budget. In the end, Iceland, which does not have an army at all, and most of the other members also spend less than 2% of GDP on meeting these commitments. We have no illusions in Levica that the Government will deviate from its policy, but I have yet to end with another aspect of this budget, which is extremely unfair and extremely antisocial, these are the items that finance social assistance, a security allowance and compensation for the unemployed. These are items that depend on about 100,000 of our population — long-term unemployed, poor, pensioners, holiday workers and employees with the lowest wages. On 27 October, the Ministry of Labour published a calculation of the minimum cost of living for 2016. The minimum cost of living for a single person was on average EUR 613 per month, which is more than the minimum wage. This is twice the current amount of social assistance, unemployment benefits or the lowest pension. Experts have also calculated that a single resident who gave up his expenses for recreation, cultural activities, housing insurance, needed about €442 to survive. Nevertheless, the Ministry of Labour is proposing a new amount of social assistance that will cover only 75% of this minimum, i.e. if we are looking at only a bare survival. The Ministry essentially proposes that the poorest people in Slovenia continue to receive only 75% of social assistance. The ministry or this government, if you want, says that someone can survive with 75% of what is minimum. It's clearly this social policy. The excuse is that there is too little difference to minimum wage. Let us leave aside that the Ministry has never actually proved this difficulty. Let's say the difference is really too small, but we can't solve this problem with social benefits that don't cover a physical minimum, and with a minimum wage that is below the threshold of absolute poverty. At the same time, the only solution in such a situation is to raise the minimum wage and also the social benefits to a human level to such a level that will enable people to live with dignity. This level does not allow and does not foresee this budget. And no, I don't think that's any more populism. In 2010, during the worst crisis since World War II, the minimum wage literally increased by EUR 137 per night, social assistance increased by EUR 30 as of 2012, now we have already had a fourth year of economic growth, compared to abroad we had 3.7 billion surpluses and so on – why not simply provide people with valuable social benefits and wages over the next two years? On the contrary, the budget provides for the freezing of children's allowances for upper middle class, a four-member family in which each of the parents earns two average wages, i.e. EUR 2 000 40 net, will receive a monthly subsidy of EUR 53. Such families may be in Slovenia for 2% or so. I ask you whether it would be wrong to take care of the decent social benefits, pensions and salaries of those who are in the worst of distress. In fact, the last example surrounds what we have in Levica with this budget and with all the budgets proposed by this government, so that there is too much work on unnecessary expenditure, too little work on fair tax policy to raise revenue in the budget. In doing so, it is the worst carried out by the people, namely, those who, because of such policies, should eventually count each cent, in order to complete the month, if at all possible, and those who should actually have the most of this budget. Under the line we can only say that this budget does not have people in mind, it does not have the people of this country in mind, through its lines we can see some other interests that do not refer to any of those that could be said to have been the key problems of this country in this recent period, beginning with health care, and in concluding a circle at the end of social policy in this country, which is in some way also the beginning of this circle. These are the essential problems that this budget has, and these are the essential reasons why we cannot support it in Levica in any way.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u129	Colleagues, colleagues, anyone else want to discuss this? Mr. Joseph Horvath, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the Ministry of Finance, dear colleagues and colleagues! Every time the new government sits in its premises in Gregorčič, I somehow expect what the new economic policy of the government will be, and so, in the case of the Cerara government, I also expected what the economic policy of Cerara's government will be. Of course, it was only when she really sat on Gregorčič because the formerly party brought by Dr Miro Cerar to Parliament had no economic programme, so it was not clear which direction Cerara's policy would go at all. Even now, these budgetary documents, which we have considered in these three years, cannot really determine what Cerara's economic policy is. You can't. I regret, too, to say in advance that I wish to step in here to defend the Ministry of Finance, which is the custodian of the budget on the government side, and on the other hand, the ministerial departments are the ones that should create everyone in their own policy area. In fact, I see here that the Ministry of Finance has actually become the Ministry of Accounting of the Republic of Slovenia. I'm sorry and I'm sorry, but that's how I see it. There are no movements that would actually show some new direction or a firm direction in the economic policy of this government. When we talk about the 2019 budget, of course when this government is gone, I can say that I also regret that it is not in line with the recommendations of the Fiscal Council. And I'm not going to be developing here for a long time now, because we had a long debate last week on the parent's working body, but the fact is that the budget structure is not good. I will commend the nominal surplus, but the structure, ladies and gentlemen, is not good. Once again, we can talk a long time about what this structure is, we know that we have to watch an economic cycle, and this economic cycle lasts for a certain period, a Bible period of 7 years, sometimes those 7 years are equal to 10 years or 15 years, but of course it can be less than 7 years. Here too, in view of our extremely bad experience in a time of severe economic crisis, the question is immediately generated whether we are ready, whether this policy is the right one, which will lay some solid foundation for the Slovenian economy, public finances for any future crisis – and I do not invite it, it is better to come once we are gone, not when we are no longer here, but when we are somewhere else in the world. But responsible politics must have it all before their eyes. We have practically not received answers to these questions even on the parent’s working body, perhaps today, but these numbers show that there are virtually no answers. I would like to be once set up by a country that will truly create an environment where everyone will be able to relax all their abilities. On the one hand, of course, I say that everyone is responsible for himself, for his family and so on, if an accident occurs, such or otherwise, the loss of a disability service, then the social state must be involved. But first, everyone is responsible for their own existence, for their fellow humans. That is why I would like an environment where everyone could really relax their entrepreneurial potentials, their intellectual potentials, and that we would not have what we all regret about people leaving us. And then they record fantastic careers at Stanford and other universities, and so on, advise the European Commission, and we reject them. I just don't get it. I am tired of this state economy, state health, state education and so on. The second is public that we don't fight. We, Nova Slovenija, personally advocate public health, public education. Publicly because there must be some control, if there is one euro from public money, from the budget to a school, there must be control to see what is going on there. However, it is necessary here, in this very segment where we are doing very badly, health care, education, in this particular segment, that we could engage and we need to engage more private resources in the future. Of course, public funds will also be involved there, but that is why control will also be exercised by the financier. Anyone who finances one euro in anything must have control over what happens to this euro. At the previous point, I admit that we are running out of time, so maybe some concrete projects or amendments. For this there will be time, but when I speak, now I will start with the constitution, I really repeat, when the Constitution has been amended and the right to drinking water has been enshrined in the Constitution – yes, I understand the Constitution is not an enforceable act, it is not a law, but – I expected, I truly expected that now that the budget documents come, President Cerar will first praise and say: “Look, we have changed the constitution and now we will actually provide each of the two million citizens of this country with drinking water because it is a matter of health.” [[…]] I am sorry that the ladies from the Ministry of Health have left, and I would ask them for information on why the most frequently diagnosed cancer has been diagnosed in Pomour. Some say that also because we do not have adequate drinking water. I was happy, and I was there when we launched the Pomurje water supply project in 2012. Then this project ran for a while, in system A we've done it pretty well and successfully, system B, this is the bitter part, and system C, this is Prlecia, it still needs 40 million, and when we're talking about budget documents, you just go look for these numbers first and of course you don't find them. These 40 million are to be found under items that you also do not find where money will be formed in accordance with the agreement for the development of the regions. But it's all in the air, it's all in the luft. In Europe, we have been talking about a single market, even a single digital market for quite some time, Europe has been promoting the construction of broadband networks, where suppliers, distributors have no commercial interest. According to the people I know in the ministries, we still need about 350 million euros to build a broadband network where the so-called grey shadows are. Last time you heard, on Sunday night, gentlemen from Gorička who said, "We can't make a phone call, we don't have a mobile signal, except through an Austrian operator." Yeah, well, then it's pretty slow. And the Austrian employer – well, thank God, because Europe is a single market, we have free movement of people and so on. But I don't know if anyone's involved in this government, but there's an army of people there, an army of people is in this entire state administration, a few tens of thousands, and at least one could watch what happens to people on the outskirts, on the edge of what happens to those who in Austria get an extremely favorable offer for a construction site, specifically in the Jennersdorf municipality. I have to open these things here because I feel that no one in the government is interested in this, and as a citizen, these are extremely important questions. I don't have that much trouble if someone works in Austria and lives here, is at home, spends here, is a resident, is here not least a taxpayer, but when they look at what offers there are for life – yes, then, look, young people are a big deal, and young people pack bags go. Not to say then what the demographic consequences are, who's going to process all these fields. “Field, who will love you?” we will probably have to repeat ourselves slowly here, or it is about time. And if I am already in the statistical region of Pomurje, from which I come, I reiterate that I simply cannot believe why there is not enough €840 000 in these budget documents for 2018 and 2019 for the implementation of the Pmurje Law. It's not much, but it's like it's a principle, like someone said, we're gonna fuck them up a little bit. I just don't understand. If it were 80 million and someone would say, we can't, we'll just give it 40, somehow try to understand. This is about change. But I will insist here, as long as I am here at seat number 90, in the back seat, I will insist that this mussel law will actually come true to all the euro. In particular, I am referring to that provision in the law, which provides for €33 million in law to promote competitiveness. I just don't understand. And when I talk to people in Pomurje who are there in the region in some way guardians of the law, and I say to them, "Listen, there are 840,000 euros missing from my calculations." They say to me: “How much?” “840 thousand.” “We already know where this was going.” That's amazing. Do we really have a parallel country? We're talking here, we've got endless hours of debate, and there's virtually nothing we can agree on. And if I'm on a deal, dear colleagues and colleagues from the coalition, I must say, I'm sorry you're very embarrassed. Very clumsy. We could agree, for example, that the leaders of the parliamentary groups would say, look, let's give the opposition four or five amendments, let's say a total of EUR 1 million. And you'd be the main jacks, as they call it. We'd be heroes. And of course we wouldn't have enough motivation to explain what is wrong with this budget and what should be and so on. My colleague Janko Weber was the leader of the Social Democrats Group in 2012, they were budgeted, the Social Democrats proposed, I think, 16 million for research and development, innovation and so on. At that time, we took a break in the coalition and agreed, together with my colleague Yank, to support this amendment of the Social Democrats. During the debate, during the plenary. Social Democrats said, okay, that's enough for us to support the budget. It is rare that the opposition party will also support the budget. If you say it's a bad practice, I say it's not. We all say, let's do it, let's do it, let's do it, let's do it, let's do it. We are simply warning, expressing our wishes and concerns and proposing what we should do to make it better. And we firmly believe what we say. If I continue with this topic, this 2012 SD amendment, research and innovation, and when I look at statistics, ladies and gentlemen, how much Slovenia is actually investing public money in R & D, I find that we are at the bottom of Europe. I am talking here exclusively about research and innovation development, which have its own application value, its usefulness in the economy. So I'm actually talking about the economy. Technological development, technological progress is terrible. Unbelievable! We don't know what traffic will be like in five years and so on and so forth. I don't have time to discuss all these matters, but see, also the European Union, this is what we have written in its documents, that there is undeniable evidence that the path to economic progress and competitiveness is strongly linked to increasing investment in research and innovation. If I project this slowly to the Member States, of course Slovenia, it is also clear that the differences between the European Union countries with the economic crisis have deepened. The process goes to the detriment of Slovenia, because the innovation system in Slovenia is a worrying failure both relative and absolute. The fact is that while the developed countries of Europe are increasingly paying attention to systematic and persistent investment in innovation systems and caring for effective structural changes, the second part of Europe, including Slovenia, is increasingly lagging behind and has little attention to it. The difference between one and the other in R & D is growing alarmingly. I don't want us to become, we become so-called "Lon Arbiters", forgive ugly Germanism, to actually sell us a living force, just some operations to make a man a robot on a liquid tape. I would like to sell knowledge that we are selling whole circuits for future electric cars that will have significantly less than 10 to 20 times less moving parts than conventional cars with internal combustion engines. These companies, which are very successful in the automotive industry, will suddenly have between ten and twenty times fewer products, but it will probably be necessary to produce a whole set in which a lot of knowledge will have to be incorporated. If I make only a comparison with Sweden, we invested 145 million euros in research and development last year, Sweden 4 billion 150 million. Of course you say right away, yes, Sweden is bigger. Yeah, of course it's bigger. And if I now do normalisation according to the number of inhabitants, Slovenia, if I invest as much as Sweden, should invest in R & D at the annual level of around 830 million! Not 146 million, but 830. Not to mention Austria, ladies and gentlemen, which literally exploded from investment in research and development. It is normal for Austria to suck up very good footage because it pays better because it motivates them. Austria, for example, invested in research and development last year, if I look at this graph, about 2.8 billion euros. We're 145 million. And calculate for yourself, given that Austria is about 4.3 times as much as they are investing on their heads, if I may say so. Their investment in research and development is constantly growing, and we are constantly falling. I don't know if anyone in the government is dealing with this. We don't even have a technology department anymore. We only have the technology written on the board, where it writes MGRT, t as technology. If I'm wrong, I'll have a replica anyway. In order not to burn all the time, I just want to say one more thing, once again, about the economy, about the development of innovation. With us — and this is said by experts who know something about it — I have obtained material and meetings with them — we perceive the total dispersion between science and the economy. It's a total mess. There is no systematic investment, no occasional instruments, no smart specialisation strategies, and so on, we could talk about this for a long time, the funds do not cover the whole development chain, the short-term effects are, the purpose is not to establish the foundations, the market is an innovation system. And what else do we record? We record the degradation of Slovenian science. Here is probably the answer to why so many good young experts are leaving. We've got a real exodus here. I don't even know if the government is recording, detecting these numbers, having this counter or not. If we look at older researchers, these are no longer competitive, medium researchers are apathetic and have no opportunity, no projects, no equipment, younger researchers split in half. I wonder where half of her is not in development. Infrastructure is collapsing, there are no structural improvements, deregulation, institutional financing, of course, the salary system and the legal status of organisations and researchers. But the worst thing is for sure what we don't really see is working in a negative direction. On 20 September 2015, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted the Slovenian Smart Specialisation Strategy, which you probably know, but I regret that we did not have any in-depth discussions on this topic here in the National Assembly. The President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, is 15. 6. 2015 at a conference called With you until the Smart Specialisation Strategy marked Smart Specialisation Strategy as one of the key government priorities. He stressed that the implementation of the Smart Specialisation Strategy will be a priority of the Government, beware of this, the priority of the Government, as I quote: "This is an implementation document of two key strategies, research and innovation and Slovenian industrial policies. This will finally set priorities so that it is clear where this country is headed. Something we've never had before." The end of the quote by Dr. Mir Cerar. Maybe that's where it is, maybe that's where it's going, tell me, dear colleagues and colleagues from the coalition, where, I'll be very happy. Because of this and other matters which I will not even mention, we in New Slovenia cannot support the 2019 budget or better, we will vote against.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u131	Colleagues, colleagues, anyone else want to discuss this? I'm guessing yes. Mr. Bell Lah, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Vice President. I would continue what my colleague said a little in other areas. For there is no way I can get rid of any feeling after I announced it shortly after this government's appearance, you have probably seen this, too, that, given the composition of this government, I do not expect this government to do much in this mandate, and I think I was right at the time. A lot of new people, new faces came from academic circles, from college, from different administrative units, from everywhere. I have once discussed in this direction that those who come from the economy should have, say, a different color in front of them, for example in green, that I will not say in blue, and those who have come from the public sector in red, that people who look at us listen, they will be able to tell us where they come from, and they will understand us. When I think about how we manage this country in this quarter of the century, I also told the President of the State on the committee that right over there in the hallway where we see the inscription of the 1990 Breakdown, that when I look at those pictures, I wonder if we justified the trust of the then plebiscite, the people who, by such a majority, decided for a single country. I have asked the President of the country this question because he has been present since the beginning in all possible functions and policies so far. If a survey were to be done, I think that with roughly the result they decided on plebiscite at the time, people would confirm that politics has been disappointing all this time. And even from this government, which is running out of time, this budget is already for the next government, one would expect at least in the Development Programme Plan, that there is a path that we will take, what needs to be done, that for those projects that are focused for the next few years, at least the projects are implemented, prepared, placed in the space that the next suit, when it comes, just wraps up the sleeves and begins to build. But that's less and less. The designers, who are from various ministries, are working less and less. This is how the congregations feel, and I have a feeling that this government has also been set up to somehow “keep track of the fluids” of these transitions, to keep the ATMs, to blur or redirect those who are investigating, who were shoveling money from banks, to somehow overlook those who were watching away when they were laundering money. Everything with this purpose and end up in the KPK, which wants to do something else, stands out at the second track, and then let's just change it. But he served the KPK when one government had to be thrown down, and he did what he had to do. We have a budget of about 10 billion, from this budget we give about a billion for social, about a billion, we have to get the pension fund to get all pensioners who get what they get, and, on the other hand, instead of improving the business environment for the economy, to prepare the business environment for foreign investors who would bring capital to Slovenia, to create new jobs, value added, thereby also paying contributions and taxes to all the cash registers, into the budget, we continue that policy from before I don't know how many years in the parliamentary group, including those of my previous and current ones, we warn as if we don't need new jobs, as if we are afraid of new capitalists who would fill our budget. All foreign investors who come, but only ask, go ahead because our communally equipped buildings are three times more expensive than in neighbouring countries, because the time for placing in space and obtaining the necessary permits is five times longer than in neighbouring countries. That's why we don't need the money. We need the will. It looks like we're keeping those mailboxes waiting for the chance that our economy will be poor enough to pick up our businesses back with the money that used to be in our banks, but time goes on. After ten years, there's no more what happened when they destroyed it. At the beginning of the crisis, we lost 80,000 jobs, and I think that, significantly more of those who went back to the former brother republics, which also did not pay our employers more, had to go back to their homes without pay, because these owners or owners emptied their companies' accounts and deposited that money abroad. So we have a situation, nothing better than a business environment than ten years ago. This government has done nothing in this mandate. The only bright point is the construction law, where at last we have made little provision for those 300,000 buildings built in Slovenia in violation of regulations to be at least partially legalized and municipalities to receive municipal contributions to the construction of municipal infrastructure and the state to the expense of usurpation, is the penalty. There was nothing else done. Operational programs. I remember back there in 2009, 2011 the then governments were full of the mouth of regional development, consistent regional development, a few of which we adopted for this purpose and the need was still in many, full of mouths. Suddenly, when this government passed — everything was quiet. And in this term. Harmonised regional development is no longer needed because everything is somehow centralised. For us here in the center it must be, and then, if there is anything, it is, if not, but they will somehow be gone. [[…]] We're talking about the circular economy. Something's heard, and now it's forgetting the circular economy, what it is, the circular economy. I mentioned it once today, and we said vehemently: "Deal water into the constitution! We have enough of this in our country, we are rich in water, let us write it in the constitution, everyone has the right to drinking water." Really? He has a right, but you didn't say anything at what price. About 300,000 Slovenians drink inadequate water. Does the state allow it? There are no more state funds or European funds for these projects. Something was still in the old financial perspective or cohesion projects were prepared in the previous perspective, they are now being implemented, and it is also due to the fact that some European cohesion money has come into this budget – at the expense of previous work in the previous mandate. Or, thanks to the ministry in this mandate for projects that have been prepared in previous mandates, they are now only being implemented, but not if the municipality and those representatives here in the National Assembly, which we supported, somehow had to force the Government's conclusions that these projects had even begun to be implemented, that in this financial perspective money was devoted to this. Before that, a colleague mentioned pomurski voivodeships A, B and C internal projects and lower, hydraulic improvements, dry-land water supply and another pile. 10 such projects, which were in this 205 million European money, I think about that much, but also state money and municipal money. However, that is not all, these are primary, secondary pipelines, and these pipelines still need to be joined by individual households, which will take so much and so much money to achieve these objectives that are required in these projects. What are we doing in the area of sewage treatment? The country has promised Europe that by a certain date, I think now 2023, all the wastewater has gone to the groundwater. What has moved in this area? Nothing. The operational programme setting out agglomerations is socially unacceptable. It takes a few billion dollars to build this thing, what we promised. Is there any money? It's not, not cohesion or state, it's all on municipal budgets and on users themselves. Waste management. The European directives adopted, the direction set, and we are just finishing or building objects that were in some way designed or designed 10 years ago, were then completely different. We have landfills for waste disposal of such capacity that 2030 we will have to dispose of the entire Balkans, Ljubljana for the whole of Slovenia and the rest for much more. But the policy is that nothing should be delayed, and we are going from Izola to Ljubljana, from Trebnje to Ljubljana, from New City to Ljubljana and back. Death tourism, instead of going. I would expect the responsible ministry or the competent ministry to have a team of experts with a vision, with a strategy and also an implementation plan for how municipalities or groups of municipalities should carry it out. It's nothing. You don't have a man to turn to. In whatever way the congregations agree, there are various interests of earnings and citizens are to pay. Municipal councillors confirm the programmes after the prices have been calculated, and we come to such prices that they are socially unacceptable. In my congregation, according to the current prices, which are lower than in many municipalities, there will be 120 euros for the four-member family for all three public economic services. Is this still socially acceptable? Once these projects are built, which are now being built in all three areas, this is likely to be even more costly. Prices are as high as in neighbouring Austria or Germany or even higher, by the fact that the standard there is several times higher than that of us, as well as the purchasing power of people. And we just insist. A lot needs to be done in various areas in order to catch up. On the one hand, we are talking about a new economy, a blockchain technology, and I don't know what else we can be a reference country because we have expertise, and on the other hand, we are acting like a banana republic. We do not handle those things or not properly, we are worse than the neighbouring former republics, Croatia, Serbia, Bosnia, Macedonia, they are more advanced. Let's not compare ourselves to the Czech Republic! How fast they're moving up there. We are overtaken by all the multi-urban states on the left and on the right, and we are only boasting that we are moving to move, rather than compare ourselves with those who are advancing significantly faster than we are. We used to laugh about the cars the Czechs used to take us on vacation, and now we can only admire them, and things turned out. They haven't caught up with us yet, but they're very close, and they're moving very fast. We boast of economic growth, but who created this economic growth? Has one condition in this mandate been improved from previous mandates that the economy has better conditions with us than three, four years ago? Not one, we've only increased taxes. And we wonder why foreigners pass by us, why ours run out, not just young ones, even those who are established. Those who have their products, which they sell richly or with great added value around the world, flee, and remain those who do business, as a colleague said. What else is Magna gonna do? What else is Revoz? Except for those suppliers, which are a bunch of ours, the state also finances their work. This remains for us, and we probably won't have it for long, because it is moving to lower Balkan countries where the labour force is still cheaper than we are. We have not done our job here, we have not done it, and I am not surprised to hear those economists say that they must move as fast as the European economy, with which they must compete for business, that the policy is 15 years behind the economy, that time has overtaken us. But we don't seem to hear it. At local levels, politicians or politicians only talk to politicians about what is necessary because they simply do not take us seriously, as if we were behind, that we no longer understand their language, the pace of development. It's the worst thing to do if we get run over by time. We will probably have to admit that young people need to be taken into account, listen to them, and, in some way, prepare them to go to the elections, and then go to politics to bring a new fresh wind and change what should have changed a long time ago. But sometimes I have a feeling that Slovenia does not realize that we are a single country, that we are masters of our own, but thinks that we are another former republic, as if we are expecting and need advice and command from somewhere else. I also have a feeling for some congregations that they are not aware that they are congregations, but they think they are local communities, that they are just wasting the money that the state gives for certain tasks. That's how I feel. Besides, I've said it a few times in the National Assembly, my old father, when I was like this. [[shows with gesture]] he said: “You know, the worst thing for us will be when the servant is Minister.” I think it's been a while now, and let's give it a little bit of an interest that those who are masters of home go into politics on their own to come to this temple of democracy and show that Slovenians can also be masters, not just servants.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u133	I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. Yeah. Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u134	Thank you so much for saying that. I didn't mean to call, but, buddy Lah, you encouraged me to do this a little bit. Now I don't know, I have to give you back the words you once addressed to me, and I feel like you fell off the moon. You're talking about all the investors running to get around Slovenia, but we're here to lay the foundation stones for new factories. And if everything is so wrong in Slovenia, if we are so unfriendly, then I don't understand all of these investors who have already started investments or who have shown their intention to start them yet. They're not small companies, they're internationally recognized companies. And you're saying that we're just being bypassed, that everything we've done has been taxed up. Do you think that's what attracted them then, or what? I just can't agree with what you're saying, and it would be a little weird if you didn't pick up after what you're saying. The fact is that Slovenia has recorded economic growth, that this economic growth has not fallen from the sky, that it is, of course, the result of policies, fiscal policies, consolidation of public finances, which have also resulted in increased credit ratings in Slovenia's houses, that it can start borrowing cheaper credit and so on, which has all been reflected in the business of the economy. Of course, economic growth has a great impact elsewhere, but let's not forget, Slovenia has one of the higher economic growth – how can we be so weak? Why don't we just have half a percent? Why is it estimated that it will be even higher if GDP growth is close to 5%, it is said that it will be above average in terms of growth in the EU? Because of all these policies and measures. I believe that you are not satisfied with the fact that you can encourage, I don't know anyone to come and start a new policy, but tell me what the alternative is. Will you achieve 8% growth? Nobody in Europe does. You know, it is important – and before that – that we must not keep our eyes closed – that we have economic growth, that it is among the highest in Europe and that this growth is as stable as everyone actually predicts. Of course, this must not be any excuse before we do not make any structural reform, as is expected of us, but when we talk about how bad it is in Slovenia, I feel that some have not been abroad. Even when we're talking about health care. You know, you can have medicine abroad, but everything is -- when you get there, they ask you first for money and after insurance. What we have is for someone's dream, you need to know that. As for these effects, including local policy, as you mentioned, I spoke to several lower mayors last time, everyone boasted that they had new jobs, new jobs, Trebnja, Mirna, in short, there are investments in this mandate. I don't know if it would really be like you just described it, it certainly wouldn't be. It is not right that you are now planting some pessimism where it is not necessary at all, the fact is that we must acknowledge that one big step has been taken in this mandate and that these efforts taken under this budget are such that any further step will be taken. I'm sure it's not just one, it's more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u135	Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I look forward to this debate. New Slovenia has never said that everything is bad, never told you that you have fallen off the moon, and don't melt it down for us, as they say. So I ask here for a revised vocabulary, my fellow Member. I don't know how much experience you have in the economy, but it doesn't matter. Other experiences are important. Today, economic growth can be attributed exclusively to a resourceful Slovenian entrepreneur, Slovenian economic operators, these are employees and so on. We go to Slovenia, 45 visits in recent years, mainly to family businesses, small entrepreneurs. The small economy, as you know, is 99% of the Slovenian economy and also of the European economy, and we are told by owners, directors, my biggest capital is people, these people have no right to buy me a yacht. These are words if I give some common denominator, many, believe me, many entrepreneurs, owners and so on. I argue – of course, I have no mechanisms to prove this numerically, but – if this government did not take some reckless solutions, such as raising VAT, the economy opposed, the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprises opposed, we could have even higher economic growth. That it is high, that it is record in Europe, but it is also logical, we had a abyss, I think we went there to minus 7, when New Slovenia was not in Parliament. Up to minus 7. Look at the curves, at the end of 2015, two years ago, we got to the GDP level, as we had at the end of 2008, which is before the crisis. [[advertising from the hall]] Not yet? Here, the expert says not yet. So, let's look at the curves, now that I think about it, I really don't have this data at my fingertips, but let's look at these curves. It's not your fault, but it's not your fault that New Slovenia said it wasn't because we weren't there. Someone else. But now to find the culprit – what are you going to do with him? Now we have to keep working. What do we miss, dear fellow Zorčič? We miss more decisive steps. At times, there may be risks involved. In fact, business decisions are always equipped with risks, if I may say so. Of course, I also read professional articles, why successful Slovenian startups go abroad. And I didn't make it up, read a messenger of digital technology, a former messenger, read a lot of other contributions and so on. I know you're reading, but of course the opposition has to point out this, because our heart is breaking when it comes to these phenomena, and I believe you, too. I have done this many times – I think even Dr Miroslav Cerar – said, it is good that the President boasts and praises the country, I hope that the economy for such economic growth, in the opposition, we ask, list your actions and tell how much of your government action has contributed to this structure of 4.4% economic growth, and say, yes, measure A has contributed 0.5 percentage points, measure B so much and so on. The government has machinery, you Members will not do this, order the government to calculate this, measurements, there are methodologies. After all, every law actually has financial consequences, which are a mandatory component of the law. We're coming into some new digital period, you know, sometimes I say I'm repeating myself like shit, who won't be digital, who won't be digital. That's not gonna happen. And, of course, I am concerned about many things concerning the information society and the information economy, as well as the management of state information technology. We have had serious problems here in the past – and even now, as experts in this area call me – and we have serious problems, for many we do not even know, some are supposed to be mature for criminal charges. In recent times, information technology and digitisation have received real increasing attention, including between us and the politicians who manage our society. Unfortunately, it is increasingly evident that this attention is focused only on media spins and very little content. I have also debated and commended this first government, the first government and the first coalition agreement, which has written the aims of the information society in its coalition agreement, but at the same time, do not resent it, at the same time it is becoming increasingly obvious that it has not meant it seriously. The carefreeness syndromes that are still one of the most important themes for our future and competitiveness are many. It is not enough to undertake information projects at the defence ministry, which we pay and do not use, EUR 5.2 million, we have a debacle in the insurance of communication systems in the police and between diplomats, we do not manage the development of an information system for the financial administration for EUR 23 million and an information system for the management of social transfers, as you remember, for EUR 10 million. In all of these cases, the Court of Auditors has identified major deficiencies in the management of information systems implementation projects or systems have simply not worked. Now it makes sense why I said some cases were ripe for criminal charges. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u137	Anybody else want to discuss this? Mrs. Vojka Shergan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u138	Thank you for your word. I would like to discuss in this direction, that the economy is on its own going into action and functioning and does not need a country. I cannot agree with this because I am coming from the economy. When I remember the crisis that took place, and if past governments were to take measures to mitigate this crisis, the economy would not go into such a great deal of trouble, nor would forgiveness be so great, since the country has not played its role in the past and has not created crisis mitigation agents in such a way as to benefit this economy, of course, this country has also collected so much more time after the crisis to other countries. Therefore, not to say how this is all unrelated, I agree that the economy is the one that pays taxes in the budget and so on, but if there is no such link, if the state does not work well that there are no mechanisms, then the economy cannot work. You also say you want more investment – because that is exactly what is happening now! What are greenfield investments? Now, in fact, the biggest investment this government has attracted to Slovenia. We now have investments here, such as Magna, Yaskawa, Sumitomo, are encouraging indicators for investment by domestic and foreign companies, according to the Association Manager. And that there is no real environment for the development of entrepreneurship, this cannot be true, because when you talk to entrepreneurs, even those who make investments say that we still have a very high-quality workforce, that we have good conditions to operate, and I don't know, because we also listen to the media to boast about it. If you are in the field with economists, I know that there are also problems, of course there are problems, I will not say that there are always, but in some ways it is practical that the country has gained economic independence and that this crisis is now somehow over, even the economy is easier, even for service activities. The service activity is particularly dependent on the fact that certain investments in the country are being started and then service activities can also be strengthened and operated. So I think that you are overreacting with these negative indications that you have, as well as foreign investments themselves, will bring a lot of jobs, in fact we will have to talk more about how we will encourage people to be employed, those who have problems with it, because soon there will be no more labour to be able to employ. And the last time we had one meeting exactly in Posavje, it was very exposed, how else to activate people in the employment office, to train them to have competences to be able to work. So we have to skip this crisis once in our talks in Parliament and somehow get on with other matters. You say that for entrepreneurship is bad, look, for all the investments that are happening in some way, there are still benefits, both for innovation and for purchasing machines and equipment, and the incentives they still have at the Employment Institute for certain groups of people, they still benefit from these companies and these are some of the advantages. Of course, we cannot change overnight that the taxation of personal income is slightly higher than the taxation of capital, but this is the story of the real estate law of taxation and, in general, some tax restructuring. I think we should send a positive message, no matter what. We are considering the 2019 budget, I think we need to be optimistic and also tell people about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u139	Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u140	Thank you very much, President. I know you'd rather look at the position than the opposition.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u141	No, actually, it kind of looks nice to me, if once the position is once the opposition, the real dialogue seems.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u142	Good. Thank you. But I'm gonna be a little more specific this time. In Slovakia, there are thousands of €340 contributions online and 730. Are we competitive? Does a foreign investor ask himself how much a worker will cost before investing? He's probably asking. Because you were talking to Magna, Yaskawa. The MPs were in Maribor, there was enough space for Magno in the Tenz in the business zone, there was only a square meter of 80 euros and investors decided, we'll be here. And the country has adopted the lex Magna Act, which threatened the owners that if they do not sell 10 euros, they will relax them. The Maribor mayor told the committee that the market prices for buildings in Maribor are €60. Tell me if it's fair that only for one location the state threatens with law. I would not say that the state accepts the VAT, that it is of national importance and it drives, no, it is a congregation, the OPN had to accept. The country has given 10 million municipalities to purchase land or municipal equipment – which municipality in Slovenia has received extraordinary state money for municipal equipment of an industrial zone for any investor? Not yet! Mr Luka Ivanič said on the committee, when we discussed spatial legislation, that the OPN adoption procedure for Magna took place by law and was adopted within six months, and for the others, it is a period of four to eight years. Why? Because there was an interest in the back. Yaskawa went to Kočevje — whose land? It's municipal. Can a commoner first buy land at the value of actual use, municipal equipment, and then sell it, honestly, on the basis of the cost spent on municipal equipment and the cost of land to an investor who will bring, I don't know, so much capital, to create so many new jobs? He can't! Why not? Because our legislation protects speculators who previously bought land and when it's converted into a building, they have 20 times the profits. Why don't we change that? Why is this different in neighbouring countries? Why is it that in neighboring Austria, the congregation buys land, changes its dedicated use, utilities, and then sells the congregation? Who sells communally equipped building plots? Not ordinary. Like Kočevje, because she once received from a country or from a fund under conditions when the building land was owned, and now she was able to offer at a low price to an investor, otherwise everywhere – except, I think, Command, where the price is, I don't know, 100 or more euros – sell land owners who are communally equipped with municipal money. We're different here. In addition to Mr Zorčič – SPIRIT, the Ministry of the Economy has made an analysis and I sent an analysis to your fellow Member when I discussed it, SPIRIT has done an analysis of the competitiveness of our zones or municipally equipped building sites with neighbouring countries and the conditions that others have. We have an extremely geographical position for the development of logistics, we are at the intersection of X. and V. corridors, the interest is very great. How many logistics centres do we have in Slovenia? Nothing. How many do you think Hungary has? How many jobs in these? They're all driving through Slovenia. How much do we give to foreign investors in Slovenia for new jobs? Here I asked the minister a question, she said, "I don't have any money, not even for public workers." Hungary from 4 to 8 000 euros. We have a case where investors have gone past us to Romania due to three conditions, they quickly get a building permit, and the state is subsidising their new jobs and the municipally equipped plot is much cheaper. Those three things, they told us directly. That's why they pass. And what did we do at that time? We didn't do anything. Quite specific things that we could and we warned, but why not, you ask yourself.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u143	Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Just a few more seconds. Collegiate Soldiers, best managers, best entrepreneurs tell us: "Politicians, let us work! Create a stable environment and leave us alone." I'm never a negativist, I've always said, "Now is the time, now we're flying, now we're blooming, now let's make reforms!" Indeed, some 5, 6 foreign investments, although we are at the bottom of Europe on foreign investment, have brought thanks to God some 100 jobs. Book Ormož, Carrera, minus 250 jobs. Keep your books. Politics, the state must not interfere with the economy. Look at Aha Mura, we put 6 million in there and we lost it. Those two, gentlemen, were more clever than the rest of them. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u145	Again, I ask whether anyone else wants to discuss or end the general part of the supplementary draft budget. Mr. Uroš Prikl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u146	Thank you very much. But this time, I'm going to be really short as opposed to my usual performances, even though I have a relatively long time. When I listened to this debate, to the left, to the right, one really gets the feeling when the opposition listens to it, so to the first ball that it completely sucks this budget, that at one point it's not worth supporting. And I'm listening, at all, to my colleague Shergan about this budget, honey and milk are leaking. I have one specific point of view here, I am, by nature, critical, and I will not absolutely agree with the Military that everything is ideal, but, of course, as a coalition Member, I am closer to her opinion than a colleague from the opposition, which, of course, is normal, but you know, every budget is finally a compromise. God help us, but we don't have 20 billion to distribute, and there's probably someone there who might have an extra wish. Joseph, remember what it was like when Nova Slovenije was in the coalition, I was not in this place as a member of Desus, but I was in another duty, and I am sure, Joseph, that you as a coalition Member would wish for something else, and if not, I would have wanted an extra euro in Prekmurje to have some road asphalted and some sidewalk made. [[advertising from the hall]] Now it is not a debate or a polarization with you, I would also like to see an additional euro coming to Maribor or its surroundings or northeast Slovenia, if you would like. Maribor is the one who paid the highest price for this transition and crisis, economic, financial, whatever. However, I think that this budget is so positive in the final stage, so ambitious that, as it is called, it will rightly address all those needs in the field of social policy, we have said enough about pension policy or pension policy, and that it will also be ambitious enough in the field of the economy, that those real incentives will be, and that the economy, as it is often called, will be able to get enough oxygen and will be able to drive some progress. If we look very briefly at some more numbers. If there is anything positive here, it is that in the period since this government, this coalition has taken over governance of the country, for the first time, that the balance of the state budget has been positive, that 50 million plus, at the beginning of when this coalition took over, was the country at 1.2 billion minus, that more money is earmarked for security in the broadest sense of the word, development, science, and more money in the field of infrastructure. All of this is commendable. Not to mention health care, hoping to go for the right purpose, this money, which is intended for the direct budgetary user of the Ministry of Health. It is also commendable that interest rates reduce the funds needed, which is of course as positive as possible, but it was very negative that the country, when the crisis occurred, knew where, owed at abnormally high interest rates and suffered some transfer to public health institutions, social institutions and other public institutions. At the conclusion of one appeal to the Government, especially to the Ministry of Public Administration, as well as to the other stakeholders, please provide guidance, as much as possible, so that the municipalities, the local communities, will receive as much as they will receive. I will, of course, vote in favour of amending both budgets or amending them for 2018 and 2019. The municipalities will get what is written and agreed here, but let them relieve them in the field of what they now have to do many times after stupidity, many times these are administrative works, obstacles, and let us relieve them there there will be no such desire and need for some strong additional resources. Of course, the municipalities would like more money, and the best travel to this budget would also be to have local communities agree with it, but they agree for the above reasons, because sometimes we really choke them for nothing. Let's make some more effort here, and I believe that at the end of the day some positive valence will not be left behind. So long, I hope I haven't been too long. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u147	Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Jean Mahnič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u148	Thank you for your word, President. I also regret to see in this budget that this is not what the previous point was about, nor is it about the commitments made by the Government itself, but above all the budget, if I focus only on the defence part, contrary to what the Government says, and above all, the Minister of Defence, Mrs Andreja Katič, already has a full mandate. This government is the one that has adopted the Central Defence Programme of the Republic of Slovenia, where the deadlines are clearly set and where there is a clear definition of the progress of the construction of the Central Battalion Battle Group, which is to be completed by 2022, some final purchases are foreseen by 2020, by then they should have all the equipment and by 2022 the first in use and the second 2025. Even though we had already warned at that time that the documents that have three different years for the same thing are being adopted, yet 30 million euros in 2018 is no longer what we expected, is not what would follow the commitments made by the previous government, and so is that government. Once again, in 2019, unless the next year makes a difference, with the changes, we will rotate around 1% of the gross social product for the defence budget, if GDP continues to rise, and we will devote 30 million euros annually to defence, each year more, we will still be around 1%. I know that the finance minister, who is probably not going to be in this position at the time, does not care if she will, but probably Dr. Miro Cerar will never again be Prime Minister and he will not have to answer and deposit accounts when he no longer goes to the meeting of the Presidents of the governments and states of NATO, where we can say at least those who attend the parliamentary assemblies of the union, then that we always look down, when they show us a table of how the countries devote the budget, when, above all, the English always announce when the responsibility of the countries that always sign or sign one and the same commitments when they come home, and the work is completely different. If this meeting took place last year in some way that the ministers were here, that when a Member spoke, about what the issue was being covered, the ministers came to the hall – at least I know when I called last year, only that I turned on the microphone, that's where Andreja Katič was already running towards this bench, she didn't try so hard today, because I have a few questions that I would like to ask her. I know that neither the secretary of state nor the minister can know everything, you know how far it goes, but they can't tell me how much money they'll have, because they can't know about every ministry. Not even the most basic things will happen that we have committed ourselves to, and unfortunately we are witnessing some disintegration of the defence system under the rule of Mir Cerar. As far as finance is concerned, here the biggest responsibility lies with the Modern Centre Party, has a prime minister and has a finance minister who, although he received numerous warnings both in this house and abroad and at some lunches with some diplomats, has been revved at what will be to me what the Slovenian army will be like. However, it is, of course, the responsibility of the Minister of Defence or, in particular, the Social Democrats, who have been leading this ministry together for almost seven years now since 2008. We are far from all the policies that we have adopted in the National Assembly, which the Government has also adopted and which Parliament has not even been affected by, because it is only informed or debated about, but cannot be endorsed or rejected. We look incredible, of course, in accordance with our Russian-speaking foreign policy. What do the allies think about us? What do the Americans think of us? We know, sir, who promised a thousand euros in pension – before Mr. Pikl was not in there – this was said, I think that at the end of September 2008 at one of the 24h meetings, I went to check, because you said when Erjavec said that there would be a thousand euros in pension, then I could also bring you the article, in short, this gentleman, not once since he was in this position, he has not been invited to the United States of America, he prefers to go to Moscow. It is also rewarded in the budget with additional money for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and, as I said earlier, such a response to implementation or possible support, except for the flickering of the frame, has also led to the absence of any other concrete issues. We will experience another blemish when we fail to fulfil the commitments we made to NATO in 2022 that we will have the first battalion fighting group and in 2025 the second, because I am really interested in where you will get one billion euros for defence, specifically for the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces for these purchases by 2025. We need, like I said, 50 vehicles, next year we're going to buy 7, and in 2019 we're going to buy 7, these were the words of the Minister of Defence, but the problem is that it won't be a problem for you anymore, but it's going to be the answer, and it's going to be the one who's going to be the one who's going to come after you. In short, the unserious defence policy, the shame that you have not been able in three and a half years to adopt a law, some sustainable development programmes, what the Minister has consistently said to need, some law, coordinated between the Ministry of Finance and between the Ministry of Defence, which would bring about some constant and regular financing of the Slovenian Army, what was adopted in 2007, when the Slovenian Army received some ongoing funding, which also enabled it to purchase, then came the crisis, Minister Ljubica Jelusic and the current Supreme Commander of the Defence Forces, who has done the worst damage to the army, and today unfortunately commands it. But, well, it was on Sunday in some way an obvious reward for what he did to this army in return, but the citizens evaluate it as they estimate. However, it is a fact that we are increasingly going against what has always been the wish of the Social Democrats that Slovenia will no longer have such an army as is recorded in the documents, that is to say, some 8 000 500 members of the permanent composition, but 5,000 members of the permanent composition. But we know we can't help each other with an army like this. This has already been shown in 2015 and 2016, when the army, with the help of the police, has barely managed the migration crisis, by calling our members and members on missions, because of the fact that we have been running out of personnel – 200 additional soldiers from the Slovenian Army have gone since then. With such budgets and the better economic situation in Slovenia, especially in other neighbouring countries, Austria, we will still have soldiers and soldiers leaving and we will not be able to keep them, not with such a budget, nor with such a law as is now being enacted, the Defence Act and the Service Law in the Slovenian Army. Of course, the responsibility is yours, because no one is responsible, and it will not be yours at the end, but as I have - and I will conclude with this - at the beginning of the consideration of the previous budget, the 2018 budget, if you were to stand up for the Slovenians as much as you are for the Arabs, as we have seen today, this budget in Parliament would probably be approved unanimously.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u149	Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. The vote on the general part of the supplementary draft budget will take place on Thursday 16th, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. 11. 2017, in the context of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 35th agenda or at 9 a.m. We are moving on to the consideration of the specific part of the 2019 Supplemental Draft Budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to the debate on the amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 11. 2017. We are moving on to budget user 1318 Advocate of the principle of equality and debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme to eliminate and prevent human rights violations and the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving to the budget user 1611 of the Ministry of Finance and the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Payment of Rights and the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving to the budget user 1912 of the Management Board of the Republic of Slovenia for Protection and Rescue and the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme the operation of the system for protection, rescue and assistance and the amendment of the SDS Group. Mr. Jean Mahnič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u150	Thank you, Mr. President. We have just witnessed the catastrophic floods of October 2014, which have affected quite a few parts of Slovenia. Even though natural disasters never rest, something is common to these natural disasters, these are those who come to help, those who risk their lives to save property and people. And what do politicians have in common? That after everything's over, they come to these people, shake hands with them, and take pictures. That's what this government does to firefighters. What the firefighters think of this government, we saw in the protests. The Government of Mir Cerar does not want to listen to firefighters, of course this is only a segment of professional firefighters, not to mention the state of voluntary firefighters. Only free time spent by members and members of the Firefighters Association of Slovenia can be said to be operational firefighters in some way, we can thank that intervention in the event of natural and other accidents is quick, effective and professional. Instead of just praising the firefighters, instead of going to the field and taking pictures with them, we can, ladies and gentlemen, today or on Thursday when the votes are made, do something concrete, and this is to devote extra money to the firefighters, specifically to spend extra money on firepower. I believe you're all well-intentioned. The funds allocated to the budget under this item are not sufficient, so we propose a minimum increase in resources to at least show some goodwill to give recognition to the firefighters if not to the other. Similarly in other areas, I am not talking about an amendment that we have also tabled for sport and sports infrastructure. Unfortunately, even here we do not follow what we say, what we do all the time, we write on twitters and facebooks, when we congratulate athletes, some are very brave and go to the Congress Market, congratulations to athletes, even though they know they will be whistled, of course I am talking about the Minister of Education. If she really meant it at the time, then she'd suggest a raise on these items. And if Minister Andreja Katič had taken seriously the idea that this system of protection and rescue should be strengthened, today we would have a higher number on the supply line for firefighters and firefighters. Our amendment is aimed at strengthening the volunteer system to enable firefighters and firefighters to purchase new equipment. This is not only about the equipment that they are dealing with natural and other disasters, but also about their personal equipment that they need to be safe when they rescue others.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u151	Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving to the budget user 2130 of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology and the debate on the amendments tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Support for technological development projects and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Local Development Infrastructure and the amendment of the SDS Group and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am also putting into discussion the sub-programme Effective Marketing and Promotion of Slovenia and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving to the budget user 2330 of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food and the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme for Rural Development and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving to the budgetary user 2431 The Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Infrastructure and the debate on the amendments tabled in this budget user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Management and current maintenance of state roads and the 4 amendments of the New Slovenia Group. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting into discussion the Sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads and the 6 amendments of the SDS Group and the 2 amendments of the New Slovenia Group. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am also putting into discussion the sub-programme Maintenance of public railway infrastructure and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving to the budget user 2550 of the Ministry of Environment and Space and the debate on the amendments tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Water Management and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme on the conservation of biodiversity and the protection of natural values and the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am also putting into discussion the sub-programme Housing activity and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. The word is from Dr. Franz Duck, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u152	Thank you for your word. If we're working till 10:00, let's do it by 10:00. Our amendment, I have already explained in the general debate, addresses a problem that no government has taken seriously in twenty-five years of history. We had, maybe colleague Mahnic doesn't even remember, because he was probably in diapers at the time, and I happen to see him here in front of me, the Jezbinski law, and then with that – I don't know what, we've saved the housing policy forever, amen. Of course, we didn't save her. We haven't saved many others. Now I came from Brda to Kranj, where we awarded the award to the best craftsman, this is a gentleman who works very beautiful turbines for small hydroelectric plants, but this would be some other amendment. Why is that important? You know, on Monday, I asked Mr Cerar about how he somehow got out that we had these pilot projects, those pilot projects, some kind of resort that no one was dealing with, probably because most politicians have a housing issue solved. Or if you were from the right quotas, as you say, they conveniently solved your credit issues. If you may have been from the academic oligarchy, you also had a supplement to prepare for. Or if you were connected, there was some sort of highway, and, I don't know, half a pears came to your house. These are all real events. You could talk about people here, and then someone would want to take my immunity away from me, and again, someone would threaten me on the phone to kill me. Most citizens and citizens did not have this happiness, did not win the lottery, and the fact is, you know, in my profession there is an expression that can be heard in the name of the red Danube. What's Red Vienna? The Red Danube is that Slovenian Social Democrats are light years from when during the two world wars of the day social democracy in Vienna launched a programme to improve living conditions for employment. Of those times is one of the most famous buildings – the Slovenian right hand will not be happy – which hears the name Karl Marx Hof. I always take my students there, not because of Karl Marx, but because of this construction. You also have something like this in Ljubljana, even in Maribor we have the Vurnik Colony, even before the Railway Colony, we also have the Hutter Colony, with which some people have been able to solve housing issues more easily. Even in the way that they did not get so caught up in their income, because it was adopted and it was roughly normal to put up with up to 30% of your income to solve the housing issue. Where are we from? As soon as the Jasbinski’s law was implemented — because I have time and by ten we have a agenda today — I will take the time — some people warned that this story would not come out. Nor will it be possible to do so because by then many people who had become owners of apartments were unable to maintain these apartments. Then we had a crisis. People who are serious about this will tell you, look, we have somehow 20% of the population in Slovenia can somehow solve their housing issue, and this is how they already suffer their quality of life, we have 40% of the owners of apartments that roughly maintain apartments in the ranking, where they are, that means that every now and then, every once in a while, there is a change in the pipe, according to the local word, of which to grind the floor is already running out, and 40% of the people who absolutely can't do it anymore. And then we get to, I don't know, the situation of operations. At the same time, we have no serious policies for people under 40 years of age, no one will convince me that we have them, we don't have them. Then we have some kind of square circle that should be grabbed and thought in particular through the quality of life and macroeconomic policy, because in this society and country we literally give too much money to what I call the concrete mafia. At the same time, we have great architects, but too much architecture we have basically bad. Anyone who is particularly in this boom building that was up to the crisis – most of this building fund is relatively poorly built. We have a problem with this, too, that we have a huge old housing fund to rebuild. But of course, then there's an irresponsible policy, three-quarters of the spread of the Eco Fund without pennies. Restoring a housing fund is not about putting a block in a styrofoam or in a glass wool or a little facade up there, and then those who do it will do it so that you won't be able to do it if the blind breaks, the blinds change, the renewal is something else. Restoration means that if Ljubo were here or someone else from the construction profession, the reconstruction of entire infrastructure lines. These are known facts, you know, and also in this rather pauperistic society shows that we are not dealing with this, in fact, already in the academic scene, mainly with ladies. Richard Sandy might be someone else, and then there's the ladies who work with us on housing policy. Which way is our amendment going? We've actually looked for pennies to find those few million in almost 9.7 billion to finally start moving a little bit in this area. You have an Associate who's done what the Ministry doesn't do. The associate went to look at a series of foreign practices of housing cooperatives that, let's be clear, were created in some societies where they were in similar problems. In Switzerland, these were azhenponars, teachers, then also strong trade unions, which in some relatively expensive cities could provide people with a rather good quality housing environment, and this is once again macroeconomically important, you know. I'm not going to mention anyone who doesn't cut their ears, we're an extraordinary professor, and we've barely solved the housing issue, if the president of the National Assembly and I can be so frank, relatively late. If we had suitable housing cooperatives, we probably wouldn't even go into it. Or it would be easier to do this and these pennies would go to some other spending and generate jobs. Or would we, as crazy as we are in an affirmative sense, confuse more pennies for books — or not, Milan? Probably all of it. I want to say it very clearly. They also had problems abroad, so let's say Srna Mandič was telling me about a story from Rotterdam, a port town, where they had some oats that only spoke some crazy old Japanese dialects because you had someone else. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] The budget is half an hour less, and I'm explaining my amendment, my college buddy. We have time, you know, I'm sober if you're not, your problem. You had a port town, and they were left alone, and their fate had to be saved. They speak only a Japanese language — what will they do with it? And they were built by some housing community. That could work for us, too. It would also be a great time for us to engage in, of course, from some slightly different story, how we built these our bytes, the taxation of the housing fund. It would also be time for us to start thinking in the direction – polls of Slovenian public opinion show this for quite some time – that we have people who have affinities and who realize that real estate may not be such a good investment to speak in your discourse, not left-wing, because they are also a cost. Then we've got a bunch of multi-inhabitant buildings, that we're going to have managers, that every sparrow is saying that they have double accounting, accounting, and usually only some intermediaries are often going folk, and we have some kind of square circle that the next government actually has to go after, whoever's going to make it. This amendment is going in the direction of finding the 6 million that we are moving to this item that some government 2019 already says without some additional amendments, see, here we have 5 million and we will make 3 housing cooperatives. When there were gentlemen from Switzerland who had 5,000 housing cooperatives, and when I mentioned this at a previous session, then in the breakup with the SDS, you heard me there, and this is a socialist relic up and down. We, too, need a lot smarter people in Parliament who, without Mojca Mavec, will be looking over the boards at how these things are being saved elsewhere. Five thousand housing cooperatives have 20% of the people in Zurich live in buildings owned by residential cooperatives. We also need to change this housing culture. In Slovenia today, it is inconceivable that I would be a member of a residential cooperative, but would not own a particular square meter. But because we live in a society like this, you're alone, you meet someone, you have kids or you get divorced, they go somewhere their own way, up, down. I put this on Facebook as a rule – in several Swiss residential cooperatives as well as elsewhere – if the number of household members decreases under so many and so many, you go to a smaller apartment. And the folk went crazy because he thought, what now, you lunatics are going to change the law like that. Of course we can't do that. We have private property security in the constitution. These are some of the stories that we really have to go on, including – and we have not amended it this time – with the story of public passenger transport, including the story of a whole series of urban infrastructures. I'm from the English School of Urban Infrastructure, Graham, Marvin, two key authors, and that's what every responsible government should do. Or if, as a politician, it's great that you pay too much money for this kind of infrastructure. And in fact, no one has done this in over a quarter of a century. We're in some state we're in. It's not a responsible policy that you only deal with what suits you, but what you're missing, plus what you're going to get some election votes somewhere. Now you're going to be building, I don't know, hydro power plants on the bottom of Savi, where it's going to go quarter billion just for concrete, without the power plants in it, and at the same time SMC is going to want to run it a little bit in Zasavje to get the election votes there. Wait, people of God, let's ask ourselves, would we put this in something other than concrete? What if we put it in housing cooperatives instead? What if we went to see this gentleman who became a spinster of the year who works, I don't know, turbines for France? We environmentalists need to tighten up a little here, too. Of course, you don't have to drive that friend of yours there to blow the whole thing up. These are some of the things that need to be discussed, and the budget is more serious to look at. It's not like anyone who's going to be a minister or a Prime Minister says, you know, it's complicated. Whoever doesn't realize that they're in the 21st century, I'm going to say prefoxarically, things are perplex, not just complex, there's nothing to look for in politics. There's nothing to look for in politics in the ranking, but I don't know, but I don't want to be offensive, so here's a colleague of Lach, the size of his congregation. Only in state policy. We probably have too many of these strategies, we have too many fairy tales and it is high time to start doing some specific things, specific policies. These 6 million are actually waiting for the next government 2019, in which I sincerely hope that the Left will finally be a leftist government, not a leftist one, in the way of scarves, to start dealing with this pressing issue. Of course, there will be a need for rebalans, of course, much work will have to be done, especially in the area of urban communities, of course we will have to ask ourselves seriously, wait, there are 2 million of us, we have just over 6,000 settlements, we live in little less than 6,000 settlements, and we cannot bring everything around. We also have to ask ourselves, I don't know, but maybe it'll be good for us to do one good macadam. I know a story, over the Medwaters, one of my acquaintances was a councilwoman, almost lynched because she was opposed to being dragged up to one house where two families lived before the elections by five kilometers of asphalt. And they pulled the asphalt, probably with a bad drainage, which was spread out after about two years, after two winters, already in the middle of it, by the time they pulled, one family moved down, then the mayor won, then Oma, as they say in Maribor, died, then Mr. 14 days upstairs lived, then he went down to his daughter, and 5 kilometers of asphalt they shook, instead of having, I don't know, arranged some apartments in Medvod. We also need to start talking in this way, of course – I hope that in the next government we will also get a law on architectural activity, not in the way that has now happened to us that the architectural profession has hit all the other professions, because it has actually happened, I do not know that Janez Janša voted against his own daughter, perhaps because he has set her up somewhere else. If I voted against my own daughter and her discipline after a difficult study, if she gave me up in a newspaper with an ad -- I mean, it would be weird if she didn't. Now you sigh, that's actually – yes, the clock is late Priki, yes, early basically. This is actually crazy, this spatial legislation that we've been doing now shows we're one of the slabs again. This will not be resolved by the profession; it must begin to resolve the responsible policy. Sections always have some interests and distractions, but decisions are political. I very much like the previous mandate of the English Parliament when the actual Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, which is slightly different there, took them to a 14-day education on architectural urban foundations. We have some people in Parliament who have this knowledge, we have some people who have been working in construction, something in architecture, we have some mayors and sub-districts who have often had to break through this forest of crazy sub-laws, it's high time we opened these things up and say, because we don't have these policies, we have some little things. This amendment is aimed at finding some small extension, finally starting to be implemented, so that someone who will be Prime Minister or Prime Minister or President of the next government will not be burdened, or half crying, by a half year before the end of the government to carry out some pilot projects. It's actually a short notice on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u153	Since, at the beginning of the original debate, it was mentioned that we were both extraordinary professors with Dr. France Trčko's colleague, I have to correct him with at least the correct information that I am only a docent. Any other discussions? There are no more debates. Then I conclude the debate on this. We are moving to the budget user 2611 Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities and discussion on the amendments tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Monetary Social Assistance and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. In the debate sub-programme Equalization of opportunities for people with disabilities and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am also putting into discussion the sub-programme Programmes to help the family and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving to the budget user 2613 of the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for work and the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting to the debate a sub-programme on Labour Management and Control and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u154	Thank you for your word. It is a slag proposed by the Left through all the budgets. We know that we have a big problem at the Labour Inspectorate, we know that we need a real doubling of these people, this staff, and you always overtake us with this amendment, which means you don't want to regulate this area. In a bad decade, the number of people at the Labour Inspectorate even decreased by 10 and decreased by one quarter at the Work Conditions Inspectorate. What do the last two, three governments say? That they don't care what conditions the workers will be working under. And for an inspector like that, someone has to go to school. We've been winding this up all along, and if I'm going to, we also have to turn tax policy upside down to punish excesses. And, of course, Furs must finally start doing his job. We don't need any new parallel SDK establishment now, like someone said, Furs has to become what he's meant to be. The amendment and I are again calling for at least a few ten, at least twenty people to be employed, to relieve inspectors. Today I've been talking to craftsmen, entrepreneurs, they say, because we're moving a little bit in the right direction, but we really need to clean up. We will have different ownership structures, from cooperatives to local communities, to private, to mixed ones, but people simply want to enjoy their work, work for them to live, and not vice versa. Of course, we need a strong inspectorate that will actually assist in this kind of cleansing. That's what this amendment is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u155	Anybody else want to discuss this? Nobody. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving to the budgetary user 2711 of the Ministry of Health and the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Investment investments at the secondary and tertiary level and the amendment of the Levica Group of Ambassadors. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u156	Thank you. I have already explained this in the general debate, in one part this is the issue of UKC Maribor, if we want to have a university clinical centre, we also need to provide him with money. We can't just say that. And that didn't happen all the time. Whoever gets there will need some help to start working normally. There is also some unconstitutionality, because we, who live on our side of the trojan doughnuts and the clan, are citizens of the second, third order. We pay the same in health care, but we have worse services or we have to wait too long in some waiting types of clinical centre in Ljubljana. We also need a university clinical centre for the serious development of the Faculty of Medicine in Maribor, which is a good university, by the way, although some from Ljubljana, even those who teach there, say it is not. This says more about them than about the medical college in Maribor. And, of course, there are other investments. But we have to be seriously aware and say – I went to watch, so we like to compare ourselves with Austria and with someone else – so that we can compare our health care with Austria, we should invest 2.4 times as much in Austria as we are investing now. To not talk too long about this, we have sought money and moved it from the EU Presidency to health. We have built on Brdo a purely personal matter in which the EU Presidency by Slovenia can be carried out in 2021 if the EU still exists. We can do something white, do it up, down, we don't need 20 million dollars to do it, so we took that money from there. Of course, we need a good UKC in Maribor and, after all, a message to students and medical students in Maribor that we are serious about them. Someone's going to say it might be Duck's personal amendment because two of my kids are studying medicine in Maribor. I do not want my daughters to be educated with budget money in Slovenia for Austria. I have a doctoral student, whose husband we have here as a top-notch child surgeon, a cardio surgeon, and now he works at the "herzclinic" in Munich. It's probably about time we stopped being so stupid. We put some 100,000 euros into his education, but, of course, when he came back, he was spifferderber of some kind of agreement with that gentleman from Israel and so on. This is also a budget discussion. This is also a serious view of the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u157	Anybody else want to discuss this? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving to the budgetary user 3330 of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport and the debate on the amendments tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Support for Research Infrastructure and the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting into discussion a sub-programme to support activities in the field of education and sport and the amendment of the Levica Group's Members. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Implementation of primary school programmes and the amendment of the Ambassadors of the New Slovenia Group. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am also putting into discussion the sub-programme Sport Infrastructure and the amendments of the SDS Group Members. Mr. Jean Mahnič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u158	Thank you, President. For a short while, what I mentioned earlier. Last year we had an extraordinary meeting of the Education Committee on the theme of sports infrastructure in Slovenia, where we received a list by the Olympic Committee of some 60 sports facilities that are currently either being renovated or in construction. Unfortunately, the Government has not committed even EUR 8 million to sport infrastructure in total in this mandate. We tried our amendments last year, unfortunately unsuccessfully, this year was a call for proposals, we know how the funds were allocated. Sports objects that are being built on a new one have been devoid of funds, while others have been fighting for scraps. With this amendment, we follow a positive policy towards sport, which is largely lacking by athletes, and to finally get sports infrastructure, so that we can educate young people in particular. If you go to Slovenia and look at the state of the periphery, in the countryside of the sports hall, gyms In particular, we are building a new village in Gorenje, 4 million euros will stand, we haven't even got the euro. [[…]] They will build a new one in the Jury, and they cannot count on the invitation to tender because there is simply no means, and this sports infrastructure is still absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-14-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u159	Anybody else want to discuss this? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving to the budgetary user 3340 of the Ministry of Culture and the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Protection of Cultural Heritage, archival and librarian activity and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The vote on the amendments and on the specific part of the supplementary draft budget will be held in accordance with the timing of the meeting in the framework of the votes on Thursday, 16. 11. 2017, half an hour after the end of agenda item 35 or at 9 a.m. We are moving on to the consideration of the Development Programme Plan. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The vote on the Development Programme Plan will take place on Thursday 16th, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. 11. 2017, in the context of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 35th agenda or at 9 a.m. Still, I would point out one thing that I've noticed, and it might be a good idea to think about it. Where there is no debate on the amendments, I kind of don't want a very big explanation of vote. This really should not be a substitute, because now was the time for discussion, and I hope that we will take this into account when we vote. I hereby adjourn the 35th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m.
