ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 36th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Dr. Jasna Murgel, Iva Dimic from 17:00, Dr. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, Nada Brinovšek, Vesna Vervega, Dr. Simona Kustec Lipicer from 11:00 to 13:00, Irena Grošelj Kosnik from 2.30 p.m., Andreja Potočnik, Janja Sluga, Vojka Šergan to 15 p.m., mag. Tanya Zink, mag. Andrej Shircelj, Franz Breznik, Dr. Franc Trček from 12.30 p.m. to 12.30 p.m., Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec from 2 p.m. to 2 p.m., Dr. Milan Brglez to 12 p.m., Dr. Mitja Horvat from 19:00 p.m., Danilo Anton Ranc to 2 p.m. and Branko Zorman. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving on to 13. At the end of the day, that's a second-hand proposal for a law on the regulation of public roads on a regular basis. The draft law was submitted to the National Council for consideration. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to Mr Igor Zorčič, Chairman of the Committee, to further explain the proposal for a decision. Here you go, Mr. Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u2	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is held at its 35th session. 11. 2017 as a parent working body, the proposal for a law on the regulation of the ownership of public roads submitted by the Council of State to the National Assembly for consideration following a regular procedure. In a supplementary explanation, Mr Dusan Strnad, on behalf of the proposer, highlighted the main solutions contained in the bill. He pointed out that the Council of State had decided to submit a proposal for a law because the municipalities were receiving more frequent calls to take a more intensive approach to solving the problem of categorised municipal roads running through private land; and to arrange property relations or to exclude land from the categorisation of municipal roads. He pointed out that municipalities are not opposed to property regulation; the biggest problem is the lack of financial resources, even for ongoing work and investment. However, those agricultural lands which were sometimes owned by municipalities and could be used to replace them had to be transferred to the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests. The mayor of the municipality of Dol pri Ljubljana mag also participated in the presentation of the bill. Janez Tekavac, who added on behalf of 68 instigators, added that the bill solves the problem of 23,000 kilometres of undetected and land-book-free categorized roads. As a key solution to the bill's proposal, however, he highlighted the determination of the assumption of possession, in a way that we believe that property is publicly owned if a public road has been built on it for more than 20 years. He pointed out that there were cases where a decade did not exercise property rights on the land on which the road was running and even helped to build it; therefore, in his view, it was not possible to talk about decommissioning, since the owner had already abandoned his property right. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service took note of the comments made by this service in the written opinion. On the basis of the examination of the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the legal system and the technical and regulatory aspects, it stressed that the proposed regime, which allows the State or the municipality as a public legal entity and the institution of the authority to obtain property rights free of charge on the basis of the presumption of possession, precludes the fundamental concept of permissible coercive interference with property rights, which can only be exercised against compensation and has such dissuasive effects; but does not take into account the requirements for constitutionally permissible interference with property rights in accordance with Article 69 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Moreover, the proposed regulation also interferes with the principle of trust in law, which is one of the principles of the rule of law and ensures that the State does not make its legal situation worse without the reason behind the prevailing public interest. The contested regulation constitutes ex-post confiscation of property rights as a result of the abandonment of the lawful conduct of a public legal person in the acquisition of property on which public roads are built and constitutes a material deterioration of the legal position of all property owners who have not entered into a legal business or who have not been deprived of their property by a legal decommissioning decision. Members of the debate were of the uniform opinion that the issue that the proposal for a law seeks to address is that it is a matter of matter that should have been dealt with before the time. On the content of the bill, however, they agreed with the warnings and comments of the Legal and Legislative Service, which in its opinion points out that the solution proposed in the bill is constitutionally controversial. As a result, it was suggested that the proposal for a law was not suitable for further consideration, which was adopted after the discussion and also by eight votes in favour and none against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u3	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the proposed law to Mr Dusan Strnad to present my position on the proposal of the working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that. A lovely greeting to all of you on behalf of the State Council and also on my behalf! Most of the reasons why the Council of State decided to propose this law was already stated by Mr President-in-Office of the Committee. I would like to add just a few points why we have decided to file a marriage. The fact is that under current legislation land transfer procedures are too late, too complicated and too expensive for public funds; therefore, municipalities, as well as the state, have such problems which are less successful in transferring ownership from private to public. This means that the legislation so far is obviously not appropriate, as the problem is still large and far from being solved. The Council of State has also decided to submit a proposal because we have been working for years to change the legislation in order to enable the municipalities and the state to actually regulate ownership. This problem, as you've heard, is not small. It's a big problem for 23,000 kilometers of roads. Our calculation is also for public funds, if compensation is paid at current prices, that means over a billion euro of the funds that will have to be provided in the municipal and state budgets. Of course, they don't have this money from the congregation right now. It's also a problem that hasn't happened since yesterday. This problem has had a long beard for decades. However, current municipal councils and mayors are expected to rescue him in a short time, which obviously is not possible, although there is a will and many are already doing so. However, the problems we face are so great that they are simply insurmountable. When a case comes to court, they are usually in favor of private land; and here the congregations are weaker. The Ombudsman has also been pointing out this problem all these years. In his report on this subject, he devotes a lot of attention each year, and every year we all promise to resolve it somehow; however, the matter does not move. On the part of landowners, there are certain unloving cases, threats. There are also cases when this has already happened, such as categorized roads closing down. Unreally high claims for compensation arise, and often and most often even the unresponsiveness and uninterest of current landowners in order to resolve this. Not the minor problems that arise are the problems of private and public investors, as they are required to access the public road. And if this public road is not public, in fact categorised, they are often required to obtain service from those owners who are actually owners. That, to put it mildly, is unacceptable and irresponsible of us to let investors deal with it. The Council of State is already dealing with this issue for the last time. We organized a consultation on this topic in 2015, which was extremely well visited, one better visited by professions, interested owners and also municipalities. There we have drawn up 23 proposals, initiatives and recommendations on what needs to be done, how this should be resolved, but to this day almost nothing has happened. As has already been said, Mr Tekavac, who drafted this bill and adopted it unanimously, is a lawyer. In his explanation, he explained quite thoroughly why he had decided to go to the Institute of Acquisition and also supported it. Just one more sentence, if you don't mind. Since the law is likely to be rejected, I would like to point out that the problem will not be solved. We need to be aware that the problem remains and that we need to find the right solutions so that this problem can be resolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u5	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to Mr Mag. I'm putting pressure on it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u6	Dear Members and Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia opposes the proposal for a law on the regulation of the ownership of public roads submitted to the National Council. The Government opposes the proposal because it considers that it is largely incompatible with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Otherwise, it agrees that the unregulated land-booking situation on which public roads are built is a pressing issue and that it needs to be addressed, which the Government and the competent ministries have long been alerting. In this respect, the State Council's initiative is understandable, but the Government cannot support this proposal for constitutional reasons. The Government’s view is that constitutional case law must be taken into account for the area under consideration. Simplification of procedures or conditions for regulating the property rights of the State or municipalities, contrary to the clear positions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, does not contribute to the regulation of this situation. The same solutions as proposed by the Council of State had already been implemented by the Law on Public Roads, and the Constitutional Court repealed the provision allowing for a simplified book for non-compliance with the Constitution. This issue must be addressed only as has been decided several times by the Constitutional Court, either by the conclusion of a contract or in the process of expropriation, where the landowner has the right to compensation in accordance with the law. The Government considers that the proposed law on problem management is not necessary as measures and procedures for regulating the real-law relations of public roads are already adequately regulated in the applicable legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Danilo Anton Ranc will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u8	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, distinguished representatives of the Government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a law on the regulation of the ownership of public roads is being considered at the initiative of the Council of State. The applicant argues that the proposed solutions aim to address the problem of as many as 23,000 kilometres of undetermined and land-based unregulated categorised roads. The proposal for a law should allow for the systematic rehabilitation of the legal situation, where for decades the state and the municipalities have provided and maintained public roads that have not been opposed by land-book owners to date, even though they are built by land formally incorporated into individuals and not into the Republic of Slovenia and the municipality. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we agree that in this case, the land area on which public roads are built is a very complex area requiring appropriate solutions. Nevertheless, the solution proposed by the Council of State cannot be supported, as the text of the bill in several respects is unacceptable, for serious reasons of constitutional judgment. The comments made by the competent Legislative and Legal Service, the Government and the Secretariat Ministry mainly refer to the possible non-constitutional nature of the so-called acquisition. The legal solutions would allow the State or the municipality to obtain property rights free of charge on the basis of the assumption of possession, which constitutes a direct intervention in property rights which could otherwise be exercised only against compensation. In this way, we would achieve dissolution effects, but not in the manner permitted by Article 69 of the Constitution. In addition, the proposed solution also interferes with the principle of trust in law, which is one of the principles of the rule of law, Article 2, of the Constitution, and ensures that the State of its legal situation will not deteriorate without reason based on the prevailing public interest and in the principle of equality before the law, Article 14, paragraph 2, of the Constitution, as it introduces a distinction between owners of property on which public roads are built. We do not support the proposal in the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre of the Law because we believe that the proposal for a law in large part is inconsistent with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, so we will support the conclusion that the proposal for a law on the regulation of the ownership of public roads is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u10	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, distinguished representatives of the Government, representative of the Council of State and MPs and Members of Parliament! In Desus, we agree with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, with the opinion of the Government and most of the discussers at the meeting of the Infrastructure Committee, that the proposal for a law on the regulation of the ownership of public roads in the main part is incompatible with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. We also agree with others that the unregulated land registering status of public roads is a long and pressing problem facing municipalities and the state. The fact is that these problems stem from a systemic period of social property when land-booking regulation of the ownership of public roads has not been addressed. Thus, many municipal roads were built so that neither the contract nor the leasing procedure was concluded in relation to land, but most of these cases were settled by oral arrangements or declarations in the process of obtaining construction permits, without compensation. However, the property right of the municipality was not registered in the Land Book, as there was no relevant instrument of entry, such as a contract or a decision of the disqualification authority. It is precisely because of the longevity of this issue that we regret that the solutions proposed are unconstitutional, as confirmed by constitutional jurisprudence. At the same time, it should be recalled that the same solutions proposed by the State Council already contained the Public Roads Act 1997. The Constitutional Court subsequently repealed the provision allowing for simplification of the book in 2002 because of its non-compliance with the Constitution. For the time being, this issue is being resolved as has been the case with the Constitutional Court on several occasions, either through the conclusion of a contract or in the process of expropriation, where the landowner has the right to compensation in accordance with the law. In the Desus Group, we believe that it will be necessary to make a fair effort, that all parties involved will have to bow their heads and find a legal solution that will not be constitutionally disputed. Finally, let me say that in the Desus Group we will support the conclusion that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Škoberne will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Of course, there is no doubt that, in the future, the issue of the irregularity of property relations in real estate, where public roads and roads are built, will have to be addressed significantly more effectively than so far. I'm sure we're all aware that this solution won't come to the table tomorrow. This is precisely why, on the positive initiative of the Council of State, which we also welcome because the State Council is making less use of its constitutional competence, we are thinking in the Social Democrats Group in a way that, on such a complex and difficult issue, the use of the instrument of pre-legislative procedure within the competent national assembly committee should apply. This would make it easier to come up with a solution that would not potentially be so constitutionally controversial and that would not interfere with fundamental property rights, which are in the Constitution, which is currently valid, but sacred. It is therefore important to stress that the free acquisition of property rights alone on the basis of the assumption of possession cannot be something that could be overlooked, so we will oppose this law in the Group of Social Democrats. We will support the conclusion that it is not appropriate for further consideration, in the hope that the process of solving this complication will not stop here and that another procedural framework may be used to address this complex issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Lah will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The National Council, as a bill-makers, sets out between the objectives of the bill's proposal the regulation of the problem of unregulated property relations in real estate on which public roads, public roads and non-tegrated roads used for public road transport are built. This should be addressed by simplifying the procedure for the regulation of property relations on which public roads are built. Since we have as many as 23,000 kilometres of undeclared and land-booked categorised roads in Slovenia, the bill should allow the legal situation to be systematically remedied when the state and the municipality have been providing and maintaining public roads that have not been opposed by land-book owners to date, even though they are built on land formally written to individuals and not to the Republic of Slovenia or to the municipality. There are few cases when we have paved roads in the congregations, since the congregation and the landowner cannot agree on a situation. In the New Slovenia Group, we estimate that there will be more of these cases every year because properties are passed from generation to generation. Young people are much more educated about their rights, and we believe that a comprehensive approach is needed to address this problem. In the New Slovenia Group, we are aware of the need to regulate the ownership of all unbiased and land-booked public roads, but not in the way proposed by the State Council. In our Group of Members, we defend the rule of law and thus respect the rights of all citizens. The essential element of real law is the nature of property, it is property rights. Classic real law is based on private property, it is on the individual's right to use the thing he wants, without almost any restrictions. In our opinion, the owners of the plots on which they built public roads in the past were unable or unable to use or dispose of their private property, so we believe that fair compensation should be provided to these owners. According to the proposed law, this is not the case because the applicant provides for a real estate institution on which public roads have been built for more than 20 years and for the possibility of a land bookkeeper to require the purchase of real estate for those properties on which public roads are built for less than 20 years. In the New Slovenia Group we welcome this initiative and this proposal from the State Council that this is a very big problem. However, we cannot agree with this, as the government says, that this is already being arranged; this is clearly not the case. And that shows the misery of our state administration. This problem needs to be solved immediately. It's hard to save him overnight, we're all aware, including all the mayors. However, it is necessary to propose such a law in order to first demonstrate public interest, that it is possible for those owners who do not wish to take the compensation or sign that it is for the public benefit to relax; after a short, urgent procedure, and to receive a fair compensation. It is therefore necessary to adopt such legislation. And if the government continues to claim that this is arranged, which is certainly not, we in the parliamentary group expect the government to take this matter seriously and prepare the law. But obviously not, so in the New Slovenia Group we will try to prepare a law, together with the associations of municipalities, mayors and the Council of State, which will allow for fair compensation and regulation of this issue in due course. We did not oppose this law at the board meeting and we will not be against it today; nor can we confirm it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Dr. Franc Trček will present the position of the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. Nice hello to you all! In Slovenia we have more than 23,000 kilometres of categorised roads, unmeasured or unregulated land. These are public roads that have been going through private land for decades, and we use them all because they are part of public transport infrastructure. In order for the land that runs these roads to become public property of municipalities or states, the legislation has two mechanisms — redemption and/or decommissioning. However, since human greed is insatiable and the right to private property is protected as a holy cow, the problem of regulating the ownership of public roads has not moved from a dead point for decades. Owners require unreasonablely high compensation, which makes the buy-in process impossible. However, when the congregations try to break up, the matter gets stuck when the decision takes place in the Constitutional Court. This, since 2011, has constantly put the right to private property ahead of public interest and repeals municipal decisions. These must be accepted in advance as the basis for the initiation of decommissioning procedures, as we know. The government has been observing this for a long time — not just this government, but governments in front of it — and nothing is done to make things right. Moreover, the municipalities are threatened with sanctions, including by the dissolution of municipal councils and the discharge of mayors, unless they are more actively regulating the property situation on land through which public roads are carried out. Clearly, however, it is not the inaction of the congregations, the inactivity of local self - government, that is the fault of the wrong legal framework within which the congregations can do so. We cannot agree in Levica that the right to private property is more important than public interest. Private property is a matter of individual owners, while public interest is expressed at company level as a whole. The Constitutional Court states that, by referring to public benefit, it is not possible to justify the punishment of those who are not subject to an unconstitutional state by exercising and enjoying their property rights. And now we come to the key ideological issue. This raises the question of what property rights a person can exercise and enjoy on a land through which a public road runs. The fact is, this is a dead property from which the owner has no advantage. It is therefore right that the ownership of this land be transferred to the congregation or to the country. And this is also the reason why in Levi, in principle, we support the law, and we will not support the decision on the inadequacy of the law for further consideration. The main observation of the law is that it is impermissible to interfere with the right to private property guaranteed by the Constitution. And here is essentially the heart of the problem not only of this law, but of the whole social order. The Socialists are committed to eliminating this kind of property; and here I stress private property. Of course, this is not about personal property that we people need to satisfy our own needs with it; it is property that is largely based on trade. The advantage of personal property is that everyone has what they need. Personal property is the property that people use for and in everyday life, and we often urgently need it for life. It is often the idea of private property that someone has something someone else needs; but it was either disabled or even taken away. In a society based on private ownership rights, more power is given to people who accumulate more things that others need but cannot reach them. What follows from this? It follows that they have greater control over what others perceive as needs or desires; usually more control in the interest of increasing their own profits. This is the foundation of capitalism, the basis of the system's violence, which is the source of most of the troubles of 90% of people in the world who have only modest personal property. Therefore, the right to private property in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia must be replaced by the right to personal property. And what I've been saying relates to minimum wages and my low-retirement omens in Maribor, to the positions and types of policies that Slovenia does not have, including policies for under 40 years. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u17	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration, we will decide tomorrow, 14 December 2017, in the framework of the votes. I'm putting an end to the 13th item of the agenda. We're moving to 21. At the end of the day, it is firstly a proposal for a law on amendments to the transport laws in road transport. The draft law was tabled by a group of 19 Members and Members with first-signed Mr Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 19 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer to Mr Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Mr Secretary of State, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! 14 days ago, I was in a hurry to visit Brussels, where we had a meeting of young Members of the national parliaments of the European People's Party. When I arrived at the airport, I was in a hurry to meet, so I had only 2 options, or wait about 20 minutes on the taxi and pay a good 40 euros to take me to the center; or via mobile app order Uber, where I waited exactly 3 minutes and paid 23 euros for the transport to the centre. To get on a bus or a train, it didn't count because I was in a hurry to get downtown. Why am I saying this? Because we're talking about a divisional economy. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we propose to open the door to the dividing economy in Slovenia. What's this all about? The point is that you can use your private property for market or commercial purposes. This is why we propose to amend the Road Transport Act. Today there are many platforms through which you can offer your private property on the market as a service. One of these private properties is definitely a means of transport. In this national assembly, we have talked many times about road traffic conditions. And one solution for this is also the proposal proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. You have probably all heard of Uber, this platform, which is an intermediary or in some way an organiser of transport between individuals in some countries, as well as between companies and individuals. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we propose to amend the law in this direction to amend Article 1 and define the matter in such a way that the provisions of this Act do not apply to the provision of transport between natural persons or between a licensed undertaking and a natural person. We also provide certain conditions or tighten the situation in this direction so that no beginners should carry out these transports, these are young drivers, that passengers should also be insured and that they should not be carried out by those with penalty points. This is a proposal that we make in the first reading. In view of the discussions I had with some Members outside our party, we have somehow come to the point that in the second reading, if it comes to this, the bill is likely to be corrected in this direction in order to make the matter even more difficult to start, or to allow this Uber platform to begin only to transport between a licensed company and a natural person; not all natural persons, but only with a licensed company and a natural person. Here is also the question of the sense of sharpening the point of criminality, because we know what offences are being committed. We believe that with this proposal we would open something new to step forward with time so that we can no longer close our eyes before modernisation. Of course, there are other platforms. The vast majority of us here also know Airbnb, about which there has been a lot of talk lately. What is most important is the evidence that is likely to come from some Members of Parliament, from groups of Members, what is happening abroad, that Uber is exploitative and so on. The issue would be transparent, in a way that would link Uber to the financial management servers, so that they would know exactly how many transports were carried out and how much prices there were. And to drive for Uber and other platforms that might come to Slovenia in a way that pays all taxes and contributions. Someone who wants to drive for Uber would be, on this proposal, if they were to turn him in this direction, someone with a license, if you say directly — a taxi driver. With this proposal, we went in this direction so that we would not cause taxi drivers to get ahead, but to promote healthy competition, which is still necessary in Slovenia today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u19	For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure mag. I'm putting pressure on it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u20	Dear Members and Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers that the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Road Transport Act, submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia by a group of Members with first-signed Jozet Tank, is not suitable for further consideration because it does not guarantee equal access to the labour market, distorts competition in the field of public passenger transport and does not allow effective control. The provisions of the Road Transport Act would not apply to the provision of transport between natural persons or between natural persons and undertakings provided that the intermediary has to ensure that the transport is carried out by undertakings which are able to carry out activities under this Act or by natural persons who, at the time of transport, have unfavourably insured passengers in the vehicle, do not have any criminal points pronounced under the road safety regulations and do not beginners under the applicable Drivers Act. The proposal of Members does not address the comprehensive issue of the possibility of hiring a vehicle with a driver and allows transport to be carried out on the basis of the so-called UberPOP application, which means that each person can carry out transport. So far, this option has proved to be an inadequate solution in most European Union countries. The proposal also does not regulate changes in the operation of taxis which are necessary when the possibility of hiring vehicles with drivers is introduced by new technologies to ensure equal access to the labour market in both modes of passenger transport. Nor does the bill ensure that the information obtained by service providers through modern information platforms is directly transmitted to the National Traffic Management Centre, where we set up a system for traffic management and management in the Republic of Slovenia. This will be based on current flow and traffic data and will provide information on current traffic developments to all relevant companies in the Republic of Slovenia. The draft law does not provide for the possibility of control of operators in terms of labour and tax legislation, nor does it comply with the Road Transport Contracts Act governing the contractual relationship between the contracting authority and the carrier. Pursuant to this law, a passenger must pay the carrier's fare. In order to further introduce intermediaries in this relationship, the Road Transport Contracts Act should also be adapted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Igor Zorčič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Say good-bye again! The Transport Development Strategy in the Republic of Slovenia by 2030, which was adopted in 2015, defines the vision of transport policy as ensuring sustainable mobility of the population and economic supply. The term "sustainable" refers to the effective functioning of the transport system, which operates at the intersection of the environmental, social and economic aspects. If, for the purposes of dealing with the law we have on the tables, we release that part of the transport policy vision relating to the supply of the economy and focus on that part of the vision that refers to ensuring sustainable mobility of the population, we can see that in this part, the emphasis is on the vision in the public passenger transport strategy, which builds its development potential on intermodality and integration with other modes of transport. The classic subsidised public transport on semi-empty buses and on semi-empty trains cannot deliver a vision of sustainable mobility of the population, and the development of integrated public passenger transport and intermodal transport must also be promoted. In the Modern Centre Party, we assess that the development of internet platforms, as well as the so-called service-sharing economy, such as Uber, can form the basis for sustainable mobility within the framework of the adopted transport development strategy. If we want to encourage people, for example, to drive by train, it is necessary to ensure that transport is as accessible and secure as possible from home to train station, which is unfortunately provided only to passengers in larger urban centres and significantly less in smaller areas where the population can only use its own transport or taxis. Therefore, transport via the Uber system could be such a accessible, reliable and affordable mode of transport that could have a significant impact on the development of transport in the Republic of Slovenia. However, we note that this company does not yet guarantee everything we want and everything we need, and with the reckless change of legislation due to new forms of transport organised through online platforms, there could be more problems than we have planned to solve in the Transport Development Strategy in the Republic of Slovenia. From abroad, where this company operates, there is several negative news of many disputes in the courts, before the administrative authorities and other authorities that are taking place because of the company’s operation and which in the grave somehow constitute a distortion of competition against taxis, as already mentioned by the Government in its position. We therefore agree in the Modern Centre Party with some of the Government's concerns, which addresses certain open issues regarding the implementation of such transports in the Republic of Slovenia. We also agree that the proposed solution allows unequal access to the labour market, distorts competition in the field of the public transport of passengers and does not allow effective control over this type of traffic; nor does the control concerning labour law, nor does it allow for control concerning tax legislation. Of course, this does not mean that initiatives for such transport, which, as has already been said in the introduction, can be very promising, must be broken down in caly; however, such a text as proposed in the law is not appropriate or appropriate at present, according to our assessment, to receive our support. Therefore, in our Group of Members, we will seek solutions that at the same time make it possible to operate such platforms, but that is appropriate and also in accordance with the practice abroad, to answer all the questions that have already been raised by the Government today and to which, as has already been said, we join. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Žnidar will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u24	Dear representatives of the Ministry, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In last September, the Vice-President of the Slovenian Government, Minister Boris Koprivnikar, signed a letter of intent with representatives of Uber in San Francisco. The letter stated that Uber's services are rich in functioning urban mobility ecosystems, that the service is safe, reliable and affordable and that the main winners are users. We all understood this signature as the basis for Uber's entry into the Slovenian market. In fact, nothing has happened since the signing until today. Everything since the signing of the joint letter of intent is awaiting concrete steps by which the Slovenian government would begin to implement its own commitments in the field of digital transformation and the collaborative economy. With Uberje's entry into the Slovenian market, users would get faster and cheaper transport services. For example, Uber would also be a welcome novelty in Ljubljana, where the taxi market works well; and Uber would price services or classic taxis to encourage improvement of services. An additional form of transport, such as the rental of vehicles by driver, would also allow for the creation of new companies. Uber would be very welcome in smaller Slovenian places where there is no permanent taxi service. In the United States, Uber is very often used for patient health care to get to a doctor without problems, as well as for the provision of transport services directly ordered by hospitals. No legal basis has been prepared at the Ministry of Infrastructure to date to allow such a form of transport in Slovenia; nor is there any information on whether the Ministry will even implement government agreements and promises. The President of the Government, too, asked an oral question 17. Ten. 2016 regarding the agreement, signature and introduction of Uber said: »The ministry that deals with development solutions in our country..., I myself was present at a visit to America when we discussed the digital development of Slovenia, the digitisation of Slovenia, Slovenia as a reference country in this area. The Ministry of Public Administration and Minister Koprivnikar has defined powers here, and he also has the role of co-ordinator of government activities in the field of digital transformation. I appointed him to this role myself, because the government needs such a link here. That is why he also signed a letter of intent with Uber in the United States when he was recently there. The direct implementation of such a service will only be possible once all legal conditions have been met and further agreements have been concluded with this co-organisation or company. By the end of 2016, the Ministry of Infrastructure is expected to prepare a proposal for amendments to the Road Transport Act." This was the response of the Prime Minister of the Government of Mir Cerar. The same question was also answered by Minister Boris Koprivnikar, who is responsible for this area, you have heard from the reply of the President of the Government, all the powers and, of course, also the duties and obligations. He answers: “In America I did not talk about when Uber will start driving in Slovenia.” That's right. But he raised three dilemmas. The first is, I quote: “The fundamental issues that we need to resolve in regulation are mainly labour relations issues, because if someone drives for Uber alone, then Uber is not employed, but is active.” Then, as a second question, he raised the issue of taxation. “This is not about who will be better – either taxi driver or Uber, it is about everyone having the same tax.” Logically, they have to. And the third dilemma that he highlighted was the need to resolve the issue of consumer protection in legislation. Of course, if a legal basis is to be drawn up, these dilemmas need to be answered, and this represents work. It has to be done. If a task is to be entrusted, then the work must also be done. But in the Slovenian Democratic Party we have prepared a proposal for a law on amendments to the Road Transport Act, which offers the possibility of a new mode of transport, this is the rental of a vehicle with a driver. Now, I'm going to make an accounting case. Let each of you calculate how much each individual in Slovenia gives for the cost of transport, how much it costs. This is a very large cost; in the fact that we calculate that each passenger car is only used on average 20%. If we calculate the total cost, each individual pays for transport through life more than the value of one house, or more than the value of one apartment. Do the math. Sit down and figure out what the cost is. However, I always imagine that in Slovenia the biggest cost is, I don't know, an apartment for young people; but no one ever thinks and thinks about the cost of transport. Why don't you sit down and do some math? The fact is that new technologies and new receipts are cheaper, transport is absolutely too expensive and it is necessary to find cheaper solutions. I believe there are certain dilemmas, certain problems in this, but these things need to be resolved. And even today, from the explanation of the Government's representative, the distinguished State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure, it was possible to understand that for the Ministry, the preparation of such a legal basis, which would give the possibility of a new mode of transport, was absolutely too much for the Ministry. This has been made clear today that there are so many problems that this cannot be done. We have a different opinion in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We believe that new technologies are cheaper; and these new acquisitions should also be introduced in Slovenia. This is good for every citizen, and for this we will continue to work in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u26	Dear Vice-President, distinguished representatives of the Government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In the Desus Group we join the opinion of the Government, which does not support the amendment of the Road Transport Act. We agree that the proposal has some flaws or that it has little imagination in certain parts. Thus, for example, the proposal does not solve the overall problem of car rental with the driver and allows for the possibility that passenger transport could be carried out by practically anyone who has his own vehicle and driver's license. The vehicle with the driver is intended to be leased through a particular application which allows for virtually all transport operations, since these vehicles are not usually marked. The user receives data on the type of vehicle, the vehicle registration plate and the driver’s name at the time of the service; these vehicles shall not be separated from others on the outside. as for example, a taxi can be identified immediately. This means that it would be extremely difficult for the competent services to control drivers, whether they have all the necessary permits, or do not have any criminal points; unless such a vehicle were accidentally stopped during traffic control or the inspectors would play potential buyers. This way of carrying out passenger transport according to our assessment distorts competition in the field of public passenger transport. This bill is intended to be intended for a specific company that carries out passenger transport practically around the world. This is a controversial company, which is very different in different countries. It is true that it is a cheap service, which is very easy and easy for users of modern technology; it does not require cash payments. However, workers are not insured through the company they work for, but usually have to open up their own espies. An action is therefore being brought against the company for the purpose of avoiding liability to its employees and consumers. In Germany, Italy and the Netherlands, the company is even prohibited. When the Minister of Public Administration presented a similar idea to that before us today, aimed at the same company, a number of NGOs even called him to resign because he encourages the most vulnerable forms of labour. In Desus, however, we agree with the proposal at the point that we will also have to enable modern technology in Slovenia and shared economies in the field of service delivery, whether transport services, accommodation offers or something else. In this respect, we are still lagging behind the rest of the world, although we are a technologically sound, advanced country. Finally, let me reiterate that the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Škoberne will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Secretary of State! It is important that in a modern society operating in market capitalism, it allows everyone under the same conditions, under the same standards, to provide services that they can offer, not distort competition and that no one is in a comparable or even monopolistic position in relation to others. This creates imbalances, increases the price and lower the quality of services provided in the long run. And in this same environment, of course, in all developed democracies, it is quite common that, despite the knowledge that this is harmful in the long term, many try to ensure their privileged position on the market. It is also not the first time that, in this national council, we are considering a proposal that would give precisely defined multinationals, although with a slightly blurred trace within the law, to provide a special position in our society, a special position on the market. There can also be nothing particularly wrong with this if it is possible to establish a specific public interest to enforce it. A while ago, we discussed, in the same principle, the implementation of the so-called lex Magna. Today we can rightly say that lex Uber is on the table. Therefore, from the knowledge of who and what we are really adopting the law and who and what it was prepared for, it is necessary to determine very precisely, especially through the prism of the fundamental values of our society and the key tasks of our country, whether we need such a law. This extraordinary interest in adopting a special lex multinational can, of course, be determined if this means a significant improvement in the standard of living of our people, if that means raising prosperity and if that means making our people's lives more dignified and better. So let me ask myself in the core whether lex Uber is a law in which it is able to recognize this kind of interest of the state, that a particular multinational allows for a special situation in our society, a derogation from the rules that otherwise apply to everyone. We need to consider whether there is a country's goal to safeguard the interest of a multinational through its fundamental task of facilitating the dignity of its people. The symbol of what is Uber? It is certainly a symbol of the shared economy, it is certainly a symbol of technological progress, and it is an important step towards the transformation of the world, as we have known it decades ago, as we know it in many ways today. At the same time, it is also a symbol of deregulation, liberalisation, which takes place in the field of auto-tax transport beyond all the rules, past all the established players and usually past all the security tax, social and consumer security guards we have in the country just to protect the consumer on the one hand, on the other hand, competition; and, on the other hand, we provide quality services for the lowest possible price. Uber is also a symbol of extreme precarnation, because, given the fact, the platform has actually taken advantage of the hardships of those who had no exit anywhere else; and which has put the concept of a divided economy into a platform so that it does not become rich, but in almost a slave's relationship drives the one who is forced to drive in a way that business, work, the possibility of survival is also taken away from someone else, who plays by all the established rules that have the appropriate licences, the permission of the local community and co-founder, if you want, including the world in which we behave and we care for the safety and well-being of all. Therefore, the answer of the Social Democrats to the question, whether or not to support this law is quite simple. No; because this law in no way shows the possibility that the public interest in creating well would necessarily need an exception from the existing order for a precisely defined multinational. The social democrats of this proposal will not be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Lah will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u30	Your Honor! It really saddens me to hear this. They say it is the worst thing for a politician or a Member if time strikes him; it is even sadder to see young Members squander time before they even start doing good. And also the Modern Centre Party would be able to be renamed, in such positions, when we cannot follow the trend of development, perhaps, to a client of a past centre rather than a modern one. Some Members, whom I know, who think otherwise, must move away from the position that someone has invented. Even the government, we've long known, has wasted time. When the Prime Minister praises the government, he confirms how we will be the reference country of the new economy, the technology of the blockchain, the technology of the data blocks that is coming; those who see a little longer are talking about how the car will drive itself without the driver. That's what's going on. We'd like a copilot next to the chauffeur to get two employees. We're going this way. When we drive to work from Dolenjska, 80% of cars with one passenger are registered for five. How much less crowded would it be if at least two of us were driving in a car?Oh, my God! It's only three or four. Gentlemen, the divisional economy is here, the apps are on the phones. If you're saying there's something untransparent that's hard to control, look what the hitters are.Oh, my God! The modern-day slaves? Everything's legal and everything's legal. Where new technology is coming, the new economy, as they say, and Slovenia is supposed to be the reference country in this work. Blockchain technology, which will be used sooner or later in all parts of the economy, we are ahead of others, leading the world. The government, which I consider only for its good, is working to ensure that even the legal bases, the laws follow developments in this area, which I almost only consider to be very good for it; that we do not get run over here, that our experts do not go out, that businesses do not register for this new economy outside. On the other hand, we behave in all areas as in the old Yugoslavia, as Kremenčki. Why aren't we following? Today, the Secretary of State spoke contrary to what the Minister in charge of this area and the President of the Government said. For some bureaucrats in ministries who have been there for three decades or more, you simply attach the Group of Members and Members to the government. Who is the government, or are your ministers, or are they ours? Let's make this real for once! And then you just figure out how to get back in power. Obviously, people want someone to reset it and put it on a new one, and I don't know who. And we find more and more, those Members who try to follow that people are right; not us, not the government, not some quasi-masters who wait only for the wages of every fifth. In the New Slovenia Group we will support this law. Even if we don't have it, Uber will come — legally or illegally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordiš will present the position of the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, chairman. Uber is one of the most shamelessly exploiting capitalist corporations. Well, the Slovenian Democratic Party with Jean Mahnič wants to enable him to use the inhabitants and residents of Slovenia shamelessly, along with many others around the world. What has failed to do with Minister Koprivnikar has now been brought to Parliament by the Slovenian Democratic Party in order to allow Uber to make billions of profits at the expense of all those who do not wish to receive adequate salaries, pensions and social support, to make billions of profits and to avoid paying social security contributions and paying taxes. The Slovenian Democratic Party does not want to bring Uber to Slovenia, but wants to bring Slovenia to Uber. It is true that we can witness a very serious exploitation in transport today. Work exaggeration, lousy payments by miles, no social security, work under impossible working conditions, and so on are the things that set the miserable day-to-day professional drivers. Well, in order to remove this situation and bring the entire transport industry under greater control of the competent inspections, we have already taken initiatives on the Government in Levica, called an urgent meeting and tabled a new amendment to the same law, which is now being amended by the proposer. But with this difference, that we wanted to improve the working conditions of drivers, provide them with an adequate payment and enable them to monitor compliance with the provisions on working time and the mandatory rest they are entitled to. The Slovenian Democratic Party is working on the opposite. By wanting to bring Uber to Slovenia, they want to cause even more social dumping and consequently even worse conditions, even more rewarding forms of employment and even worse pay for the work done. But it's not the worst thing ever. The worst part is that for a single corporation the law changes, one corporation only, in a way that completely excludes this corporation from the provisions, with the exception of a few loose requirements that should be met by drivers of Uber as natural persons. The fact is, Uber could come to Slovenia without a problem today and carry out transports like any other taxi service, but of course he doesn't want to. Why? Because he's not willing to agree to the terms of the Road Transport Act, out of pure greed. They want the opposite, the road traffic law has to agree to Uber's terms, but even though no one has chosen it, no one controls it, no one can call it off. Therefore, the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party is nothing more than a lobbyist capitulation of legislation before international capital. Once again, to the unelected, without any democratic standards, it does not fit people. There's nothing new about that, Uber. This is a proven 300-year-old exploitative capitalist relationship – a worker who differs from classical industrial capitalism only by transferring the cost of buying and maintaining resources for work to a worker here; it is not even some crazy invention that would not have been seen before. The only thing that Uber is truly innovative is avoiding and faking labour, tax and other legislation. In this way, it reduces its costs and constitutes unfair competition for all other carriers who cannot or do not want to do so. Drivers driving to Uber do not choose to do this because it would be a fine, well-paid service in which they achieve their own self-fulfillment, as we do with Flossouls on a changed way of life, a positive impact on employment and quality of life to convince SDS. We're not talking about regular work here. Very few Ubra drivers take this as a full-time job. Those who don't last much longer. According to some data, more than half of Uber's drivers are expected to drive for less than half a year, and nothing more. The reasons for this are: difficult working conditions, pitiful earnings, which barely, if at all, cover the costs of petrol and car depreciation. It is mainly a matter of occasional work in which those who do not have a decent life in the current economic situation are forced to do so. Those who have too low wages, those who cannot enjoy living with their family and friends after a regular eight-hour period, or pursue some of the passions that they are actually self-fulfilling. These are the ones who have to give up all of this and drive a poorly paid worker to Uber to patch up a hole in their bare survival. And let's be honest with ourselves, if you want, which one of us would rather drive to Uber tonight than be with his partner and kids. Nobody, except those who don't deserve enough to have a warm home and a full belly, gets into something like that. And in the light of the promise of the bill's proponents on the higher quality of life that Uber is supposed to bring, these promises come out as promises of an end to hunger by fasting. If Uber wants to come to Slovenia, he should carry out his activities like all other carriers. We'd rather see him in Levica if he never shows up. We need an effective network of public transport companies that will be managed by labour management. We need public transport, which will be more efficient and cheaper than passenger transport and will reduce the number of cars on our roads and thus contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions and cleaner air. The arrival of Uber brings none of this, bringing the opposite. That is why we will vote against the proposed law in Levica. To conclude, two more words on the dividing economy. A divisional economy can be a good thing if it happens in favour of the work and benefit of society. But in the case of corporations such as Uber, Airbnb and the like, we are faced with a situation where working people share only bits and livelihoods; and capital gains from their backs. This logic must be completely and fundamentally rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u33	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr Jan Mahnic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. It is quite amazing to hear the views of the Members of the groups, with the exception of the New Slovenia Group and the Slovenian Democratic Party, what reasons you have brought here against this law. If I had somehow taken the view of the Government, I could have said as my colleague Lah whispered to me when the Secretary of State read the position – because it will not be as it is now, the government does not support this law. Since it will no longer be as it is now, the government does not support this law, because this government is against all changes, this government is for the continuation of an existing state that does no good to anyone. The Secretary of State said there would be no surveillance. Tell me, Mr. Secretary, what kind of surveillance will there be? I have made it clear that Uber has already been linked to financial administration servers in the countries where it operates. This ensures transparency as to how many transports were carried out, where they were carried out, when they were carried out and how much tax must come from this address. As far as it's concerned. My question is, which one of you has used such an application, such a platform, say, specifically Uber, and knows how this is going. I used it in Germany, France, the United States of America, and there were positive experiences everywhere. And how's it going? They say everything is accountless. That's not true. We'd get an electronic bill. You get an electronic bill as soon as you make a payment with a credit card at the border. So the bill's been issued. How's this even going? Apparently, some people here think that just anyone who owns a car could sign up to a platform or an app and carry out transportation. Of course not. With the law that we are proposing, the matter would be taken up as follows. Someone who would fit the conditions we put in the marriage should open espies. With this espionage I would go to Uber, where I would submit all the certificates that this law provides or requires. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat said how we could control who would supervise. A young driver would not be able to carry out any transports because Uber would not give him a permit because he had to bring a certificate that he has no penalty points, that he opened the company, that he is not a young driver and that he has insured passengers. If I hadn't brought it, I wouldn't have been able to transport it to Uber. Then the government said it was distorting competition. That's not true. He's opening up competition. There's no competition between taxi drivers. From 0.75 to 0.85 euros per kilometer costs a taxi in Ljubljana. And with the law we are proposing, taxi drivers could also carry out transports for Uber or for another company. The government said it was setting up a system that would allow such transports to take place in the future. You've been setting it up for a long time. It's six months before the election. I doubt that you will come in the last half year with such a law that would allow for a divisional economy at least in the field of transport. You say everything you need to do. More than a year and two months have passed since the Minister of Public Administration, Mr Koprivnikar, signed a letter of intent, more than a year and two months have passed since the Prime Minister of the Government, Dr Miro Cerar, supported the efforts to get Uber to Slovenia; and there is still no proposal on the table. That is why we have invested it in the Slovenian Democratic Party. I ask you, Mr Secretary of State, how much time do you need in your ministry to amend one, up to two members. How long do you need to change a maximum of two articles? Or what about two articles in two marriages? There's no interest and there's no desire. I don't know why. And you said that it did not provide control over the payment of taxes, contributions and labour legislation. Why not? Tell me what the difference is between someone who has espa and works for Uber and someone who has espa and works for Metro, Laguna or another taxi service in Ljubljana. What's the difference? He also has to pay taxes and contributions. Unless there are two, three or four differences of Espeia in this country, which I doubt according to the legislation we have. In short, it's not true there'll be no control. Then the Modern Centre Party said that there were several negative reactions from abroad and again about distortions of competition and that effective control was not possible. And I don't know what kind of control you'd need. If Uber connects with financial administration servers, where everything is clearly recorded and the state sees how much taxes and contributions are to be paid if the invoices are issued, unless the undertaking does not grant a transport authorisation to those who do not comply with the conditions laid down in the law. What kind of supervision is there, Mr Secretary of State, and what kind of control do you think we would need?Oh, my God! I have already replied, as Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat said, that someone who does not have all these conditions, who does not meet the conditions, would not even be able to work for Uber. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not just Uber. Ola, Lyft, DD, Get, Taxify, Car:Go – these are all companies operating as transport intermediaries. It's not just about Uber. Other companies could also come under this law, which we propose, to Slovenia and offer their services. It was said that it was not possible for all to carry out their work under the same conditions. This came from the Group of Social Democrats. Why not? Who is prevented from working under the same conditions? Under the law that we propose, we make it possible for everyone to work under the same conditions. This law does not rule out taxis. Even taxi drivers could be transporting to Uber. I think it's been two months since we filed this marriage. I did not hear one taxi service, one taxi driver to oppose it, because we also made it clear at the time of the introduction of the law that taxi drivers would also be able to carry out transports for Uber. It was said that the law was written for a specific multinational. Unlike the law that allowed Magna to enter Slovenia, this is not a law that would allow only Uber to enter Slovenia, but also all the other platforms that I previously counted. A better standard and a raise in prosperity. But what can we do to improve the standard and to raise the welfare of our citizens and citizens, if not to offer them an opportunity to earn extra money without having any additional costs to start work at all. This is where he told his colleague Kordish not to reimburse them for the cost of buying and maintaining what they needed to do. Of course not, because it's the essence of a dividing economy to use something you already have to market this thing, like vehicles, including an example of housing, real estate. Now, even in this direction, I have talked to people in the European Parliament who say that they also want to open up the area of the dividing economy in agriculture so that someone who needs something from the agricultural machinery can easily borrow or use a platform of service orders. One more thing, ladies and gentlemen of Desus. I'm sure this marriage is nice to the pensioners. Just because of the fact told by my colleague Ljubo Žnidar – we do not have regular taxis in the countryside, we do not have companies carrying taxis. If you do, you're practically under the euro a mile away. By allowing companies to come to platforms in the area of the divisional economy in transport to Slovenia, the elderly would also be allowed to transport public transport or transport which could be ordered by someone who would do so. Rumors that we would then carry out transportation instead of being with partners and children at night are, of course, twisted from the vine. Tell me who's forcing someone to carry out these transports. That's voluntary. If someone thinks that Uber is exploiting the one who would drive for him, he probably won't go driving for Uber or any other app. However, this law allows someone who has his own means of transport to offer transportation to others. Many are now in a rural area that comes at two, three from work, and perhaps another hour or two from the afternoon for some extra income. Why do you keep people from making extra money? Or someone who lives in Ljubljana, who works in Ljubljana during the week, is educated here, comes with his car, and has time to do some hours of transport and with his own property he also earns extra. Anyone with a vehicle and a driver's license to be the only condition was also heard from Desus. Yeah, besides what we said, the penalty points and the accident insurance of the passengers. Whoever didn't have it couldn't even carry it. Uber in this area would not violate the law. Anyone, because it would be transparent to see how many transports there were, how much money there was in circulation, would, of course, pay taxes and contributions like anyone else who has espies and jobs elsewhere. It was said that there was a risk of evading the responsibility of workers. What avoiding responsibility? When you pay for the ride, you get the bill, and Uber gives the contract money to whoever's doing the transport for him. And here's the story for someone who has espé. What avoiding responsibility to employees?Oh, my God! It's a way to promote accommodating jobs. What about taxis? Most cabbies are espouses, and no one talks about fancy cabbie jobs because there are no other options. What is a dispatcher’s service is three, perhaps four taxi drivers who then carry out transport services for this dispatcher’s service are virtually all on espionage. And under this law, you could also carry out transports for the platforms to which we open doors through this law. Public passenger traffic. Yes, everything's fine and well; but I don't know why you'd drive on the Ljubljana–Talk by train for an hour and a half, minimum, pay 10 euros, if people prefer to take the car today. Not only the price of public passenger transport in Slovenia, it is especially time. My colleague Ferluga probably knows exactly how long the Ljubljana-Koper train takes, and he probably also knows why he doesn't take the train from Ljubljana to Koper. Not because you can't come because we know how it's connected to the track, but even if everything was okay, maybe I drove twice, I don't know if it took less than two and a half hours. And you're from Poljanska Valley with a car in Koper, if I go over Logatec, in a good hour. Then why would he use public passenger traffic?Oh, my God! It was said when I came to Brussels to get on the train. Again, time is money. If you're in a hurry, I'm sure you won't get on the train, but you will take the means of transport that can get you to the desired point in a short time. And when you're in a hurry, you don't have any other options. I also went from the airport in Brussels to the city centre by train. Once. I prefer to take a cab or since Uber, I always go with Uber. If distortion of competition makes the price more favourable, then we can conclude. Probably a lot of people will agree, you speak against monopolies; but what is today in the field of taxi transport is a monopoly. It's a monopoly. And by promoting competition, we break down monopolies. But it's obviously not in the interest of some people. According to what has been said, in view of all the news coming from different countries in Europe and around the world, the three oppose Uber, other companies in the area of the dividing economy. If I am specifically talking about our case – taxi drivers who are afraid of competition and who are opposed to price cuts, but this is not yet in Slovenia. I haven't heard any calls and objections from cabbies since we introduced the law, so obviously this doesn't apply to our cabbies. Then the unions, who remained trapped in time and space, objected. Individuals, political parties, other non-governmental organisations are also opposed, but in fact they are opposed to private property.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Dr. Franz Ducky, of course I have to give you my word for procedural, but I'm afraid you're trying to polynomize.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u36	No, no, I didn't.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u37	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. After three and a half years in Parliament, I can honestly say that when we get some material, some law, some strategy, even something else, we have no idea about a lot of things. I said – we have no idea. I'm putting Duck in here, too. Then the Members and Members of Parliament, the Group of Members, are different experts. Some of us learn about things and others improvise a little bit or think about things. The young member of the Slovenian Democratic Party somehow speaks vehemently: you have no idea. I have a personal idea of the shared economy and this issue, and I will talk about it in substance in the debate, and I will not abuse the rules of procedure. Please, President, remind him of such and such matters. Because I've been seriously preparing for three and a half years at every point, but I'm not going to ping-pong with some adult pub. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u39	Please, if not for the president. However, I think Mr Jan Mahnic has heard your initiative. Mr. Jean-Mahnich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u40	Thank you, Vice President. This “adult pub” received several times more votes than Dr. Franz Trček; and this in Maribor, where there is a significantly higher number of voters. Please apologize for that. But the other thing is, Mr Vice President, I'd like you to ask him to tell me where I said they had no idea. However, if I asked Members whether any of you had already used the Uber platform, that is no offense. Tell him to tell me, or give him a warning. I understand, however, the Left Party is limited in minutes, they have 25 minutes, all five of them are reported and Dr. Trček has to do a certain show with his extravagant performances, just like he does at every point. This is particularly the case when voting that breaks should then be settled, not for very short periods. Calm him down and please tell him that for the second time in the parliamentary group they should agree to give him a full 25 minutes to say what he has to say and then give him peace.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u41	I think it's some sort of reckoning that you should have with a magnetogram or something to be more precise about what was going on, so there's no doubt. But good. Dr. Runczek, please, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u42	Procedural. It's not nice to lie. Right, I got 560 votes at the election. Less than me, she only got Bojan, 523. That's the electoral system. But the Slovenian Democratic Party never tells the truth that Janša is in some district, which is the largest by the number of potential voters and voters. For example, in Estonia, before each election, new boundaries are made to make almost identical numbers of voters and voters everywhere. Of course you're resisting that. Please remind Mr Mahnič that he is not lying and that he is actually apologizing to me for distorting his view of the electoral system. And as a Member, you should know what he's like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u43	No, no, no. I'd like to ask nicely. It's not procedural, it's not procedural, it's not procedural. Here you go, but I hope we're done, because these are the squabbles that belong almost to the hallway. Here you go, Mr. Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u44	Thank you. Mr President, I think you can end this matter elegantly in such a way as to give a reminder to one. He knows who started it, and he also knows who's taking advantage of it. But since Dr. Duck is continuing, I will continue. He's saying I'm lying again. Tell me what I'm lying about. Good thing he said he got 560 votes. I got 2,000, 637. And I rightly said that I got several times as many votes as he did, more than four times as many. Let him tell me what I lied about; and give him a warning, or this ping-pong will continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u45	No, no, no. This ping-pong won't go on because I won't put any more procedural on this subject. We've heard from everyone you wanted to say. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u46	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Members, Members of Parliament, distinguished Secretary of State, co-worker! Although I have given my position to the Group of Members, I would like to say a few words about this law on my behalf. Today, we have repeatedly heard that Uber is a controversial company whose business is problematic in several aspects. And I will say first from the point of view of the user – of course this business is interesting because it is a cheap service, it is a reliable service, it is a service that you can pay with a credit card, the driver picks you up and puts you where you want to go. From the driver's point of view, that's no longer the case. While the driver keeps 80% of the amount to himself, Uber takes 20% of this amount or, if you say so, the fare. But the problem is that workers are not insured as classical workers. As we have read and heard here today, lawsuits against Uber are being filed in many countries in Europe and elsewhere, mainly because of violations of labour law. In some countries, Uber is even banned, for example in Italy, the Netherlands, even in Germany, where UberPOP works for two months. We must therefore consider here whether the operation of this multinational, who is to be brought to Slovenia, is problematic from the point of view of legislation. From the point of view of taxi drivers, if I mention it, it is unfair competition, a cheap competition that kicks the existing taxi service out of business; these are taxis that needed a license for their work. In Uber, however, transport services can be provided by anyone who has a driving licence. Jean Mahnič said other conditions before, of course, this must be taken into account. The government, as we have read, does not support the bill. Among other things, the Government states that the proposal does not address the overall issue of the possibility of hiring a vehicle with a driver, but allows transport to be carried out on the basis of the so-called UberPOP application. This is a form in which everyone can carry out transport, and in most European Union countries this option has proved to be an inadequate solution because it does not guarantee equal access to the labour market, distorts competition in the field of passenger transport and does not allow effective control. This is also a problem, and this would also be a problem in our country, because this control in terms of tax legislation and labour law does not guarantee; and this is problematic. Respected and respected, I would also point out that in Slovenia the arrival of Uberje is opposed by four NGOs, namely the Youth Plus Union, the Free Union of Slovenia, the Movement for decent work and social society and the Society of Migrant Counsellors. All of these oppose the arrival of Uber for the purpose of promoting the pecuniary form of employment that we are already facing in our country. In my opinion, we should have resolved these matters a long time ago, and we have not. If I finish because I'm running out of time, I'd end up wondering, who are we now accepting this marriage? Do we really think that by adopting this law and by Uber’s arrival in Slovenia, we will provide people with better conditions, better transportation? I think we already have a cheap cab today, or it's not a clean cab service that's adequate for our taxi drivers, because it's other transportations, but I don't think we'd be able to do that right now. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Let's get Dr. Jones ready. Franz Ducky. Here you go, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen! I have stated many times, insisting that technology is speeding up legislation, that is, us, the National Assembly, technology is speeding up. I guess, dear colleagues, we all understand and know what a hitchhiker means. I hope we all understand what the Internet means or, according to Slovenian, the Internet. If you put it together, you get a hitchhiker or, some popularly say, a hitchhiker on a network. What exactly is that? It's a Transport.org app. Ten, maybe thirteen years ago, time runs very fast, two students meet. One was Jure Chuhalev, a student of social computer science at FDV, and the other was a computerist Matjaž Horvat, who had no car every week because he had no car, vehicles from Ljubljana to Prekmurje and from Prekmurje to Ljubljana. These two young men were solving a completely banal problem, that's transport. But they knew that virtually every hour anyone traveled from Ljubljana anywhere, even to the periphery, and vice versa. And so these are the ideal fathers applications of Transport.org. I don't want to praise my children, but this Matjaž is my son. Transportation.org is not the same as Uber, not being held by my word is not the same as Uber. In fact, it is a very simple synthesis of autostop and modern technology, i.e. these boxes and a highway. The matter is working, and whoever is carrying out this transport is not doing any black work, by the way, ask the Ministry. And I would also sign this letter on the intention that Mr Koprivnikar, Vice-President of the Government, signed in San Francisco on 22 September 2016, because Nova Slovenija advocates what is said in the first paragraph of this letter on the intention – Uber and the Ministry of Public Administration of the Republic of Slovenia have established a dialogue aimed at taking advantage of social, I stress social, environmental, and economic potential of the growing, collaborative and digital economy. Their efforts stem from the common vision of Slovenia as a green reference country in digital Europe. And look at the fraction, now the right block of the opposition supports the vice-president of the government, and everyone else cuts it. Wrong world. I wouldn't want it, dear colleagues, that because you're opposed to the law for no reason whatsoever, any of you in a year would have a long nose like a Sniffle. And when you have terrible concerns about how to regulate legislation now; in the first reading, this law is good enough, and in the second reading on the parent’s working body you can and must complete it. And we have every possibility. In June last year, the European Commission issued guidelines for the proper application of European Union law to such business models, in general, with regard to market access requirements, liability arrangements, user protection, classification of workers and taxation, together with instructions to the Member States of the European Union on appropriate legal arrangements at national level. What else do we need?Oh, my God! The guidelines have been given and are more than a year old. Thank you, Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Matjaž Germany, to our colleague, who, let's be honest, encouraged the government first among us to regulate the so-called divisional economy at the legal level. Take a look at his parliamentary initiatives or questions on Airbnb. And of course Marko Ferruga of the Modern Center Party, which – now I do not know if it is still – may have been the first. So there have been initiatives by Members, but the government does not listen to us. Who rules this country?Oh, my God! This is the wrong world. Take a time-out and think about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Dr. Franz Runk, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u50	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting for everyone, nice greeting for young people on the balcony! We're talking about Uber. We're talking about an aberration or not. You know, the key question of Slovenia is not bone digging, nor is it whether Ivan Janez Janša is being wronged or not; the key issue of capitalism is the political and economic issue. The question is whether this youth who listens to us now can have a decent life or almost have to kick them unconscious, and they will have to take advantage of those little pensions and give their parents up and down in order to get to a hole, an apartment, and they will be credited for 30 years. And they're going to give money for too much concrete, instead of having, like in Vienna, where they've had a hundred years of housing policy, at least a quarter, if not a third, they're going to pay free to do what they want to do in life, and they're going to make a whole lot of jobs out of it. I'll read something first, then I'll thank Jansa. Bulgaria, Denmark, Hungary, even Orban, a number of cities in Spain were banned by Uber. My expert said I shouldn't thank him, that's what I went to look into. These are countries where they are in the coalition and in the power of a conservative EPP party, the same political groups where Nova Slovenija is a Slovenian Democratic Party. Good morning, Slovenia! It's about families. Next, even a little bit of deception. Article 1 also states “or natural persons”, not only especies. Let's move on. Bush Jr. is coming to Alaska. So, the presidents are walking around a very well-known story, you can Google it on YouTube, and they're talking there, like they say in Maribor, with lunatics, with ordinary citizens. And one lady explains to him, "You know, Mr Bush, I work in McDonald's this morning, which has more than 200% turnover in one year, which means, on average, that people last there for half a year or less, then somewhere clean, and the shelves in one stallion." And then Bush says, "Yes, how great is this American dream, who wants to work, can succeed." Kid. A woman has to do all these trinkets to tie her back together.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u51	Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u52	Some extra work. A responsible policy must also ensure that a person has time to regenerate, as it is called, that man has free time to have, if he wants, time to bark on the moon. And that's what this is about. The European Court also asked seriously whether Uber was a carrier or not? The only country that has so far resolved this – I know this, which I am familiar with on the subject, as well as the Secretary of State and colleague – is Estonia. They're just pragmatists and they said, "Okay, but they have the same duties, not just rights as cabbies." Even so, they are not tolerable competition. I was talking to a cab driver in Vienna who switched cabs to Uber. He told me that I had to work twice as hard for the same cash — a good day, a good day. Nor is it true that taxi drivers in Slovenia agree. Now my phone's going crazy, it's going to burn. It's also a delusion that I won't use the word lying because I really don't feel like pinging with half-grown people. We can't mix all the sharing technology. I wrote about it as an assistant around 2000. At the beginning of this century, I co-organised an important workshop of the World Sociology Association, where really classes of professors, experts, came. One is if, for example, Mr Mahnič makes good wine in Dolenjska, and I, when I have time, cook very quality marmalade; you are a little exchange. This is one form of a shared economy. And we've known this shared economy in the village since the Memorial. Second. I agree with you on agriculture, but the right hand over this part of agriculture has held hands. You blew the cooperative along with the Jew. My brother and the pub from the village next door bought a woodcutter. You go, I don't know, now I have the island of Bornholm in my head, I come there, every one of you has — as we used to call it — a mechanical community. And there are tractors of the rank deutz, Renault; they're not merjotes. This is one responsible farm. Come in. Why would I take the train if I could take the car anyway?Oh, my God! Because you're polluting because you're destroying the road, externalization of costs is going on. Yeah, time's money, too. I'm taking the train. Do you know why? Because I'm better prepared than most of you, because I've been working on the train for two hours. I read these laws, because it also made me sick, even more than I used to be, in these three and a half years. I said I'd thank Janša or his private company. A gentleman from the Slovenian Democratic Party, who sits on television most often, said to me: "Do you know, because we are not actually a party, we are a private company of one person." I would like to thank the Slovenian Democratic Party for not having had an opinion on the minimum wage yesterday, but you were gone. Everyone else is here; dignity is too little, and you're something I won't say what I have at the end of my tongue. You made it clear: we don't care, it's about families. The political ideology of the Slovenian right is that lunatics will earn even less money to keep wages even lower, that the problem of inflows into the budget will be even greater, that we will eventually have more poor people; that is legal and legitimate. We live in a parliamentary constitutional democracy, a little constitutionally disputed this or a little bit more, but someone is representing these positions. I know who's lobbying for Uber in Slovenia. When you listen to Mr. Mahnich, you have the feeling that every time he says Uber, he'll get one euro in his pocket. The one you don't know, JBTZ. I don't need to talk anymore. This is also legal and legitimate if that gentleman is declared a lobbyist. It's politics, it's politics! Now, I don't want to be insulting to a Member in seat number 90, but, Jozko, why do we need Americans if we have your son, by God?Oh, my God! Why do we need it if we have a mind of our own? It's also insulting to those who work or work to keep us ass up in retirement. That's what this is about when we talk about it. That's basically what this is about. Now you're taking advantage of Magne's criticism, and I was pretty critical. Then Ljubo Žnidar slid from the rear line: “Yes, for every foreign investment, even if there are only ten jobs”, go look at the magnetogram, “we must adopt a special law.” It's called courtesy, duplicity. This must be removed from Slovenian politics after twenty-five years, if we want to move anywhere, in fact forward. Germany. In Germany there is no kind of radical left in power, unless maybe I don't know yet that Mutti Merkel has set me up there, my parents haven't told me yet; but they have banned Uber. Why is that?Oh, my God! However, the Slovenian right via German foundations, which are at the German Foreign Ministry, goes to school in Germany. I don't know if you're sitting on your ears, what are you doing?Oh, my God! Some story the proponent was also talking about, because why would you cover his expenses? Is it now the essence of the dividing economy by Mr. Mahnic that you do not have the costs covered?Oh, my God! Good morning, Slovenia. These are some things. Even natural persons. I am a bad driver, I admit, and a third of people in Slovenia are so bad drivers that they should be taken by driver. Are you going to be the Uber-drivers now?Oh, my God! And I take away your blow upon the soul, the countryside, the mountains, down; in every village, men shall we consider who shall lead whom. We should change the law when the pharmacy lobby pressured you if you had a pharmacy more than 10 kilometers away so that the doctor wouldn't have any medical supplies. And we could talk to our colleague Beznik about the Churchman, and I have a doctor, a concessionaire there because I couldn't get one in Maribor. Kangler story. And it's exactly 200 meters less than 10 kilometers, and every omika doesn't have anyone to go get her medicine. These are subjects that we should seriously discuss, at least Christian democracy, if not one man's company. But no, you're smart now in terms of – now we're a digital society, up and down. Any technology may be exploitative and exclusive; or non-exploitary and inclusive. This is the heart of the political economy. And here is the difference between the so-called right hand and others, which is also legal and legitimate in constitutional parliamentary democracy; and people will weigh. But they may say that this Duck is wearing blouses, but perhaps Jean-Mahnič is right; and then after four years they will beat their heads against the wall. But when they get here before they have to retire, like a waiter who's still in the National Assembly, and if he doesn't have anything else to do, they're gonna go buy a syringe. And this is also the heart of the political economy, and this is in fact also part of this story about the aberration of the world, which many are against, even in a lot more capitalist countries like Slovenia. But you know, in France, in Paris, you can ride with a viper from the airport, and I was driving, 120 kilometers per hour of that pussy, if time is important to you when you get crowded, up to two and a half inches. If my wife saw me, she'd rip my ears off. Public Passenger Traffic — When Did You Develop It, Who Developed It? There's a multinational coming and she's taking us down. Then why did Siemens buy a train factory in Maribor, gentlemen? Yeah, that he's ruined the competition, good day. All of Janša's generation used to read Marx, and you read it very superficially, gentlemen versus 60. If you want to go capitalism, damn it, at least let me understand it. It's about these things. And if that is the policy – why should we do something if we can do it today; for then we can close the Parliament. Then why would they make any difference?Oh, my God! Today we do what we do: one is good, one is not, one is apathetic. We're going to cash 25 million a year for the full cost of the National Assembly, and we're going to buy some kind of train. Or we give it to Uber. Public passenger transport; almost two thirds of bus transport is subsidised. How much? About 62 percent. Who gets the most money out of this – Arriva. What does it say on Arriva? Arriva by DB, German Railways, second largest global lobbyist. You've been sitting here for 25 years, some less. What did you do? You've got to be crazy smart to do this. I don't know if they're driving buses in Austria that it says – to SZ. Good afternoon, gentlemen. These are the key questions behind this. It's a political economy. This is also the heart of the National Assembly and this needs to be discussed in the next term; I hope that in another and different composition and with a lot more intelligence. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u53	Mr Jan Mahnic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u54	Thank you, Vice President. I didn't mean to come by because it doesn't make sense to argue with a gentleman who thinks he's the only adult, he's amazing, over everyone else, but we don't belong in this Parliament. I'd only fix it for two things he misquoted me about. First of all, I said how the cabbies support this marriage. That's not true. I just said that since we introduced this law, I have not heard opposition and any public calls by taxi drivers. The second is when you said the sentence in the law, which reads: “The provisions of this law do not apply to transport between natural persons or between natural persons and businesses.” It's not about espaes. For Uber a natural person cannot drive as a natural person; you must have espa, if you want to drive to Uber, you must at least have espa. However, as regards specific dictions, the provisions of this Act do not apply to the provision of transport between natural persons. What is this other than Transport.org?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u55	Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor. Prepare Mr Simon Zajc and Mr Bojan Podkoršek. Mr. Fox, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u56	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Colleagues, colleagues, distinguished representative of the Ministry, all of you, have a nice greeting! And I'm going to start with the Prime Minister of the Government, who doesn't have a problem with ethics, morality, concepts like the rule of law, but obviously with memory loss. 17. Ten. 2016, meeting of the National Assembly, oral questions. Miroslav Cerar's reply, I quote: "First of all, let me point out that the government's vision is certainly the modernisation of Slovenia. Look to the future and go into this future, step into it by adapting our development processes to what is happening in the world today, so that we can be competitive and thus increase the quality of living standards and ensure growth and development for the country." In the introduction. Then the same Dr. Miro Cerar, President of the Government: “The ministry that deals with development solutions in our country and in this sense was also, even I was there, on a visit to America when we discussed the digital development of Slovenia, the digitisation of Slovenia and Slovenia as a reference country in this area. The Ministry of Public Administration and Minister Koprivnikar has defined powers here, and he also has the role of co-ordinator of government activities in the field of digital transformation. I appointed him to this role myself, because the government urgently needs such a link; so he signed a letter of intent in the United States when he was recently there with Uber." Again, the answer to the oral question, 17. Ten. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European And then, to conclude in this pathetic way, Dr. Miroslav Cerar continues: “The fact is that Uber brings with its activity radical changes to urban mobility. It also has a positive impact on employment opportunities and overall economic development and on quality of life in general. It is currently operating in more than 500 cities in the world and, inter alia, in 21 European Union countries, once again in 21 European Union countries, i.e. the Member States of the European Union. Uber's services complement the public passenger transport system and reduce the need for private car ownership, which is crucial for the development of green and smart places for the future." In short, Dr. Miro Cerar one year ago. One year and two months later, the loss of memory among government representatives, representatives of the coalition, who talked about how to go with digital platforms, how to get into the fourth industrial revolution, and how to set an example for Europe and the wider world in the digital platform. And that is why we get such an answer from the government, which only talks about how nothing can be done; which in 2016 promises digital Slovenia in the field of transport, but does nothing. And when he promises after one year: “The Government of the Republic of Slovenia will submit a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Road Transport Act, which provides comprehensive solutions to those areas, for consideration by the National Assembly at the beginning of 2017.” Dear Ministry Representative, can we expect to be there by 13. 1. So within one month, comprehensive solutions to these areas in the National Assembly in legal form? Simple answer, you have fifteen minutes, I need five seconds of response: The government will be up to 13. 1. 2018 gave this law to the National Assembly for consideration. Kid, you're gonna do it! January, February, March. April the president of the National Assembly said we're done working; and nothing will happen! Because, once again, it is a memory loss or a signature of a certain pre-contract with a fig in his pocket. And now that we're talking about Uber, which today is some kind of curse in this room, I'm actually interested in what colleague Jan Mahnic said earlier, how many of you have used this service. If you've been using it and you're against it, then I really don't understand you. Why are you opposed to paying less for certain services instead of for a monopoly in competition, for the same service, for transport from point A to point B. Why are you opposed if you used this? But if you haven't used it, which seems to me to be the majority of those who haven't used it, why do you say you're against it if you don't know the system? I really don't understand: I'm about things I don't know, quiet or learning. When I was abroad for the first time, I think we were in Nice, and we were somewhere else with my colleague Jean Mahnic, when he told me we were going instead of taking a taxi from Nice Airport, where we paid 50 euros, we're going to see what Uber costs. 25 euros, around the corner, in a minute, you get an account, no play with rapists, and I don't know what we hear, but all the cabbies are holy men, December men or whatever; and all the nonsense you're talking about. You get an account, once cheaper, same service. But I know why you have problems with this law mainly in the left-hand sex, which is two-thirds of the National Assembly. Because it's a divisional economy. And as you imagine a divisional economy, it's pretty clear. You have a split economy in this sense: I deserve it, the state is wasting. In a normal world called 2017, and in most developed countries, this split economy is divided as follows: I work, I earn, I spend. And then we have here a call from Ambassador Desus, who says 80% will get a driver and 20% will get an Uber. Dear Member, do you see your payroll, as most Slovenians and Slovenians are likely to see? Ask them if they would be pleased to keep 80% of what they are doing; they would give 20% to their employer or country. We'd all be clapping! I also say that feudalism was great in that sense. Ten percent of the country? Each of us will sign this. Again, look at your payroll! 50% will be given to the country because we have social, yes, state health and do not know what we are still paying, despite giving 50% of our salary to the country; because we are still paying the state school system, state health care and everything else. And here's the problem; when we talk about Uber, we're talking about the arrival of a private person, something private. And as we have in law, which we will deal with tomorrow or Friday, public and private education, you have a problem here. When something goes wrong outside the monopoly, you have a problem. I don't understand. I understand that taxi drivers are against, because if you have a monopoly, someone comes in and offers you the same service for half the price, you're against; but for us as users it's great. Even if you remember when we had only one great player in the area of trade in Slovenia; and these evil foreigners were coming. Ah, they're going to destroy Slovenia. But they didn't destroy anything, every user or every citizen is happy to have the choice to go to the best, the worst or any intermediate provider. In short, in 2016, the President of the Government and the Minister of America are wasting their fake news, how they will settle the Uber area in Slovenia, one year and two months later nothing will be done, while developments in Europe and in the world continue. When my friend Jean and I were in Nice, we met at one of the gentlemen's round tables that went even further than you hoped Uber would go. Because they don't just develop smart platforms for transport, they go even further, they develop even so that cars are smart cars. Through what's called a smart phone, I'd order you a car and I'd order you a car without a driver, without a cab driver, either come or know exactly where he's waiting for you, and I'd drive you from point A to point B and pay the same, no problem. I think the Montreal thing is already working. In 2016, when Jean and I were in Nice, they had already signed contracts with certain cities. And then Jean and I were thinking on our way home to Slovenia that Uber would be a great idea, at least for Ljubljana. Otherwise, Mr Jankovic does not use the computer, the question is if he uses the Internet; but perhaps in 2016 and 2017 he would understand that he would only give his people the opportunity to be first or second in the world. And we said why offer this service only to Ljubljana if, in fact, in the global world, the whole of Slovenia is one small Ljubljana, one small town. But this government promises something, and it does something completely different. And the saddest part is that he's doing it because he's afraid of something new. I will not quote again, as Mr Miro Cerar said, how the government's vision of modernising Slovenia is. This modernisation has left only a promise of how you will one day adopt the law. And here I would also refer to certain Members who are asking Members questions about Airbnb. It's a similar thing. When my colleague Ferlug asked that question, I believed that he had serious intentions, even at two meetings we were together when we were fighting with tourists, how nice it would be. And what was the government's response? It is not possible because there are too many ministries because the problem is the Ministry of Public Administration, because the problem is the Ministry of the Interior because the problem is the Ministry of the Economy, although this is the one that has been most favoured by this idea; however, two other ministries have found that have problems with bringing what the whole world knows to Slovenia. The vice president asked the government, too, for his own coalition. And I understand that as one of the young Members himself, he probably has a suitcase full of what ministry officials say most of the time – her, Minister, can't, and that's really something new. Why would we be the first or the second, let's be the last. But after we're done, there's gonna be a new platform. And it's the same here. While we, bouu, fear Uber, as has already been said, go abroad with ideas one step ahead; not only smart platforms, but already smart cars. However, we dream about the vision and strategy of 2030-2050. Perhaps just one mecca of how seriously this government is dealing with modernisation and 2030. When you're talking about electric cars in 2030, I'm going to say, given that I'm also supposed to be in the energy lobby, we need not only one new nuclear power plant in Krske, but two of them like now, or one thousand 200 megawatts just to be able to have electric cars in 2030 because we're going to be fancy because we're going to be modern and we're going to be first in Europe after the Prime Minister. But does anyone think about it in the same ministry, otherwise certain other people, what do we need? In the meantime, we have such a simple legal dictatorship, which is very clear, which speaks, who can, how to exercise control, and what fines if someone violates this law; we get another opinion from the Government – we will prepare comprehensive solutions. What comprehensive solutions if it is a simple solution?Oh, my God! The only comprehensive solution that would be is that today the law goes forward in the first reading and if necessary, because the ministry has a lot of problems to add to these articles that are here. I'm sure the Legal and Legal Service will also have some opinions. There are no problems in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group that this amendment, which would make the legal platform more effective, would then be easier to go into practice. And to finish slowly; I hear that four organizations are against. If they're migrants against it, I could say that I'd be almost against it, but since they're migrants, they have to first get certain documents to be in the country and then they can get espies. Can anyone just get it?Oh, my God! Or migrant workers. Then three other socialist societies, if they're against, I don't have any problem if they're against something new, against everything that smells private. And when we talk about fine jobs, we don't shoot people here, or we don't hold the gun for them to do it now. No, no, no. If a person decides that working hours at work allow him to do something else in the afternoon, such as farmers or small - work households or to do something other than work in the dark, if they have the option, if they meet conditions that are very precise, why not give him a chance. I don't think anyone would take that chance would think: oh, well, I'm a criminal worker. He'd just say, uh, how much more can I get in my wallet, so I can spend it out of that wallet. This is a key question that will be asked by everyone who will decide on this system. I will conclude slowly with one article, 25 / 1 Seven. 2017, which discusses how modern they are. And when we see the health system collapse, the address — Uber for medical transport: “In the United States, 3.6 million patients do not receive regular medical examinations every year because they do not have proper transportation. The Startup Circulation from Boston was established in partnership between the children's hospital there and globally successful companies for the rental of Uber.» It says here the children's hospital. I believe that many of you Members would have the question of whether this is a state hospital or a private hospital. And if it's a matter of state, I'd say, okay, then it's still going to work; if it's a private matter, don't let God do it. And the system works. American patients are pleased. But this is just one of the continuations in modernisation in this area, which, at least in words, was also set up by the President of the Government, and in action it is in concrete dispossessed, not only does he do nothing. Destroy what he says in his words. I think it's a very good proposal for a law that comes from practice. You're mostly opposed to him by those who have no idea about this practice, who you've only heard some evil stories about how this system doesn't work. Dearly beloved, I suggest that before you press the “against” button, ask the people who have already had the opportunity to use Uber, and let them tell you their experience as to whether the bill is good or bad, whether the service of Uber is good or bad. And then your decision will probably be completely diametric to what your experts wrote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u57	We've got a procedure. Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would like you to point out to my esteemed colleague Tomaž Lisco that I did not provide some information here maliciously, but because there is clearly no copy of my discussion, I would say that I was talking about Uber, what his business means by visa from the point of view of the user, what it means from the point of view of the driver and what it means from the point of view of taxi drivers. I said that from the driver's point of view, it means that 80% of the payment for transport is paid by the driver and 20% by Uber. Just this fact that I read from your proposal. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u59	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat. If you agree, I'd gradually reclassify yours as a replica. I think you've already answered Mr. Tomaž Lisco. We've got another procedural one. Dr. Franz Duck, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. I listened very carefully. Mr Lisec said "you have no idea". Which is not true. Our oldest colleague, even one of the wisest among us, gave a very vivid dimension to Uber. I expect the gentleman to apologize to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u61	I've got another procedural one. Mr Trček, I hope we will have an answer to your initiative. Here you go, Mr. Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u62	I would gradually suggest that Mr Trček speaks about the subject, especially to listen to what the rest of us are saying, because I just said that the problem is that those who have not experienced it are talking about it. And if Mrs Popotat has experienced Uber and if her journey has negative effects that she used Uber, then I will apologize to her. In another case, however, I expect Mr Trček not to abuse procedural ones in order to have people apologize to him for thinking what he should think. Let him think for himself, and I'll think for myself, and when I feel the need, I'll be happy to apologize. I can't feel it this time.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u63	Mr. Franz Runczek, you have a procedure, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u64	I hope you're listening to us. I don't abuse procedure. He literally said, "You have no idea." [[advertising from the hall]] You literally said "you have no idea", you can check in the magnetogram; so I expect an apology. The logic of this – what someone has not done must not talk about it; I have never taken cocaine unlike the junior Slovenian Democratic Party, but I know that cocaine is problematic. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u65	Mr Franz Trček, I would avoid any debate that is not part of today's agenda. I would still invite everyone to continue with the debate and with the agenda. Anybody else want to add anything? I guess not. If you don't mind, I'd like to give the floor to Mr Simon Rabbit. Then let Mr Bojan Podkoršek and Mr Jernej Vrtovec be prepared. Mr. Zajc, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. I would like to say a few things myself about this law, but first perhaps one introduction, to make the final conclusion that I am about to make more clear. The fact is that the transport world is also changing – taxis of transport, occasional transport, line transport; also because new platforms, such as the Uber platform and similar ones, are coming in, and I think they are welcome. That is why I have also asked the Minister of Infrastructure on several occasions when we are going to make adjustments to our arrangements so that these platforms can work for us as well. On the basis of these discussions, I somehow expected that we would be considering the government law in December, and I think that something like this was planned, which was supposed to come to the National Assembly in December 2017. Unfortunately it is not, so today we are considering the law from the Slovenian Democratic Party. As for platforms like Uber, I see quite a few positive things. One of the positive things is that in this way it is also very well cared for by the quality of services. Every time you use this service, you evaluate the driver, the same driver evaluates the customer, so that the drivers know when they confirm a transport, the person you are facing. We know that these transports also cause unpleasantness, even homicides, as far as unpleasant or unadapted transport subscribers are concerned. In both directions this app cares about some quality service, which I think is a very good thing, because people want to know what we're going to pay for, who we're going to order. You can’t, in principle, check this in other transports so well and so visually. The second thing that I think is important to the country is that there is no cash business. Everything goes through credit cards, which means that everything can be very well supervised, that there is no payment at hand, that there is no failure to issue bills, that this service is not passed by taxes, which is still a big problem in Slovenia, even when we are talking about taxis. Although we do have tax registers, many of these cash registers are not used as they should be; you have to ask for an account in particular. It's always thought to be something that doesn't come out. Third thing. Slovenia is a tourist destination. In much of the world, people are used to such services, and from this point of view this is an additional plus point for Slovenia as a destination so that they can use services that are practically used anywhere in the world at home. I think it is right that Slovenia joins in this way and that we are also giving this opportunity to our visitors as an increasingly desirable tourist destination. The next good thing is, the client knows in advance which way she'll go and how much she'll pay for it. And on that basis, you make a decision — yes or no. Prices vary according to supply and demand in this service, which I personally find to be a very good thing. When we talked about surveillance, here I should agree with Ambassador Mahník that the control of Uber's drivers in Slovenia would be sufficient, of course if we have to change this dictatorship of yours. Because of the fact that a natural person drives, even if Uber requires Espe to drive for them, this law is written not only for Uber but also for similar platforms; and we do not know how it is for everyone else. But if we are talking about Uber using drivers with licenses, then we have full control over everything; over paid contributions, we have control because there is no cash business, including taxes. The controls offered by such platforms are sufficient or even better than what we have today. This is also one of the reasons why I personally support such platforms. But I see two problems in this marriage. The first is that the law for now — we will see what will happen to it — stipulates that even natural persons can carry out these transports. Of course, there are some additional protective devices, or additional conditions, regarding the penalty points concerning the young driver. But we also need to look at this problem from the point of view of unfair competition. If all others who provide transport services must have certain licences, this means that they must be responsible, they must have completed national qualifications examinations; then I think that those who drive through this platform must also meet the same conditions. I don't think this should be a problem for us. I think that would be fair to those who are already using. In this way, Uber would essentially be what he really is and what makes me feel good. Because anyone who goes into transportation or any other business — where is your biggest problem? The biggest problem is getting customers. Pick up your client; of course, he takes his commission. If this law or government – now I don't know when it will come, if it will – we create Uber using carriers or people who have a license to do so, then Uber is the one who very effectively connects the customer to someone who performs this service. The problem with this marriage is that I think you've opened the wrong article. I don't know if what I'm talking about can be solved in this article. I will consider this by tomorrow's vote. If I can see that it's possible or if you can convince me, I'll give my support to this marriage. Otherwise, I expect the government to really get it in January. But like I said, if this law can be amended so that only those with licenses can drive, then why not.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u67	Before we proceed, we have a replica. Mr Jan Mahnic, then I will give you my word as a representative of the proposer. Replica, here you go, Mr. Duck.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. I've asked for it before. I am quite calm on which you are in the Slovenian Democratic Party, and you are checking yourself, even if you want a "medipal", after which you are famous. Let's be serious! It's a split economy. It was an obvious one. The divisive economy is the heart of the left and of the socialist agenda, but a divisive economy in the way of solidarity and justice. What a shared economy the Slovenian Democratic Party and someone else represents, but you have shown Teš 6 well somewhere else in 25, 26 years of parliamentary history in Slovenia. The divisive economy that you want to introduce here; and it is obvious here that at least in the work of the Modern Centre Party, the only problem is who will propose it first, but it is. I work, like that case from Vienna, twice as much as I used to, for the same money; the boss deserves it. The divisive economy you are proposing is absolutely offensive to citizens and citizens, particularly young people. What kind of kid would I need Uber if we had, I don't know, Yoshik's son if I had my son and there's an ex-Iscre in Kranj who knows how to program these things?Oh, my God! Why would we give 20% to a foreigner if we could organise such things as a cooperative?Oh, my God! When we're seriously discussing moving in time and space, you need to talk about it, not only how you get to the mountain, but how the mountain gets to you, how the services get to you. And we can talk about telemedicine, gerontotechnologies and other things, because he likes to do a little bit in half – I can't say anything else or quote what Mr. Tank says, quote, “stupid” about a whole series of things. If we proposed such legislation, it would be with great pleasure and with all its expertise to amend it. We obviously now have a policy to prevent SMC, SDS, that we will give a few ten million to a German logistics company to organise a bad network of inter-national public passenger transport and exploit bus drivers, while at the same time we will literally talk over the local minds; the key is the people's domestic minds. You will draw Uber in, that people will work twice as hard for the same or even lower wages; and that is the essence of it. This is, of course, legal, legitimate, you have the right to such a political line, front to keep going. However, I hope that citizens and citizens and the rest of the political spectrum are so smart that we do not support such harmful legislative proposals. That's basically the whole story. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u69	Mr Jan Mahnic, representative of the proposer, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u70	Thank you, Vice President. On what Mr Simon Zajc has said, which is the only one who has so far debated as someone who has not a priori supported the law, the only one who has completely rationally debated with concrete arguments and data. Two things, Simon, I agree with that, Uber is the one looking for the client, and that's essential. I have enough to call Metro, Laguna, Interex, anyone, send me a cab, please, to Kotnikov's to take a cab to the National Assembly. Five minutes, I can always hear it - five minutes, if it comes in three minutes or twenty minutes or if it's not at all. It's always five minutes. Now at least in Metro they've improved a little bit because they have an app and you actually see where the cab is, when it's about to come. And the cab knows if you sign in, where you're going, where it's supposed to take you. And that's what Uber's all about. The cab driver sees it from the beginning, using a GPS signal that his cell phone detects where he's picking you up and where he's taking you, so someone knows the streets, the places, the cities, they don't even need to. If I understood Mr Rabbit correctly, then perhaps in another reading – and we are prepared to do so – there should be a change in this direction in order to say: “The provisions of this law do not apply to transport between natural persons and an undertaking which can carry out transport activities under this law.” It is said that not only can a natural person do this, but those who have licenses, companies with licenses; these are already examples, as we know them now, taxi drivers. And that's why we designed the law so that taxi drivers could drive. But by putting it in, and we're willing to put it out, if that was one of the main arguments that the law would later go through, to intercede transport between natural persons. In this regard, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that this solves the legal issue of the Transport.org website.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u71	Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor. Prepare Mr. Daniel Krivec and Mr. Mark Ferrug. Mr. Underpants, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u72	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, thank you for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State, a nice greeting on my behalf as well! I think that there is no reason in this law that we have proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party for Uber's arrival in Slovenia to accuse ourselves in any way or in any other way, but I do not want to expose anyone now. Mr Zajc's discussion was considered, not because he was probably a little close to this law or because he was talking about some of the articles in which he also doubted; but in fact he took a deep look at this proposal for a law. Surely this Uber did not grow on the grassroots of the Slovenian Democratic Party, what we heard today in this national assembly. It's just that it hasn't been heard that Uber can't go to Slovenia because Melanie Trump was born Slovenian. I don't think it's right, the kind of debate we're hearing. The fact is that the objective is only one, and this was confirmed by the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia one year ago. On this subject, he stated that employment opportunities and broader economic development are here to complement public passenger transport in order to seek development solutions in this area. However, what encouraged the Slovenian Democratic Party is the following, since the President of the Government said a year ago that it was a matter of course to enter. We firmly believe that this law, which should have already been submitted last year by the government or the ministry, enters too carefully and moves back to the end of the mandate. If Members and Members of this National Assembly were to wait for the government, there would be no such law in the National Assembly. Let me just say that I haven't used this before, but I'm always ready to learn to see how things are going. The fact is that this system is used in over 500 cities around 21, 22 countries in the European Community. Slovenia is now not a pioneer or in the Slovenian Democratic Party to prepare and support something that is not yet in the world. The fact is also that the task of all of us, no matter where we sit, on the left or right, is in my mind the representatives of the government to enable our citizens and citizens to make life as easy as possible. This is not so much a problem in larger cities, where taxis with multiple companies are probably not the problem in which one family or citizens pay for this; however, the fact that the Republic of Slovenia is not only Ljubljana or Maribor is more small cities, and in particular I am thinking about rural areas. Since I have learned how this is happening in neighbouring countries or in European cities, world cities, it is also very important to know that the price of these services is significantly cheaper than we have in Slovenia so far. I'm not going to argue that that's why any of these companies are going to fail. But the fact is that it is our job to bring this service, which is cheaper, closer to our citizens and citizens. This is the mission of all of us. I have spoken many times in this National Assembly about who lives the most difficult or the worst in the Republic of Slovenia. A four - member family in which both husband and wife are employed and children attend kindergarten or school; this family lives the hardest. In addition, it has to buy two cars, and most of the time it is not the hardest; it is the hardest thing to maintain these two cars. I am convinced as a non-expert that with the arrival and implementation of this law, which we are proposing in the Slovenian Democratic Party, perhaps not possible, probably which of these families will no longer need two cars. Once again, we do not all live in big cities, we do not all live in Ljubljana, Kranj, Maribor or Koper; we also live in smaller places, and in particular many citizens and citizens live in rural areas. Many times it is easy for us to speak from these seats in the National Assembly, which is very difficult to do in practice, very difficult to do in remote places. I therefore once again call on all of you, fellow Members of the State Secretary and those who are engaged in the Republic of Slovenia in this area, not to reject this proposal, because the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry, spoke about it last year. Our sincere intention, however, is to speed up what was not done last year. I am sure that there is no problem in any article if something has to be added or withdrawn, because it will be in the best interests of this law and, above all, for the benefit of complementing public passenger transport in the Republic of Slovenia; in particular, that certain matters relating to transport links will be brought closer to citizens and citizens in order to make it easier for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u73	We have three more panellists to report. Let me read all three. Mr Daniel Krivec has the floor; Mr Marko Ferluga and Ljubo Žnidar are to be prepared. Mr. Guilty, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings to all your friends and friends! Obviously, we have one more problem with the fact that the law that has been introduced is good and brings some added value; but the proposaler is obviously wrong again. This is because the government obviously cannot do its job well, despite the promises of ministers, especially Minister Koprivnik and Prime Minister of the Government, that the law will be in the process before the end of this year. This has not happened, so we have also tabled a proposal for a law that solves this problem. The fact is that there is a lot going on in this area, and we are probably all aware that a similar activity is already taking place, but to a large extent it is happening as a black work. You probably all know certain websites where you can already order individual transports, not to talk about exchange between students, but not only among students, but among all users who are able to respond to some call for transport in a certain direction. However, there is no legal regime, none of which controls it, but it does so to a large extent, allowing some normal transport to people who do not have the possibility of public transport, nor are they able to buy their own means of transport. This proposal regulates this subject in some way also in a legal sense. I must say, a few speakers correctly summed things up. We are aware that it is possible to complete individual articles of the law, but we do not close our eyes to the fact that this issue is still very current at the moment. All these questions about how a matter can be played or broken by principles are the same in the case of taxi drivers, where everything is prescribed, and things are not going as well as they would like. We have a similar story in the area of Airbnb, where, I must say, in the coalition, at least by some Members, a lot of calls and pressure on the government to resolve the matter. It is a similar thing, a similar approach, where the possibility of a business relationship and the possibility of survival can be offered to others in this space. This area is governed by 19 laws. 19 laws regulate this, but still things are going on, probably to a large extent in black; but the fact is that this is happening. It wouldn't make sense if we closed our eyes and didn't. Just as in the field of transport, where Uber would do this service, or as a colleague of Trček has done, to create this within Slovenia on the basis of our intelligence and knowledge; we do not have a problem with this, but we need to establish a legal basis, which is what we are doing with this bill. The fact is that these platforms in Europe are also more effective to enable the user to have significantly better access to a service, and given the fact that this coalition is still boasting that some new initiatives need to be followed, that costs need to be alleviated by users and so on, it is in some ways quite surprising that when such a law comes to pass, we face such great opposition. Also, colleague Trček, whom I respect, always speaks of the need to introduce some new approaches in terms of allowing some public transport which is virtually gone in Slovenia, this is his theory, and I am surprised that when there is some improvement in this area, this a priori rejects and sees no advantage in this. Colleagues who have experienced this in practice would probably know a lot of you, too, to confirm that the matter is certainly good and that, by appropriate regulation, it also provides adequate control, as colleagues from the SMC have explained nicely. So the fear that some new technologies are being introduced in our country is not clear. Minister Koprivnikar, I think, said something similar that the solutions are actually already made, are on the table literally, and we can't get around them. So his theory is that if there are some good things in practice in other countries, they will need to be introduced in our area more than ever. Uber also has an advantage in that there is no limit simply for Uber, as there is a possibility for some taxi services that are connected to a microlocation, and also from this point of view this value is a great addition. Above all, because this coalition is talking a lot about tourism being the advantage and future of this country, and on the other hand such platforms are rejecting, because such a platform can make it significantly easier to walk across our country, and especially access to our country, mainly from some airports at our border, which do not have any public transport to our country. It is therefore incomprehensible to interpret some of the restrictions or contradictions to this law, which could be passed on to complement it with all the concerns you have, but all of us who have been in this House for a long time know that no law solves all the anomalies, so also taxi drivers are not “a fine look” and will be the same in the case of some providers of similar platforms as this law allows. It's always a matter of control that later has to control and eliminate those who exploit the system. So I hope that some common sense will continue to prevail and that we will let this law go into another reading, where it can still be substantially refined at the professional level. But it is as your minister said, it is foolish to look away when some things are already in fact and are being implemented in the country, at this point in time in black, and with some marriage proposal we only improve and settle things, and in no case do we make things worse. So I hope that common sense will prevail in all of us, including in the coalition.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u75	Mr Marko Ferruga has the floor to prepare Mr Ljubo Žnidar. Mr. Ferruga, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u76	Thank you for your word. Greetings to the Secretary of State and my colleague and everyone else, of course! We don't have some unique stuff on this topic, and it's not all black and it's not all white. He took very well the things that are close to me, Simon, why this Uber is good. Another issue is that where this so-called divisive economy, as well as the principles of France before, is viewed and perceived very differently. Here is a very thin line of perception of the shared economy as really some additional social aid for everyone with whom you can help yourself, and a shared economy, which is being used by larger companies or others for so-called capitalist wealth. This is where he always comes across with this look. Once we define this – and this is happening both in these transports and in the previously mentioned Airbnb, because in fact, when people start serving it and set a smart limit here, what it means to serve or just to do as a supplement, it is very important that we then clarify how and what to define by law. Even earlier, I should have poured my ashes and what was said earlier that Mr Koprivnikar had signed this letter of intent with Uber. Why? What prompted this case not to go forward, why didn't the Ministry of Public Administration hand it over to the Ministry of Infrastructure? They'll probably clear this up between themselves in the government. If I go back another step – and here Mr Trček had a very interesting discussion a while ago about what our sustainable vision of transport is. Otherwise we have it, this strategy and this mobility strategy, all together, but public integrated passenger transport, intermodality and so on and so on, and so on, it's somehow very easy to integrate into this Uber if we look at these things and put them in some smart connotations. And what Mr Krivec has already said, with some real control, control can be achieved. That these laws will be perfect – they will never; that these same laws will interfere with the multitude of laws, is true, we are here in Slovenia probably, and probably someone else in the world master, when we have one topic that relates to 10 of these laws – this is also the problem of Airbnb, which I have been dealing with for a while. I tell you, things are very simple in life, but when we start doing this legal-formal acrobatics here with this legislation, it gets complicated that you actually have to have a prescription to pull water after you leave the toilet. That's the extreme we're taking. There was also a speech earlier, as Mr Horvat said, that we already have in Slovenia, which we could be proud of, and on the basis of which we could develop, we already have these platforms, I will say, traffic and so on. Transportation org., The Institute of Passengers is one of such very, I will say, socially sensitive matters, GoOpti is one of such highly sophisticated and market-oriented. So we already have these things here. How are they, if this is all arranged, if this is all under control, here you can ask. I think that the vast majority of us use we have transports and Uberje, until recently I also had a taxi yandex.ru up, so that whoever uses it understands this concept. How this is legal, however, is a big question and it should be possible to hand the ball over to the Ministry and the ministry should somehow take this more seriously. If we want to be – and I am a proponent of this – such a small flexible, tourist-oriented country is one of the things we should be dealing with. If we are talking about these traffic spikes, all the things that drive everything on the road, the big transit traffic, the huge congestion, it is one of the elements with which we can actually take steps forward. If that's what we want, of course, and if we've somehow cleared it up in our heads. Here is always what I see and in the ministries and somehow general public opinion to perceive, as czech, the change is still in the heads of the mind – God forbid anyone to start serving further. But why, why? If this is regulated, if this is under some control, and today at this time of digitisation, when we know that almost always there are these wi-fi spots, points where they could be, and that these accounts are actually issued through the computer, that you are paying with credit cards or any other card; it is said that more or less everything is misleading. If this is well arranged and, of course, also the tax separation and, of course, the registration of all these matters, as regards the vehicle, as regards the status of the person who is – I do not see the problem here. But I see the problem with this scrupulousness of our bureaucracy, and I have also thought in the ministries that they are responding too slowly to these rapid changes and impulses that give rise to new trends in the world. If we're going to defend ourselves on all the weights of this, then it's best to get in the pit and stay in the cave and beg for light or when the lightning strikes to open. I don't understand that anymore. Things like Airbnb and Uber are advanced, of course, by regulating them to be controlled, to be legally defined as necessary. And when the rules of the game are known, then it is clear what someone has to do to be able to deal with it, and what will happen if it does not; will be punished, the license will be withdrawn and so on. Slovenia is at one point, I will say, a turning point, because indeed everyone warns that there are transports, even in Ljubljana, which is the capital and it is already concentrated, three quarters of the working population is already in Ljubljana, because it is so, unfortunately, although many of us are also fighting for this to be a little decentralised, and so that in other regions someone can get a job that is as a ministry and so on and so on, but I will not give it away now. But I'm not for some very handiwork move, reckless. Yeah, we'll always have some people who won't agree. Yeah, I know the cabbies won't like it, but the cabbies have war between them anyway. If anyone was in Brno, he knows exactly that you see an offer there from 20 euros to 50 euros, and we are not even talking about those who literally reach Ljubljana for 100 euros and more. [[…]] Even among taxi drivers, everything is not clean and healthy and, as Daniel said, all the regulations and all these anomalies are happening. If we want to be an advanced country – and I really want to – if we want to be like Estonia, I think that Simon and France are thinking in this direction of mobility, a trend that is in the world, that it is wise to approach these initiatives. I am sorry that this ministry, although I think that this has been said several times by the Minister, that it should be by the end of the year, otherwise we are now at the end of the year practically prepared by the Ministry, but colleagues have done their part. [[…]] The initiative, I think, is positive and, as far as I am concerned, I am also a supporter of such matters, because we must move forward, of course, with clearly defined things such as control, control and legal definitions, which must be such that they are simple. Because it's only at Airbnb when they tell us how many problems there are on all sides and all the legislation, it's easier for a person to actually broadcast in black and this is happening in a lot. Here I am surprised by the attitude of the state and of the Ministry of Finance itself, and by the Ministry of Finance itself, to let these things go to waste, into the sky, instead of picking up what we are doing, and the donkeys have to break up with some people, so that at least some of the country will get this supplement, let us leave it all in the air, and I do not agree with it. So these suggestions are interesting. I would like to have creative cooperation with the Ministry, that this matter has been made in some way, to become even more operational, if necessary, and to move forward. But I know they're going to stand up on one side or the other. But I think that's to say hello. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u77	Mr Jan Mahnic, representative of the proposer, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u78	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Another rational and positive opinion from colleague Ferluge. He was using these apps, platforms, and he knows how it works and that there are positive experiences. Only two things; he mentioned short and reckless moves. That is why we have only amended one article and thus put it into first reading so that the matter can be corrected in the second reading. However, as far as the question of the divisional economy is concerned, I think, even though things sound complicated, but, if we are talking about this case in particular, the matter must be clear. [[…]] The matter must be clear in this direction that the following conditions are: that you have private property, of course, which is a prerequisite and you must have it, that you can do the matter at all, that you must have a business, that everything must be in accordance with the law, that all taxes and contributions must be paid, and that we must also provide for possible negative consequences in the law in some way and also legally regulate them in some way, which we give by not doing so by young drivers, that they must be protected for passengers. In fact, here is the issue of criminal points. We know that someone transports a red light, immediately gets the penalty points, which is, of course, right because he violates road traffic regulations, but still, someone who has two, three criminal points – we could then talk about this in the second reading, whether it really makes sense to go in as tight as we have, say, now in the first reading, that they should not be carrying out transports. Since we know you're being a little careless, you'll get the penalty points fast. I also hope to hear the government's opinion, 15 minutes as far as they report it. However, I cannot understand if we leave the Government, if there is one way of listening to New Slovenia, the SDS, also obviously, as far as I have heard Members who have discussed, from SMC, even SMC, but I do not understand that part there, let's say a soft one, but to the hard left, Desus, SD and the left side. But that's their goal. Do not let anyone earn anything, and if we follow this mantra, obviously we can only wait — I don’t know how else to remember — when you’ll get on the cryptocurrency. This has not yet been opened in this national assembly. Just two cases, if I can tell you all you're talking about bitcoin. [[…]] I'll give you two other cryptocurrencies, one is Ripple, the other is Iconomi. Ripple has grown over 70 in a good year, Iconomi, but it's a Slovenian company, and in one year it's almost 20. Imagine that someone last year invested 10,000 euros in cryptocurrency and now has 700,000 euros in good year. Look at the turbo-capitalists we're creating. But it's a market economy, so let's give people a chance to make money. Each person is responsible enough to handle his own money as well as his own private property. If he can market it, let's leave this ingenuity to the people.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u79	Mr. Ljubo Žnidar, as the last one, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! See, in the very explanations of the law we have shown cases from abroad on purpose, we have shown examples of bad practices that are being encountered in the countries where Uber was introduced. Today, it has been heard from the debate that the Slovenian Democratic Party is introducing a multinational into Slovenia and so on and so on. In short, it's not like that. In fact, governments, where they have such and different problems in the transport system in other countries, are aware and have made it clear that the Uber system cannot be avoided, cannot prevent, can not be excluded; it can be limited, but cannot be completely disabled or put aside. It is also important to be aware of this in Slovenia. And this is our thinking that we need to deal with the problem or with some novelty, but not to put things under carpets, as the ministry said today, that there will be no such thing in Slovenia, that we will not deal with it, that we are not able to do it and so on. That's not the way. There are two options in Slovenia: either to be invited into this application business in the field of transport of someone who is already carrying out such activity or to complete this business ourselves. The proposal also goes in this direction, so that we can go into this business and finish it ourselves. We have good and bad experience, and in Slovenia we will not be able to avoid this application business in the field of transport. In short, this needs to be taken into account, and this work needs to be done in order to make this modern, modern business that is good for every user — it needs to be realized — so that we can get it to such an extent that we control it. See, it has been said many times today, yes, because in Slovenia, Uber is already under other names and works. We know transports.si, transports.org, but I don't know what else, GoOpti and so on. Do we control these things, control them, or comply with all the laws? What will you say here? It's a question, isn't it? We don't know. We don't know because we haven't dealt with this stuff yet. But I think it's the Ministry of Infrastructure's job to do this too, not just to put it under the rug and say, yes, it's not for us, it's too much competition in Slovenia, taxi competition and so on. Look, it's speaking to the one who doesn't do this work and isn't ready to step in with modern technology. It is also necessary to understand what a cooperative economy is. The concept of ownership is becoming increasingly different. I'll give you an example. In the northern European countries where they spend the whole year on vacation for a longer period of time, for the time they go on vacation, for three weeks or a month, for the time being, the house is broadcasting, their property is broadcasting – this is a collaborative economy in the field of tourism. Here the owner and the country benefit; the owner, because he earned something with it, and the country, because in the field of tourism has recorded more nights and more visits. This is a cooperative economy. Look, if I go back to transports, we all own cars. These cars are used from 10 to 30 %, on average between 10 and 30 %. The rest of these cars, which are of very high value, are untapped. And if we add all the maintenance for a lifetime to this cost, we give a lot more for transportation than a one-family house or apartment. Do your math! And, of course, it is rational, meaningful to count in this direction that transports should be cheap. This is our thinking and this is our suggestion with this proposal of this law that a collaborative transport economy is actually introduced for the benefit of every citizen or for anyone who benefits from transport. That's what this whole transport segment is saying to be cheap. The fact is that in fact new technologies and new receptions are cheaper are more competitive. I see no problem that even taxi drivers could not be included in this part of this cooperative economy in the field of transport, but rather that they should be put up as pure competition. These are examples of bad practices that have proved abroad that this is not the case, but actually all under the same conditions. But this business needs to be completed with a legal basis. But we can't avoid it. Tomorrow this system of modern transport will also work in Slovenia, if we adopt the legal basis or not, it will work half-black. What we also have is a legal basis, and we know how it is with control and so on and how it is to actually comply with existing legislation. We can't exactly boast that we're good here, but that we're very good at handling things. Even with new technologies, the system of control will be even easier. I think it'll make the control system easier. I'm not talking so much about physical control, actually stopping on the roads and so on. I'm talking about control through apps and through modern digital systems. This can all be arranged. Just like paying taxes. Even there, if we have a foundation, a good foundation, a good modern application, there will be no or less likely to avoid taxes if we control things. The worst thing is if we don't do it and there's anarchy in this area. That's the worst. Look, any news, even if we don't like it, we have to do it, we have to complete it, or we have to control it, from the start, and then we have to do it, either finish it, or we have to finish it, or we have to finish it, or we have to finish it. Of course, if this is positive, if it brings a more rational, cheaper journey for everyone, even for those who very difficult to get to a doctor and so on, for the older population, for the younger population – at weekends there is a lot of transit between the capital and the other parts of the Republic of Slovenia – this is welcome. To conclude, these things are worth going to because they will bring something positive both for the young and for the middle generation as well as for the elderly. Well, this thing isn't for the carpet, but it needs to be handled. Of course, in the Slovenian Democratic Party we propose that this is the beginning. It can also improve, it adds, it's a start, it's an incentive, it's a foundation. On this we need to build and enable our citizens in the Republic of Slovenia to actually get cheaper transports.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u81	Thank you to all the debaters. We are moving on to the conclusion of the general debate, in which the representative of the Government and the representative of the proposer will be given the floor. Did anyone else want it? Am I? [[…]] Okay, so first you get the word. Mag. Klemen Potisek, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u82	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! First, I would like to point out that the government can comment on what it receives on the table. The position that I said at the outset is the result of a review of the draft law that we have received from the Government. I would like to point out that the proposal by the proposer is that this amendment to the Road Transport Act, the platforms that offer transport, essentially what they propose, suggests that these platforms are not subject to the Road Transport Act. [[…]] It's a basic bill. And they do not deal with the questions that the applicant later referred to. It is solely a suggestion that the law on information platforms is not applicable. Nor does this proposal speak of how the data will be exchanged with the Financial Administration, how this news will be monitored. I would like to stress here further that the Ministry has been very intensive in preparing legal bases and possible solutions in the autumn of last year. We have worked hard on this, and I must say that these matters have actually stopped, the process that will then bring the law into this room, because several procedures have been initiated against the Uber. And Uber was actually an innovator in this area. Two proceedings are pending before the European Court of Justice, in particular the question whether this service is an information society service or a transport service. This is case C-320/16. And then we have another case of C-371/17. In the first case, the Advocate General has already identified that it is a transport service, so to speak, we are talking about transport, not just an information platform. This means that the intermediary must take over – an intermediary such as Uber – the role of the carrier. This, however, puts him — and this is what we say at the European level — in a different position than it has been so far. This is also important because then it is his duty, his responsibility, his obligation to act in the same way as other actors in transport. This means that all competitors on the market have equal conditions and competition cannot be distorted because all are subject to the same rules. We expect the decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union by the end of this year. You know that the adoption, the preparation of every law, is difficult. It is very embarrassing, if you adopt a law, in the meantime you have new, extremely important elements, such as the judgments of the European Court of Justice. You may even allow something in the meantime and then you have to ban it and then, I'll say, the state or the government is actually not serious. In other words, we expect a judgment by the end of the year, and this will, in fact, be the starting point for all countries in the European Union, how to determine how to resolve these matters. Slovenia is not a lonely island in this respect, and all other countries are actively engaged in it, as are we. I would point out that it has already been mentioned that there is an example of good practice from Estonia. It is true, and this is also the only case where information platforms for transport, transport organisation such as Uber, have been organised at national level. There is no other country where this country would otherwise have regulated it. These matters are actually used and are regulated elsewhere only at the city level and they also work there. I say, as we say, the case of Estonia is also welcome because Estonia See, the Estonians had to make an extraordinary effort and these arrangements between platform providers and, say, taxi drivers have taken place for a very long time and have actually come to the result of peaceful coexistence, where they have managed to agree that the same conditions apply to all. That's essential. This is why the matter in Estonia is working. I'd like to highlight this. The ministry responsible for transport is, from the point of view of it, the first thing we support, we encourage, is public passenger transport, not private transport, and therefore we have also joined the integrated public passenger transport project that started last September, the upgrade was in January this year and the matter is working. [[…]] Integrated public passenger transport is nothing more than an information platform. It is said that the Ministry is aware that information platforms exist and also introduce them. I must say, as far as co-use and co-ownership are concerned, the emperor was mentioned as being a Sharon. Absolutely, look, but it's up to us to get rid of this thought, to own cars, and to drive around with a car. That's not true! Public passenger transport is a great solution, car sharing is a great solution and is also possible. As an example of good practice, and of domestic practice, I wanted to give an example that was taken from me by Mr Horvath, but I did not know that you know this case better than I do, so I will not continue to do so. The next case would be Avant2Go. Avant2Go supported the ministry, because it is also an information platform, the comprehensive solution and responsibilities of Avant2Go are clear. It's about sharing vehicles. As far as the data chains are concerned, so far we have seen a trend in energy development and less in transport, and I believe that the technology of the data blocks will also come into this part. [[…]] Of course, this novelty reopens many questions in terms of cybersecurity, data privacy, data ownership. I mean, some adjustments, regulations will be needed, and not only in Slovenia, as I reiterate, but elsewhere in Europe, because in data block technology, in fact, all countries are still very in doubt about how they will handle this. Also, what role, what place will the data block chains take, where they will stand, among which market participants. Maybe just for the end. Yeah, it was promised we'd sort things out. Truthfully, we have 30 articles prepared and we are waiting only for the judgment of the European Court, which we would like to get acquainted with so that we can give the law to the public hearing scheduled for January. There we will deal with part of the area of public passenger transport, the issue of taxi drivers and the issue of car rental with the driver. This is the part that would also be the most interesting in view of today's debate. Of course, we, too, would like to emphasise that we cannot bring this law to the door of Parliament, we cannot put it into procedure as long as this proposal is up to date. I hope I've explained everything. In short, things are in preparation, otherwise this proposal that we have received and such as this, of course, cannot be supported by the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u83	Mr Jan Mahnic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u84	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Yeah, I just heard what I expected to hear from the government. However, somehow it gives me hope – Uroš, healthy – that in view of the heard support of the idea of a divisional economy in the field of transport, or specifically for the Uber platform on the side of New Slovenia, SDS, the work of SMC. I believe that if we somehow drank together only the dictates of the articles or only the dictates of this law, if we do not go through this experiment, but that it is in another, but definitely this part of the middle and right here, to open the doors to the platforms that we talked about today, and that we will put this under the roof in this mandate. The Secretary of State said that the platform law does not apply that this is a matter that we are changing. Look, we're granting an exemption for a license. Of course, the platform does not need a license, but if the platform is not the one carrying out the transport, the platform or transport organiser is the one who, just as Mr Zajc said, finds the customer and organises the matter, but does not carry out the transport platform itself. As a result of this, the proposal that we come with is second reading that it is only for licensed companies to be able to carry out transport operations. In short, if these platforms can come, those who can already drive for taxi services, or those who will go to get and execute a licence under the Road Transport Act, will be able to do the same in a new way. How will the data be exchanged? Look, we can't just write every single thing that's practically clear into the law. It is logical that with an agreement between the Ministry of Finance and Uber, there will be a connection with the servers and there will be clear control over what is being done, how much is being done and how much is being done. In addition, it is clear that Uber will issue – or any other platform – an electronic account. What further review do you need? »Last autumn actively joined.« I don't know how actively you've worked on the laws that you've produced in this term. Apparently there are several stages of this activity, but you said yourself, “car rental with the driver”. What kind of diction does this require in the law that it takes more than a year? If it is the will and if it is the interest and it is the interest, then if the law in the first reading does not go through in this attempt. Let us sit down with Members of the SMC, NSI and SDS, and prepare this proposal if you are obviously having such a problem preparing this proposal that you need more than a year. However, we will have a bill that is being drafted by the Members of the ruling coalition and by the work of the opposition and will be put through the parliamentary procedure by the Government, which should have been drafted long ago. I have not heard any rational arguments, with the exception of ideological arguments, against Ubru and the other platforms. Rational concerns, valid arguments were the only ones in the SMC, and these were all about the dictates of the law. This is precisely why we went to the Slovenian Democratic Party by putting this law into first reading, so that the things that disturb you, you have concerns, can be corrected in the second reading with the amendments – we can, too, together – and that we can finally step in with development and open the door and provide our citizens with additional profits.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u85	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I'm guessing yes, so I'm asking you to apply. The first one has the word, Mr. Jernej Vrtovec. Everyone has three minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Madam President. The Uber system is the most natural and at the same time normal because it is. Let's just go to a new age, we're in a new time. Mr Secretary of State, if a person listens to you, he will get answers about why we, for example, have a railway infrastructure actually an outdoor museum, but you are actually fighting something that will not be possible in the long run, it will not be possible. In this way you represent a literal analog clock in some digital world. Please, everyone here will ask us one day why we're going to the United States of America and using Uber, why I'm going to Russia or Belarus and I can use Uber, why I'm going to Bangladesh and I can't use Uber in Slovenia? I'll tell you in the long run, we're fighting something that's not going to happen. We're all alone, especially here looking at SD across the hall, a little hypocrites. We've been in Brussels with many of you before, and we've gone with Uber, and we've rented it together, and we've used it somewhere else. We walk around the world, we subscribe to this app, we shag and pay and say how nice it is and how good it is, but we ourselves are not so honest with the people living in this country, to the students, to the younger generation, that we can use the Uber application. Distortion of competition. Please! Uber and I will get it, just because it strengthens competitiveness in this area, including better other transport options, taxis will improve and will be cheaper. This means competitiveness. By getting Uber, other transport providers will also have to work for their daily bread if they want to survive. It is, and thank God, that we have opportunities in other areas at least competitiveness. Mr. Secretary of State, did you come here alone to the National Assembly in the car, by transport? Every time he drives himself in a car from the National Assembly or a minister, he's in an illegal state, I'd say. The Road Transport Act governs the transport of only more persons, not one person, thus changing this part and allowing the Minister to drive himself in the car. Let me know if he's driving alone, where the marriage ground is even to drive alone. Today's vote against this is also a vote in favour of continuing to have a marriage gap here. At least we should be self-sufficient enough to vote for something because it will be legally possible. Other applications already operating in Slovenia do not have a legal basis, and this can also be done [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u87	Mr. Igor Zorčič has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u88	Thank you so much for saying that. In this mandate, I think that, as we have talked a lot about the shared economy, about Uber, but about Airbnb, it seems to me that now that we are somehow approaching the end of the mandate, we have not taken some important steps to implement these new technologies or somehow put them into practice with us. Whether we can be in a bad mood is more or less a matter of discussion. The fact is, the story of Uber, at least as far as I'm concerned, is kind of specific. On the one hand, it is somehow promising and brings about the possibility of developing traffic, as I mentioned earlier in a position that is consistent with our vision. On the other hand, Uber is a company that has become rather aggressive and quite conflicting in various markets. We can read about this in the media of different countries. In short, it is a society which is in a lot of conflict with the authorities of different countries and why certain countries have concerns about how they should allow this company to operate within their territory. I agree that, given all this information coming from abroad, we can be quite conservative to wait to see what the best system is, and that when we monitor the situation abroad, we are trying to answer the most pressing questions, what is the carrier's responsibility, what is the working relationship of those driving in Uber-related cars, how is it with tax control. In short, I think that these are all issues that have not yet been thoroughly cleared and would remain open and, as such, potential for disputes such as they have abroad if the law is adopted today. When I talked about Uber's added value in Slovenia, I might point out something else. What's still disturbing to me is that I notice that Uber is targeting large urban centres in particular. I believe that, given the structure of this platform, added value could also be in rural areas, but I am afraid that it is not interested in rural areas. Thus, as a hint to all such platforms, it could be that it will be significantly easier to accept in the political space if all citizens are targeted in short all those in need of certain forms of transport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u89	Mrs. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen! This debate has shown that, for the first time, this law, which we are now considering in the first reading, should be allowed through, as is said, a second reading. Before that, actually organise one technology workshop to answer the question of what new technologies bring for new business models. Uber is just one platform that actually provides a banal service, that is transport. We are facing today, and tomorrow we will be even more, even if I may, with the bank sector becoming Uberised. European directives already exist in this area. You won't believe it's gonna come into force in a few days. In January 2018, when we are actually talking about fintech companies that have different solutions in the field of innovative payment services and will under this directive, which I am talking about, is the PSD-2 shortcut and this shortcut is actually the collapse of banking monopolies, and under this directive the banks will actually have to open up opportunities for these financial and technological enterprises, in fact they will have to open accounts. If I, as the committee of a bank, want more efficient and hypnotic, especially cheaper financial, if you want, payment transactions. We're going this way, this way today, not tomorrow. That is why I say that we should organise one education here in the National Assembly to understand what new technology means in new business models. I said before, I will not repeat now, the European Commission gave guidance on how to regulate such business models last June. Today, in fact, rather than the gentlemen of the Ministry of Infrastructure, I would expect a lady from the Ministry of Social Affairs here, and a lady from the Ministry of Finance, a gentleman from the Ministry of Economics and Technology Development, although unfortunately technological development is only on the wall. That's what we're talking about today. And my wish, a godly desire, that the new composition of the National Assembly, which will be sitting here, will also establish a committee for the digital economy, a digital society, or whatever its name is, is based on the example of the German Bundestag. This would be very useful for Members to first understand what new technologies mean in new business models.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u91	Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go. You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u92	Thank you for your word. For the misfortune of many, even my adult life, I am professionally engaged in exactly what the Member of Parliament was saying before me, and I must say that I find this very difficult to hear today because it is a little bit off. The key issue of capitalism is the relationship between work and capital. Even if you are, I don't know, the most ortho-righter, you know that, and that's why Orban is against Uber. Somehow, what you're saying here on the right and I think most SMCs to a Member in seat 90 is something like this. Economics, technology, it's something like that, something natural, said a young MEP from New Slovenia. And then he was referring to some countries. But he didn't wonder why people are running from Bangladesh. Why many in the United States do not have health insurance, not even basic insurance, and will have fewer under the Son-in-law Trump. In his talk, someone could see it as if the cabbies are not trying. I don't use these platforms myself, and I don't use them for ideological reasons. Because that's basically an ideological question. It is also a constitutional issue, I do not know if the applicant has read. In our constitution, we have written down when we talk about business, including the environmental dimension and also the social dimension. Here's the problem. You know, the right hand is very fond of blowing on the souls of pensioners, sneaking away and so on. Let's be honest – the economy's aberration leads to less money in public cash registers, leads to even lower pensions. Pika! That's it. Now cut yourself there SDS. This is also why your partners are in the Epipe, and this is not a propaganda program, but an association of conservative so-called people's parties, in many countries and cities, has been banned. That's a fact. I agree that the area of the divisional economy needs to be reconsidered and regulated. Absolutely, yes. But then there's an essential ideological difference. Here the Left and – I hope – also the so-called social democracy, stems from the principle of solidarity and justice, and you do not. All you're saying is that it's going to be as cheap for us as possible, but it's going to be the person who's been doing this service for a living, or it's going to die, and you're not interested. There's a significant difference between you and us. And I know that from the headquarters of Uber in Zagreb to Slovenia they have directed something over 300,000 euros, and I also know which key Slovenian lobbyist is here in the back and that is why you have to say what you are saying today. Pika!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u93	Procedurally, Mr. Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President! I need to react with procedural. Please warn Dr. Franz Duck that he does not qualify us as some lame-ass. New Slovenia has a socio-market economy model on its agenda. I said earlier that the letter of intent signed in San Francisco on 22 September last year by Minister Koprivnikar, Vice-President of the Government, would be signed by me or Nova Slovenija, because Uber and the Ministry of Public Administration of the Republic of Slovenia have established a dialogue aimed at exploiting the social, environmental and economic potential of the growing collaborative and digital economy. Their efforts stem from the common vision of Slovenia as a green reference country in digital Europe. I'm sorry you don't sign this, Dr. Duck.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u95	Procedural Sir or Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. Look, an experienced Member has made an eclectic abuse of procedure. As I do so, I have learned from Mr Tank, who does nothing else in Parliament but this. And he's been in Parliament for 17 years and he's already costing us a million euros, and that's all he's doing. Now I will abuse him – give me a reminder! If I count on the Slovenian right, one parliamentary term costs 100 million, somewhere. And if the range of SMC and the right is that someone is going to sell us something to do, it's 66.70 million thrown away. However, to be serious, we are Members of Parliament, or this part of the Members after four years is worth a good 10 million — 11 million to be thrown away. Indeed, if I speak as Jean Mahnic or as New Slovenia, then we do not need Parliament anymore. We need Janez Janša to tell Jean-Mahnič what he has to say, and we'll cash out. That's the ideological problem. Of course, if he transfers 300,000 euros to Slovenia, which he orders around to some companies, you have to defend here and you'll say that Duck is crazy, Run, test, up and down. But that's politics, and we need to talk seriously. From Zagreb, over 300,000 euros were earmarked for a good old acquaintance from Janša in those days, and you are doing this now. In Brussels, of course, Uber transfers millions of lobbying amounts. This is the world in which we live and with which politics must be dealt with seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u97	Thank you both, but if you'll excuse me, I'll be explaining the rules of procedure for a few more minutes. In my opinion, none of you have abused this institute. But I would, Dr. Duck, avoid any hint of anything. Let me tell you, I, too, agree to settle this area, unfortunately not as the motioner himself suggests, and this does not mean that I am under the influence of any lobby. I think that it is very similar with the proponents and those who support it, as with those who do not support this proposal. I give the floor to the other Vice-President, Mr Primož Hainz, for discussion. You have 3 minutes and 15 seconds, Mr. Hainz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I have to say that I listened to the debate or the introduction of the proposaler, which began in this sense, "the property is the world, we have apartments, we have cars" and he wondered why we wouldn't use it and earn it. It sounded so nice. But then we got a lesson on digital transformation, on the sharing economy, on new technologies, which we don't know anything about, Mr Lach says we've been overrun by time, everything but him. However, I must say that the introduction ended about this way; in order to make some order in this area, then, of course, Uber. That was an introduction. Just Uber and absolutely nothing but Uber. Well, then the debate spread a little bit, for a nuance, but basically it was one big Uber, Uber Pier. As far as this driving time is concerned, I must say that I am thinking quite differently myself. Actually, I don't know if Uber's connected to technology development. I think it's modern time – this shows us Europe, to develop the world and so on – to drive through public transport, or else we'll choke. One Uber car is the same as driving my car, one and the other is too much. Not to explain further, because, you know, they are studying this in Europe; even the German social democracy that you are following is now at this point whether it will go to the government or not. This is one of these important points. And that I'm in the middle of something because it's just a minute. As far as the pensioners are concerned, because we were also the pensioners attacked, you give the pensioners and so on. You know, with the pensioners, this is -- we're working now with the ZDUS on Senior for the Elders, working on the Neighbor's Neighbor, working on inter-human relations, that is, inter-generational solidarity, so that the neighbor can go somewhere, so that he can go for free, not with Uber, but that someone can take him to help him go inside and so on. This is an action led by ZDUS and Desus. I wouldn't talk about the problems of the workers, because there was a lot to be said. But if you ever talked to a GoOpti driver – I had a neighbor not to tell you what he told me about the terrible working conditions. By the way, Mr. Jan Mahnic, right over to Kotnikov's, you know, I usually go on foot. So whether I'm driving with Uber or not, I'm sure I'm not, because I think it's this close. I would also advise you to take a short walk in the morning, it will be much easier. At the same time, Mr Lisec has accused us of having no idea. Okay, she's not an insult, but I have to say I'm thinking about things, maybe I don't know everything, but I'm thinking about things. And one more thing. Uber has nothing to do with the progress that our colleague Marko was trying to convince us of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u99	Mr. Jean-Mahnič, you have the floor. There's no government representative reported, so it's just you. Here you go. You have a final thought.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u100	Thank you, Vice President. Well, you said yourself that you support it, not in the way we suggest. I hope that you will also come to action from this support, and if we take it together, you too will come along, and how this law would be properly designed to enable such platforms to arrive. As far as supervision is concerned, Mr Secretary of State, it is also up to whoever controls it. If this is what Mr. Bojan Žlender, sitting next to you, knows what kind of control this is going to be, we know what kind of story he had with his driver's license. However, if someone who is in the interest of effective control and prevention of manipulation and manipulation is to do so, control will certainly be successful. If you want, you can also write with the amendment in the second reading that everything must be in accordance with tax law, so that those users who will use these services as transport providers will know that they must act in accordance with tax legislation, because if you do not write this in each law, it is obviously not necessary. In the SDS, we just wanted to cut off this break that took place last fall, given that the government has not made any proposals, and there are more and more who would like us to keep pace with time. There are more and more young people going abroad who come back, who have positive and good experience with Uber and ask why we do not have this in Slovenia. Everything will be in accordance with the law, no manipulation or abuse. The law is clear in this part. If you want, we can make the law even clearer in the second reading. We in the SDS are not the same as the government, but from last autumn to this day, we are just complaining how nothing can be done. We are not complaining, we are looking for solutions, at least in this direction, to obey the Prime Minister of the Government of Dr. Mir Cerar or somehow follow his motto as opposed to you. If I am very direct, why am I going to support this law myself, because I believe in Mr. Ljub Žnidar more than a theoretical talker, who is a top expert in construction and transport [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u101	Please. Avoid insults.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u102	which clearly stated what this law brings and what the state of transport in the field of Slovenia is. [[…]] So that this law will be supported by the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u103	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate. The proposal to decide that the bill is suitable for further consideration will be decided tomorrow, 14 December, in the framework of the votes. I'm putting an end to the 21st item of the agenda. We're moving on to 15. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS ANOTHER DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS OF THE SURVEILLANCE LAW IN THE FIELD OF THE REGULAR PROCEDURE The draft law was submitted to the National Council for consideration. At its 44th meeting, on 29 November, the draft law was considered by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. As the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted at the end of the discussion, the second consideration of the draft law was completed at the working body meeting. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. Ms Susana Lepi Šimenko will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u104	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Members! The Act amending the Insurance Act, which has been tabled by the Council of State, is intended to introduce two amendments. The first provides that the provisions of the law governing the participation of workers in management and control bodies shall apply to workers. The applicants estimate that it is necessary for workers' representatives to change the conditions for taking up functions, and they point more precisely to the condition of 5 years of working experience in the management and management of the business of an insurance undertaking or a comparable company. The latter refers to the composition of the assembly of representatives of the company for mutual insurance as they estimate that the current composition established on the basis of age classes is ineffective. We do not agree with the proposed amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We believe that the conditions for a session in the management and control bodies for all should be the same, including for those appointed by workers. These are important functions that make difficult decisions and can only be carried out by those who are qualified to do so, and we must by no means evaluate them. Nor can we agree on changing the arrangement of mutual insurance company representatives. As has already been said, we have not supported the amendments to the Insurance Act in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr Uroš Prikl will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! This time the bill is proposed by the Council of State. Let me remind you, the last novel, the last amendment to this law, was last considered almost exactly two years ago in November 2015. That is when we accepted it, including, of course, the votes of the Desus Group of Ambassadors. It was a transposition of the European Directive, and at the same time it opened up a similar one, if not an identical one, as well as with this amendment of the law. It is a very important fact that the Council of State, which is today proposing the amendment of this law, did not object in its opinion to the current regulation, that is to say, the existing regulation, and therefore in Desus we are surprised that they have decided on such a move now and that they have not said anything about it at the time. At that time, it was stipulated that the area of insurance must be adapted to European rules and that the areas of banking insurance, of course, have some specific characteristics and that it is very important to know this area well, so it cannot be equated with other segments in the real sector or other segments in the economy itself. In our Group of Members, we are of the same opinion that it is also necessary for workers' representatives to meet the conditions applicable to all other stakeholders. Of course, at the same time in the same breath, we stress and highlight this fact that it is necessary to ensure that workers or employees in the management bodies and in the supervisory authorities have their representatives, but, as has already been said, they must also be subject to the conditions applicable to all other stakeholders, so that they can carry out their duties properly, qualitatively and effectively, both at the level of management and at the level of control, but not exclude, of course, workers and employees in this area. Another matter which is essential and which we do not agree with, we could even say that, in some way, this is nonsense, it seems to us to be a proposal to amend the current arrangement on the age structure, so we can only, of course, attach here, unconditionally, to the Government's opinion that the structure of the assembly of representatives of the mutual insurance company should reflect the age structure of the members of society. In the Desus Group, we believe that the current regime is probably not ideal, but it is very good and we do not see any better, we do not see a more effective solution, so we do not see the need to change the existing one, especially if we want to continue to maintain the principle of proportionality. However, the proposed key of division would only mean that we are seriously interfering with the unequal treatment of representatives of all categories of debtors. The result would be to break the system of intergenerational solidarity, intergenerational cooperation, if you want what we want, in Desus, it seems particularly unacceptable because, as you know, we advocate and are strictly behind the slogan that Desus is for all generations. Following the above, as a result of the arguments I have listed here, of course, we will not support the proposal of the law, nor will we support it on the working body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u108	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. The proposal for a law amending the Insurance Act has been tabled by the Council of State in order to ensure consistent compliance with the Law on the participation of employees in management, including insurance companies, and as a second solution to establish a regional composition, the assembly of representatives of the mutual insurance company. In short, they wanted to bring the operation of insurance companies closer to the experience and knowledge of both employees and to specific developments in this area in particular regions, which nevertheless differs according to how and what activities people face in each region. In the opinion of the Government, we see the need to respect the European Directive in a consistent manner, which is not surprising. In financial sectors, the conditions for participation in administrations and supervisory authorities should be tightened by additional regulation at European level, thus preventing people who do not meet the strict eligibility criteria from taking the lead in banks, insurance companies and other financial institutions. All well and well, if we do not meet in Slovenia even by trying to offer the management of the New Ljubljana Bank even to the full representatives from abroad, which means that somehow there has been an untrustworthy statement to all those who are already doing these works. It would make more sense to ask and bring closer to this proposal of the Council of State, but to help the employees to participate in the management of insurance companies as well. For if we respect what is stated in the directives, they can become members of the boards of directors, only those who have at least five years of working experience in leading positions. In practice, therefore, the worker can only be represented by a person experienced by the manager of a large company. This is, of course, a closed and blocked way for employees to participate in the management and supervision of insurance companies. Among other things, because of the absence of representatives of employees in the administration, we are also faced with the fact that employees, when alerted to irregularities, are subjected to bullying and often to the relocation of less demanding jobs. So, the principle of keeping employees quiet. If we had their representatives on board, that would certainly not be the case. However, I would also like to say that if we trusted employees to actively cooperate in the management and supervision of insurance companies and banks, we would certainly be able to solve certain problems more effectively, to overcome them and to establish the confidence and belongings of employees also in relation to public finances and to the fact that, of course, the banking system and the insurance system are largely owned by citizens and citizens. So we have to trust ourselves in the first place before we offer it to anyone else. That is why I supported this law on the Committee on Finance, but of course this was not enough for the members of the bill to be adopted, and this was how the proposal for a law amending the Law on Insurance on the Functioning Body was concluded. Well, one voice was too small. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The new Insurance Act, which we are considering on a proposal from the Council of State, is proposing amendments in two areas. In the field of legal regulation of the position of members of the management and control bodies of the insurance undertaking appointed as workers’ representatives, it excludes the validity of the Insurance Act for those members of the body and fully introduces the rules of the Law on the participation of workers in management. The applicant submits that a proposal to amend Article 54, paragraph 3, has been submitted with a view to correcting the anti-constitutional regime which, in determining the conditions for members of the management and control bodies, equates workers' representatives with other representatives. In the formulation of the proposal to amend paragraph, the applicant excluded the validity of the provisions of the Insurance Act in order to regulate the overall situation of members of the bodies which are representatives of workers and not only to regulate the conditions for their appointment. The proposed wording of the amendment is therefore broader than the objective pursued by the draft law. In the New Slovenia Group, we proposed a more precise definition with the amendment at the meeting of the parent working body, setting an exception for the members of the bodies representing the workers only in the work where the conditions for appointment are concerned. The second area in which the amendment proposes amendments is the composition of the Assembly of Representatives of the Mutual Insurance Society. The existing arrangement provides that the Assembly should be composed of representatives of five different age classes. Instead, the proposal for a novel should end and propose a three-part assembly consisting of representatives of unions, representatives of pensioners' associations and representatives of patients. In order to ensure the relative representation of interests in a mutual insurance company, only the fair age representation of insurers can create a safeguard to prevent the predominance of the partial interests of only certain or narrowly defined interest associations. In Novi Slovenije, we do not support a change that would allow the interests of the individual interest group to prevail within the mutual insurance company. Therefore, in dealing with the working body with the amendment, we have proposed deleting the proposed provisions of the amendment, which bring together a three-part assembly. The amendments brought about the maintenance of a more appropriate system in which the assembly of representatives of the mutual insurance company is composed of five age classes. This would ensure that the principle of intergenerational reciprocity is maintained among all insurers. Since the proposals of the amendments of the New Slovenia Group have not been supported in the treatment of the home labour body, we cannot support this amendment to the Insurance Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Dr. Franc Trček will move the position of the Left Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u112	Thank you for your word, chairman. Have a nice hello to you all. First time. The Socialist proposal of unionist Draga Ščernjavič is of course supported. We support it because it facilitates the participation of employees in the management and supervision of insurance companies. Another time. Incomprehensible restrictions on representatives of employees in the supervisory boards and administrations of insurance undertakings have been accepted by the current coalition. Members of the Left, we were against this law in autumn 2015. We have tabled amendments with the same content as this proposal now – with the exception of SD Members, no one has supported our amendments. They were not supported by NSI Members who supported Article 1 of this Act on the Committee. This is clear evidence that the vast majority of Members of this reference or of the parliamentary groups actively support the restriction of the constitutional right of workers to co-decision. Third time. What is the problem with the current arrangement? The problem is that employees in insurance authorities can only be represented by someone who has 5 years of experience in the management and supervision of financial institutions. This condition is met only by members of management and professional supervisors. In short, employees at insurance companies are virtually unable to represent themselves, but they must appoint former members of management or other external associates. This is in total contradiction with the essence of codecision, which is that workers are directly represented in business bodies. Fourth time. The restriction imposed by Cerara's coalition on insurance companies and banks has only one and only one objective. This objective is to remove employees from the supervisory authorities and to strengthen the monopoly of management in the management of banks and insurance undertakings. In short, although the crisis has shown that the management and supervision of financial institutions is catastrophic in our country, Cerara's coalition, with the exception of SD, has further reduced labour control. She was not helped by the Government itself, but also by the Constitutional Court. The government has manipulated the interpretation of European directives, which do not in fact prohibit exceptions to workers' representatives. The Constitutional Court has allowed restrictions on codecision in insurance companies which are totally unjustified. This is proof that state institutions are openly hostile to working together. Fifth. Perhaps someone will say that the Insurance Agency can exceptionally allow employees to be represented by someone who has not been in management. This is formally true, but the agency's procedures are completely imprecise. In addition, all the Agency’s management so far has been exposed to capital and management. We therefore rightly fear that this exception will be used to get candidates to the authorities to represent the interests of management, not employees. The convergence of workers' representatives is the main problem of co-management and the current arrangements for the possibility of this happening are only increasing. And six times. Economic democracy was one of the priorities of Cerara's coalition, at least that's how you spoke at the beginning. But at the end of this government's mandate, co-ordination in Slovenia will be less than it was at the beginning. Cerar's coalition has limited co-management in financial institutions to the extent that employees are practically unable to be directly represented in insurance and banking authorities. Moreover, the SMC coalition party and, unfortunately, the SD, without any serious discussion, have passed the revised Law on the Cooperation of Workers in Management, which was tabled by Levica on the basis of the proposals of the Association of Workers' Councils. With this, they have once again openly sided with management and capital. Without the recast of the outdated law, co-administration will continue to rest, or in most companies, it will become an extension of the management deadline, which will make it easier to stifle the labour initiative. We will, of course, support this proposal by unionist Ščernjavič. Like the previous topic on Uberisation, this is also a key political and economic theme, where we are actually wondering how this society will be regulated in the future. In this reference to the National Assembly, the crossing of political forces is such that it will be arranged to the detriment of those who actually create by their work the welfare and quality of life in this society and country. This is, of course, from the point of view of the socialists and, I hope, also from the position of finally slightly awakened social democracy unacceptable. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mrs Maruša Škopac will present the position of the Group of the Modern Centre Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u114	Thank you for your word. The Council of State has proposed to the National Assembly a proposal for a law amending the Insurance Act, by which it wished to apply only the provisions of the law governing the participation of workers in management for the representatives of workers who are members of the supervisory authorities. In addition, the Council of State proposes to amend the composition of the Assembly of Representatives of the Mutual Insurance Society. Regarding the participation of employees in management, it should be said that in the SMC Group we do not agree to make exceptions to the conditions for members of the board and members of the supervisory boards in insurance companies. The Insurance Act in Article 57 clearly lays down the conditions for members of the board. Thus, a member of the board must be adequately trained and have the characteristics and experience necessary to manage the business of the insurance undertaking. In addition to meeting the professional criteria, he must not be convicted of a criminal offence or initiate a personal bankruptcy procedure. He must also be a person of good reputation and integrity. For the SMC Group, it is essential that all members of the insurance management comply with the conditions set out above, regardless of whether they are workers' representatives or capital representatives. Similar conditions apply to members of the Supervisory Board. Because of this solution, which would make an exception to this, we do not support it. In all of this it must also be said that the Republic of Slovenia is obliged to comply with the requirements of Solvency 2 in the transposition of the Solvency 2 Directive and that there is no possibility of different regulation on this basis. Regarding the different regulation of the mutual insurance representative assembly, it should be said that we do not support the proposed amendments. The mutual insurance company operates on the basis of the principle of reciprocity, meaning that all members of the mutual insurance company provide solidarity for each individual. The age groups have also been set because the younger insured share of the premium is earmarked for intergenerational reciprocity and pay a higher premium than would have been necessary in relation to the expenses incurred by the insurance undertaking in relation to their damage. Older insurers therefore do not pay a higher premium. In view of the above, it is therefore correct that the Assembly should reflect the age structure of its members and not the members of individual interest groups, as proposed by the State Council, which wishes to establish the structure of the Assembly, where one third of the representatives of the Assembly would be members of trade unions, pension societies and representatives of the Union of Patient Associations. We will not support the proposed amendments to the Insurance Act in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u115	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. This concludes item 15 of the agenda. We're moving on to 19. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS THE FIRST PROPOSAL FOR AMENDMENTS TO THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENTATION OF THE LAW ON THE ADDITIONAL DEFINITIONS The draft law was tabled by a group of 19 Members and Members with first-signed Mr Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 19 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Mag. Mark Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u116	Dear President, Honourable Secretary of State, Fellow Members, Fellow Members. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have decided to include in the legislative process of the National Assembly a proposal to amend the Law on Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act. The reason why we decided to take this step is more and we are confident that the value added tax should return to the pre-crisis level. A key proposal of this law is the introduction of other lower value added tax rates, amounting to 5%. The proposed law is therefore intended to reduce value added tax rates to pre-crisis levels, which would relieve citizens, particularly those with the lowest income, while also encouraging consumption, which would have a beneficial impact on economic growth and competitiveness and thus ultimately on revenues in the National Assembly. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, with the proposed amendment to the Value Added Tax Act, we propose to introduce or apply two reduced value added tax rates in Slovenia, as in many countries of the European Union. The first lower value added tax rate is proposed at 8,5 % and the second lower rate is 5 %, as far as the lowest rate allowed in the European Union Directive is still. The law proposes a new discharge in the supply of goods and the provision of services which may be subject to lower rates in categories for which an added value tax of 8,5 % would be applied and in categories for which a value added tax of 5 % would be applied. The following would indicate the list of supplies and supplies of services proposed for the second lower value tax rate, namely 5 percentage points: bread, flour, cheese, eggs, fruit, vegetables, water supply, medicines used for the treatment and prevention of diseases in human and veterinary medicine, medical equipment, supplies and other means intended for the relief and treatment of defects, supplies, including library rental of books on all physical carriers, housing, housing and other facilities intended for the permanent stay, renewal and repair of private dwellings, other than materials that are essential to the value of supply, public hygiene services, domestic protection services, animals for questions, seeds, seeds, fertilisers, services and entrapment, together with the transport of goods directly linked to the burial or entrapment, the supply of electricity, natural gas and land heating. We believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that this change would benefit both the economy and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. We are convinced that the permanent measure imposed by the Government of Mir Cerar and the coalition of the Modern Centre Party, the Social Democrats and Desus, which have consistently increased the value added tax, must be abolished. We are convinced that the value added tax rate should return to the pre-crisis level and that this change introduces an additional reduced rate of 5%, as some European Union countries do. This is mainly about those vital necessities of life. We are convinced that the revenues in the budget are high enough that this amendment of the law to the added value or reduction should not delay public finances. Moreover, we are convinced that such a measure would give additional consumption and thus increase revenue to the budget and to the public treasury. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that economic growth should also be known in the pockets of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u117	Thank you very much. For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Tiln Bozic, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u118	President, thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! In the introductory address, I would not repeat what the proposer has already said, saying what he is saving and what the impact is expected to be, so that he focuses mainly on what is the key in the Government's opinion. The government opposes the bill for several reasons, but certainly at least from the need to continue the gradual fiscal consolidation in accordance with the Fiscal Rule Act, the preparation of structural measures and measures to increase the competitiveness of the business environment. In particular, Slovenia must, after proposing that the excessive deficit procedure be completed, continue to consolidate public finances, which is around 1 per cent of GDP at nominal level. This ensures that expenditure growth is lower than income growth. This path is mapped on the basis of already produced revenue projections and any change in these would lead to an even sharper reduction in expenditure. The government is aware that the improved circumstances of the state budget provide much higher revenues than those initially expected, but the challenge is also faster fiscal consolidation so that Slovenia can achieve such a structural balance of finances by the year or 2020. The consequences of the last recession remain to be felt both at European Union level and in Slovenia, not least in terms of the country's high debt. In this context, the European Commission has also called on Member States to step up efforts to implement structural reforms and ensure responsible fiscal policy, focusing on achieving more inclusive growth. In the tax area, it is important to prepare for the economic growth of friendly measures by strengthening the competitiveness of the business environment, structural reforms and fiscal responsibility. The Government is working towards such solutions based on the principle of fair and equitable burden-sharing and covers, as has already been mentioned, restructuring the burden of public benefits, reducing administrative obstacles and improving the efficiency of the collection of public benefits, of course, bearing in mind that the planned solutions should not undermine macroeconomic balance or the fulfilment of fiscal objectives. Measures in the tax area which have a significant impact on public financial revenues should therefore only be imposed in a financially neutral manner at the time when the desired structural balance has not yet been reached. Now a few more words about the effects. In the budgets adopted for 2018 and 2019, the VAT deduction of EUR 300 million at an annual level is not taken into account, which is estimated to result from the proposed change in the VAT rate to the level established before July 2013, or an additional drop of around EUR 250 million as a result of the introduction of an additional lower VAT rate of 5% for the selected supplies of goods and services. The overall financial impact of the bill would thus amount to around €550 million of lower VAT revenues in the state budget. The current budget position of Slovenia does not allow the reduction of VAT rates without simultaneous drastic measures on the revenue and/or expenditure side. An in-depth discussion on the VAT system in Slovenia would, of course, be more appropriate after the adoption of the reform of the updated VAT system by establishing a definitive VAT system for cross-border trade within the European Union, which also plans to reshape the VAT system framework. The European Commission is forecasting the submission of its last legislative proposal for the first quarter of 2018. Dear Members and Members, taking into account the above-mentioned Government's proposal to the law, it opposes and proposes that you do not support the bill. For further explanations, however, we are, as usual, also available here with colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u119	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacič will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u120	Thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, everyone's welcome! Allow me to present the position of the Desus Group on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act. The political parquet has skillfully used the economic recovery of the country as a tool for generating political points. This is discussed by a number of unserious legislative proposals made by opposition members offering copied solutions, skewing explanations, and even more sadly, tax proposals offer without a specific assessment of the financial implications. Thus, this month, again on the agenda, we have a proposal for a law on the reduction of the value added tax rate. Only a reference to the growth of private consumption is a popular, theoretical scenario, but it is far from reality. For the first time, it is difficult to change people’s thinking and habits overnight. After a long break from month to month, we cannot expect and agree on the fact that money has to circulate. What if he is not in many wallets? Secondly, no one ensures that the reduction in tax rates will not be followed by an increase in retail prices. Let us recall that the similar idea of encouraging lower rates of profit tax was not paid in the form of greater investment in growth and business development. Thirdly, the proposal, according to past estimates by the Finance Ministry, means a shortfall of around €300 million, which, without a proper countermeasure, cannot withstand the golden rule of the Constitution. The only example that we consider worth considering in the Desus Group is the proposal for an additional lower tax rate for certain goods. They would only point out the essentials of life. In the Group of Members, we have always advocated fair taxation of the debtors, but not at the expense of the weak. Let me reiterate our view that the tax box needs to be filled with the tax revenues of those who create above average, not at the expense of those who do not even have to survive. Unfortunately, economic growth did not magically eliminate poverty, and we still have people today who are deprived of their daily basic well-being. The pensioners are among them, too. Last year, there were as many as 83,000 who fell below the poverty risk threshold, so they would have hoped for a step further in this place and even proposed a zero rate for basic goods. At the same time, in the same breath, we warn that we have done nothing without an appropriate offer on the other hand. That is exactly what the opposition's proposal is today. The latter simply means that the rich will be even more wealthy and poor in ever-increasing poverty, so it would be more than necessary to increase the tax on luxury goods at the same time if we want to maintain the integrity of the state treasury and eliminate the growing income differences in society. In the Desus Group, we believe that the country in the light of a just social state still depends on the financial source of tax revenue, and we also believe that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u122	Thank you for your word, once again, and a nice greeting to everyone. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Value Added Tax Act, submitted by the Slovenian Democratic Party to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption, actually aims to reduce the general tax rate from 22 % to 20 % and lower the rate from 9,5 % to 8,5 % and introduces a new lower tax rate of 5%. All of this would be able to be understood as well-intentioned, but it is not possible to overlook the fact that the Slovenian Democratic Party was one of the most zealous advocates of entering a fiscal rule into the constitution, which, of course, severely restricts such proposals. Therefore, it should first be clarified whether it is really enough to record, as an excuse for this law, that there will be sufficient indirect effects in order to increase consumer spending, so that there will be better business results in companies, that there will be more revenue from other taxes and contributions and that there will be a higher rate of growth of gross domestic product, which is expected to offset the decline in revenues of EUR 550 million. Of course, there is no in-depth analysis of these claims, so this is just a written text. Of course, this raises the question of whether real prices will go down if the tax rate of each VAT rate is reduced. Here, it is necessary to put at great risk, for example, that traders can place this reduction in the tax rate in their margins. This, of course, destroys this described effect so that articles will be cheap in Slovenia and will increase consumption. We must also know and face the fact that very many trading systems are in foreign ownership in Slovenia, and it is not expected that we should look very closely at how we will improve the image of our public finances. On the contrary, sooner these traders will try to make every effort to improve their public finances or their private financial position. As a result, of course, this measure is insufficiently based on this point. What a severe consequence, however, the rapid change in tax legislation can have, in practice, have the power to judge the income reform introduced under the so-called first Janša government. Its result was a billion less revenue in the budget, which, of course, was greatly lacking right at the start of the economic and financial crisis, when the inflows to the budget fell dramatically due to this crisis. In addition, it should be pointed out that the so-called ZUJF, the Public Finance Balance Act, has strongly suppressed people and prevented in fact greater consumption, as reflected in the drastic fall in gross domestic product. One of the measures at the time of the crisis was to slightly increase the VAT rate and thus stabilise or to a large extent stabilise public finances to make it easier for us to overcome all these difficult situations that arose after the economic and financial crisis also in Slovenia. Of course, because of all these experiences and concerns, we do not support this law in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat will move the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members - Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable representatives of the government, dear colleagues and colleagues! On the part of the coalition, we listen to the obvious that the opposition comes with unrealistic proposals for laws. Well, we don't get serious or unrealistic bill proposals from the coalition MPs and Members. So we don't get anything. In Novi Slovenije, we had a strong response to the increase in value added tax at the time of the increase forecast in 2013. The rise from 20 to 22% and the rise from 8.5 to 9.5% was, of course, seen as a measure contrary to the Christian democratic programme. It is therefore quite clear that we support the proposal for a law that restores the level of value added tax to the previous level. Slovenia is one of the countries with over-average value added tax rates. The latest World Economic Forum report also estimates that for the business environment in Slovenia, in addition to inefficient state bureaucracy, the most difficult factor is the high tax rate. In Slovenia, work and consumption are above average, which is why in the past we have already proposed a reduction in the VAT rate to the German level, a reduction in contributions by applying the developmental or social cap and social slipper and an increase in the general income allowance to €7,000. In accordance with our proposal to amend the Income Act, employees with an average salary per month would receive a good €80 more than they have received so far. Unfortunately, the government coalition has not listened to our proposal for higher wages, but rather increases budget expenditure. It is unusual that the Left Government Coalition does not support the reduction of VAT rates. This is a tax that affects the poorest citizens most, since they spend the largest share of their monthly income on the consumption of the products they need for their monthly survival. On the other hand, most of their income is saved, which means that this part of their value added tax income is not taxed. It is and must be repeatedly repeated that value added tax is the most a social tax. Contrary to the government's restraint on tax cuts, we can see that this is much braver when it comes to taking from the budget. From 2016 to 2019, the government envisages an increase of almost €700 million in budgetary expenditure. 700 million euros! The way in which state fiscal policy is managed indicates, above all, that the government is unaware of the fact that money is created in the economy. Fruits of gross social product growth and consequently the expansion of the state budget under the leadership of the existing government reap only the expenditure side of the budget. Companies that, together with their employees, take care of budgetary enlargement are waiting for at least a little burden to come. Reducing the burden of value added tax would certainly also increase consumption, stimulate economic activity and improve the business conditions of economic operators. The high-tax policy shows great mistrust for the ability of citizens to manage the money they deserve. Only a policy that does not trust its citizens requires them to pay too much taxes to manage these funds instead. This is a policy we are rejecting by Christian Democrats. Since reducing tax burdens is an extremely important part of the direction of the New Slovenia economic programme, of course we support the amendment of the Value Added Tax Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr Luka Mesec will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u126	Thank you for your word, chairman and nice greeting. One of the key things that we have already taken up the entire mandate in Levica is fair taxation. The value added tax, of course, is regressive, we are also stressing this and therefore socially unjust. In Levica, its reduction would be supported, but only in the event of tax evasion, such as taxation of the rich and capital. However, if we reduce VAT in the way that the right one proposes, the social effects would be reversed. Those with lower incomes would be more affected, especially those dependent on social assistance and other forms of social state. Why? It is an assessment, an assessment by the applicant, that the budget revenue shortfall would amount to around EUR 300 million. How would you replace him? By cutting wages in the public sector by cutting social assistance that is already at minimum cost of living; in short, such or other cuts to the social state would be necessary. True, the inflow at the time of the contraction is higher in the budget, but because of many tax exemptions in the last decade, it is still too small. At the same time, more resources are an opportunity for social and economic development and this needs to be taken advantage of. As regards the second part of the novel, the introduction of a second reduced rate of 5%, we estimate that this could be a useful measure if it allowed better access to certain goods. This is a measure that could become an important instrument of tax policy. Of course, there is another major problem in reducing VAT. The assumption that, by reducing the tax burden on consumption, it is passed on to lower consumer prices. Many econometric studies show that this effect is too small, usually even negligible. The reduced tax liability is to a good extent translated into greater profits for producers or traders. This is precisely why tax legislation should be addressed in an integrated and not one-off way, as it would only achieve the desired effects. What is a key issue in our view in the field of tax policy? Each session often we hear repeated neoliberal dogma that our wages are too heavy. It is true that we must therefore reduce the difference between gross and net payments and become a rich country. We could say a rich country, but for that it would be the price of health care and the pension system. And in such a country, most people would not have social security and would not have access to free minimum health services. We'd be forced to buy it on the market if we had enough money to do that. If we look at the statistics. The tax margin, in English tax wedge, for the total income of a person who receives two thirds of the average wage, is 39%. In neighbouring Austria 44, Italy 45. None of those who talk about how we should become a rich country are practically talking about the far-reaching problem of our tax system, which causes the greatest inequality in our country — property inequality. 10% of the richest Slovenians already own 47% of all assets in the country and the poorest 20% own only 5%. In other words, 20% of the richest are owned by 62% of all assets, i.e. more than the remaining 80% of the people combined. Much of this property is either non-taxable or negligiblely taxed. A key starting point for a fair tax reform is therefore the progressive taxation of capital and property revenues, especially high value assets. There is one more thing to mention. It is interesting how SDS's proponent has just discovered the concern for social justice. Until now, she has generally advocated a liberal model of measures and policies, even in the past, as a government party, she has aggressively implemented such measures. ZUJF from the time of the Janša government is one of the milestones for the social situation of most people in Slovenia. This is one of the most anti-social measures that has serious social security implications today. More than that, today's proposal is to promote this neoliberal ideology and pressure on state services and the social state. If I conclude, we can reduce the value added tax, but compensation must be provided on the other hand. Where the reserves are, we have repeatedly said in this mandate. Above all, you need to look at taxation of assets, capital that are far below the European average, and we are practically on the European tail. When we are willing to do so, we will support the reduction of value added tax in Levica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mrs Maruša Škopac will present the position of the Group of the Modern Centre Party. I'm asking for some peace.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u128	Thank you for your word. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act was tabled in the procedure of the SDS Group of Members of the National Assembly. With the proposed amendments, they want to return the value added tax rate to the previous situation, from 22 to 20% and from 9.5 to 8.5%. They also propose the introduction of a new, additional lower rate of 5 % for selected supplies of goods and services, of which VAT is paid at a rate of 9,5 % or 22 % under the current regime. The relevant list of supplies of goods and services to which an additional lower VAT rate would apply would include, as proposed by law, the supply of children's clothing and footwear, school supplies, fire equipment, electricity, natural gas and remote heating. With regard to the existing value added tax regime, it should be pointed out that, as a permanent measure, VAT raising was adopted under the government of Alenka Bratušek. In May 2013, the then government in the Stability Programme, which was submitted to the European Commission, committed itself to raising VAT as a permanent measure. Of course, we understand the sustainability of the measure because the former government has increased the country's debt and created a large deficit due to the resolution of the banking system. This government is aware that due to the prevailing situation, public debt needs to be reduced in the way it was intended in 2013 and thus, inter alia, through a permanent increase in VAT rates. We can certainly assess that, due to respect for the commitments made, we cannot undo this. The VAT deduction cannot be replaced. The public financial situation does not provide an opportunity to lower VAT rates without simultaneous measures on the revenue and expenditure side. These counter-measures were not proposed by the SDS Group. They proposed amendments that allocated the expenditure of the state budget of almost €19 million. Given that the budget is linked to almost 90% of the legal obligations, proposals are not feasible. The budget must be balanced and that is not covered in the bill. Such a bill would thus constitute a violation of the Constitution and the fiscal rule, because the shortfall in budget revenues of EUR 550 million could not be replaced. Nor will we agree in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre to repeat mistakes from 2006 to 2008, when the then government has contributed to the overheating of the economy through tax policy. The Slovenian economy is not yet overheated and will not be overheated on the basis of current economic policy measures in 2018. As a result, the way forward must be to create surpluses for bad times and prepare Slovenia for a possible future crisis. We're doing everything with such populist measures before this. The government by its actions strengthens the competitiveness of the business environment, affecting sustainable economic growth and increasing the global competitiveness of Slovenia on the one hand, while ensuring public financial consolidation through a gradual structural balance of public finances. With regard to promoting consumption, it should be noted that the reduction in VAT rates does not yet mean that there would also be a proportionate reduction in the final prices of goods and services. We have joined consumption promotion through a mini-tax reform in 2016, which meant raising additional general relief by EUR 300 and excluding part of the salary for business performance from the tax base of labour income and slightly by changing the income scale, which is for employees above 1.6 times the average wage. We also encourage consumption through measures taken by the new tax package adopted in November this year. Thus, the solutions to the new Income Act allow higher incomes for selective groups. The change in the way in which additional general relief is determined allows certain taxpayers to increase their net salary under the average wage. Also increasing the special relief for students and students increases their net earnings. All of this will have a positive impact on consumption without jeopardising public finances. For all of this, the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre is against the solutions proposed by the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Ms Susana Lepi Šimenko will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u130	Thank you for your word. Hello again! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have tabled an amendment to the Value Added Tax Act, which we will support. In May 2013, at the time of the Government of Alenka Bratušek, the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015, which, inter alia, established higher rates of value added tax, was adopted. The overall rate thus increased from 20 % to 22 % and the lower rate increased from 8.5 % to 9.5%. The government, which proposed the law at the time, stated that it was a temporary anti-crisis measure that would last for two years to stabilise public finances. Regrettably, the Government of Mira Cerar came forward, which, with the Value Added Tax Act, proposed that higher levels of value added tax become a permanent measure. The SMC, Desus and SD Coalition also adopted a proposal at the meeting of the National Assembly in November 2015 for higher value added tax rates than a permanent measure. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we objected to the proposal because such a measure seemed totally unnecessary and socially unfair to us. The value added tax is the tax that affects those who have the least, since they pay the most according to their income. We are in a period of conjuncturing, we are recording an encouraging economic growth, which, as a result, also means higher revenues in the state budget. In 2018, more revenue is expected for €1.4 billion in the budget than in 2014. It would be fair for people to repay what they had been promised, namely that the rise in value added tax is only a temporary measure, which was, of course, necessary at the time for the stabilisation of public finances. Reducing value added tax rates would not only burden the most socially vulnerable citizens, but would also encourage consumption, which would have a beneficial impact on economic growth, on the competitiveness of our economy and consequently on the revenues of the state budget. Many European countries have two reduced tax rates, some of which also have a so-called super-reduced value added tax rate; these are countries such as Ireland, Spain, France, Italy and Luxembourg. The proposed law proposes a reduction in value added tax to pre-crisis levels, i.e. from 22% to 20% and from 9.5% to 8.5%. At the same time, we are proposing the introduction of an additional, other lower tax rate of 5%. Many European countries have a lower overall value added tax rate than Slovenia. Let me list some: Luxembourg has, say, a 17% overall value added tax rate, Malta 18%, Germany, Cyprus, Romania 19%, France, Austria, Bulgaria, Estonia, Slovakia have 20%, the Czech Republic, Belgium, Spain, Lithuania, Latvia, the Netherlands have 21% of the total value added tax. Council Directive of 28 November 2006 on the common system of value added tax in Article 98 provides that Member States may apply one or two reduced rates of value added tax. It is also established that the lower rate should not be less than 5%. On the basis of the provisions of the directive, we also propose to apply two reduced value added tax rates in Slovenia, as in many European Union countries. Thus, they would have a first lower value added tax rate of 8,5 % and a second lower rate of 5 %. Many European countries, more specifically, 17 are using two reduced value added tax rates. In the law before us today, we have proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party a new classification of the supply of goods and the provision of services for which a lower value added tax rate can be applied by 8.5% and 5% of the value added tax. The reduced value-added tax rate of 5% would thus, according to our proposal, apply to the supply of electricity, natural gas, remote heating, basic foods such as bread, cheese, eggs, fruit and vegetables, clothing, footwear, school supplies, firefighting equipment, water supply, medicines, medical equipment, residential facilities, renovation and repair of private dwellings, public hygiene services, domestic protection and animal care for the issue, plantings, fertilizers for use in agriculture. It is time for all citizens to have something of economic growth, and of course it is time to lower their taxes. At this point, it is time to lower the value added tax. Of course, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will also support and count on your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u131	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. The word has magic. Marko Pogačnik, proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u132	Mr President, thank you for the floor. In view of the views expressed by the parliamentary groups, and in particular the views of the coalition parliamentary groups, we have come to the conclusion that the coalition will not once again support the opposition's proposal. I am also surprised by Levice's position that it will not support such a proposal, because we are confident in the Slovenian Democratic Party that the value added tax is the most unjust one, because the value added tax is paid equally by everyone, regardless of the monthly income or property that someone owns. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are disappointed that you are not following this proposal, because we are confident that, given the economic growth and the situation in the country that is today, and the forecast for the future is such that it allows the value added tax to be reduced and returned to the pre-crisis level. The fact is that this coalition has turned the parties of the Modern Centre Party, the Social Democrats and Desus into a permanent measure taken by the government of Alenka Bratušek. At least from my point of view, I believe that at least within the coalition you need to unify – a reduction in value added tax, with the change proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party, what will be the impact on public finances. The Secretary of State talked about more than 500 million euros – I wonder where he got this number?–, Desus talks about 300 million, and I think another coalition party mentioned a similar amount of 300 million. That means you can see here that the coalition is, I'd say, completely dismembered. The Secretary of State is talking about 500 million, the coalition is talking about 300 million. It's not, I'd say, just for the return of value added tax to the pre-crisis level. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we propose the introduction of a new reduced rate, a new reduced rate of value added tax to 5%, following the example of some European countries. In this category of second reduced rates, we place the inclusion of products, products that are essential for life. Food, school supplies, electricity. And two reduced rates, one rate of 5 % taxation, the second rate of 8,5 means reduction, now it's 9.5. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that there is also enough information to be said if we look at the tax revenues, compared to 2014, this government has one and a half billion higher tax revenues. Just one and a half billion higher tax revenues. But you have a problem somewhere else, this coalition. Instead of providing a favourable or better life for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia as a whole, you promote one part of the segment. You're a drastic employee in public administration. All this revenue in the budget, which is increasing, the revenue in the budget is increasing mainly at the expense of the economy, this coalition of yours and your singing and drinking. I already said that when the budget was adopted. Look, 8,000 more employees in public administration. These are extreme numbers. This is just about the mass of wages, I would say, as if this VAT change had an impact. You have 8 thousand employees, but you can't tell for what. You have 1.5 billion more revenue from tax revenue; it is economic growth; on the other hand, look, you can't even draw on European funds. The 2014-2020 period for Slovenia provides for 3 billion European funding drawbacks. This government of yours, this coalition of yours, has so far managed to absorb about 70 million. 70 million! And you are saying how our proposal to reduce the value added tax would undermine public finances. You have the opportunity to draw on the resources and replace this failure, but not; you are actually increasing the expenditure from the larger employment budget, especially in the public administration. I really don't understand the view of Desus, who mentioned that this change for the rich would mean that we would be even richer for the poor to be even poorer. Behold, the distinguished representatives of Desus. The value added tax is the most disproportionate tax and the most unfair tax and, above all, the poorest and pensioners are the most vulnerable and, in particular, the pensioners you so advocate, the reduced VAT rate would bring the most. Not that you are saying that this measure that we are proposing today would make the rich even richer and the poor even poorer. That was in your position, in Desus' position. It's not! And I would say, even trade unions and all of them say that the increase in value added tax made as a permanent measure by this government, this coalition – Desus, Social Democrats and the Party of the Modern Centre – is most affected by the poorest and most vulnerable. I really don't understand, Madam Secretary of State, I really want to hear from you why the Republic of Slovenia cannot afford a reduction in the value added tax rate and where you calculated the loss of more than EUR 500 million. Here we listen to where the guarantee is that traders will pass the reduced tax rate on to lower prices, or say that traders will take care of their profits in such a way. That's not true! Only on oil derivatives could the matter be known substantially, on fuel oil, oil, gasoline and all. Electrics! They can't turn us into their profits here, because they're also regulated prices. Look, it's sad today that in Celovac, I don't know, a thousand litres of fuel oil costs more than 150 euros than in Murski Sobota, Kranj, Koper or Ljubljana. It is sad that today citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia fill their steel cavalry for 20 cents more per litre of oil than in Austria, when they have significantly higher revenues. And in many European countries, value added tax is lower. Most European countries have two reduced value added tax rates. This proposal would also introduce Slovenia – with a proposal from the Slovenian Democratic Party. Second reduced rate of value added tax of 5 %. These include mainly those essential necessities of life, such as food, bread, milk, school supplies, electricity. No! No! You, I would say, hold on to the fact that taxes must be increased, that an additional burden on the economy and, last but not least, on citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia should be increased. And you follow the classic policy you have chosen in this mandate, and this is an increase in taxes, an additional burden on the economy and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and an additional debt of the country. It is sad that this government of yours and this coalition sees taxes exclusively as a charge for the budget. See, a well-respected coalition, the tax should not only have the functions of budgeting, but must also have a developmental function. I would understand that you are increasing taxes and, on the other hand, returning them to citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia with new investments and new investments, but not. You are increasing taxes, and investments in the budget – let's look back – are shrinking dramatically during your term of office. Investment policy is shrinking dramatically. I will repeat once again what I have already said in the adoption of the budget and what I have said today; what the economy creates, this government sings and drinks. But when you eat and drink, then you come to the National Assembly and propose extra taxes and new taxes. Look what you've done during this term of office! You have also turned this most non-social value added tax into a permanent measure as a temporary measure. To a permanent measure. And here we should do something. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the time has come for the value added tax to be reduced, to be reduced to the pre-crisis level and to introduce further a second reduced rate for those of the most important living needs and services to 5%, as do some European countries.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mrs Urska Ban has the floor to prepare Mr Uroš Prikl. Mrs. Urska Ban, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, for your word. Today we are considering a proposal from the SDS Group, which concerns, as has already been said, a reduction in VAT rates. Let me first say that, today, with such content, we do not face similar content in this national assembly for the first time, we have already considered a number of such or similar proposals. Let me immediately say that I have not changed my own views on the reduction of VAT rates in this period of time, and that is why I will not vote in favour of this law. In his introduction to this Act, and even today in his presentation of views, the applicant stated that the VAT rates had increased by means of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2013 and 2014. This law was passed in May 2013, according to the previous composition of this Parliament. The applicant further stated that the Government, when proposing this law, had indicated that it was a temporary anti-crisis measure that would take two years to stabilise public finances. We have talked several times about how this step-up measure was at the time, either as a permanent or as a temporary measure. Today, I will still repeat some things because we obviously do not understand each other, we do not hear or understand each other only when we agree with certain views. Before this hearing today, I have looked again at the government's publicly available documents, from the 2013 Stability Programme forward to the 2013 and 2014 Budget Implementation Act, the Government's explanations to individual articles and also to the magnetograms of the then meetings, both the competent working body of the Finance Committee and the parliamentary sessions, and I must admit that these indications have been made by the Government that this measure will only apply for two years, I have not found in all these documents. This record, this commitment, this reference is not in these materials. On the contrary! The Stability Programme of May 2013 shows that the then government has indicated the creation of conditions both for stable economic growth and for the sustainable structural balance of public finances. In order to achieve these objectives, which were mentioned in the Stability Programme at the time, it proposed a series of measures both on the expenditure side and on the revenue side. I quote from the Stability Programme: "On the revenue side, two permanent measures will be the most important: raising the general VAT rate by 2 percentage points and reducing the rate by 1 percentage point and revamping the real estate taxation system." Thus, at that time, the Government in the Stability Programme stated that it was in some way a permanent measure. The financial imbalances raised at the time, including those described in detail in the Stability Programme, were too large to be fully balanced within two years. And now the question is why the Government had not already passed this amendment in the Value Added Tax Act, but it first legislated this amendment in the Budget Implementation Act, although the 2013 Stability Programme clearly states that the Law on Value Added Tax is the legal basis for this measure. I have read my explanation by then of Article 11 of the Budget Implementation Act 2013 and 2014, which states that, in accordance with Article 145(2) of the VAT Act, the VAT rate may be increased or reduced by 15% by the Budget Implementation Act. The current Minister of State, Mrs Mateja Vraničar Erman, explained at the meeting of the Finance Committee that this is an arrangement permitted by the Value Added Tax Act. She said that, without prejudice to the basic material tax law, the tax rate could be changed by up to 15% – that is to say the maximum of 3 percentage points at the general rate. However, the Government then decided to propose an increase from 20 to 22 and from 8.5 to 9.5. The Secretary of State further said, quote: “Of course, this is a solution that can only apply until the first amendment of the Value Added Tax Act, when it is necessary to transpose this solution into the Material Tax Law.” So that's when consciousness went into the solution I told her. If I go further, I also looked at the Government's Work Programme in 2013, and then the Added Value Tax Act was not on this work programme. For this reason, it is also likely that the decision to amend the Law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the next two years was taken, and later, as the Secretary of State had said at the time, the first amendment of the Value Added Tax Act would also result in the imposition of a penalty in the substantive legislation governing this area. What I wanted to say with this is that already this proposed measure was meant as one of the measures, of course in combination with others, which will lead to a permanent and gradual balance between our public finances. In my opinion, this measure should last at least until the objective already set in the Stability Programme has been achieved; it is said that until the structural balance of public finances is achieved. It is said that it was a permanent measure in terms of the objectives set at the time, or, if I say otherwise, the achievement of those objectives, which were already recorded in the Stability Programme in 2013. At least that's how I explain this document. Otherwise, sustainability is probably a relative term that is clearly interpreted by everyone. However, after all, no legal regime is likely to be permanent or definitively cemented, both the Value Added Tax Act and other laws are subject to such and other amendments. If this solution were to be permanently legalized, we would probably not even be able to discuss today that we are changing this solution, and we will talk about it for another four hours, and we will end up deciding whether or not to change this arrangement. Thus, I do not know exactly what the applicant meant by the fact that our government has consistently legislated higher VAT rates. As I said, in my view, this measure is permanent at least until we reach the goals we have set ourselves in terms of fiscal consolidation. This one is not finished today — I must say it. Thus, the state budget and the whole sector of the country, despite being able to say, the fourth year of economic growth and also the increase in employment and economic activity in this year, at the end of 2017, will continue to record the deficit. So we still spend more than we create, although I have to say, "Yes, we have higher revenues, we collect a lot of them, and there are still fewer planned revenues for 2017 than was created in 2008." The following year, in 2018, for the first time in ten years, we have a budget surplus of 0.4% of GDP. But in this case, when we report this information, it's a nominal surplus in the budget. However, when we adjust this surplus to the state of the economic cycle, that is to say, from the nominal to the cyclical adjusted balance, we find that we still have a deficit. When we correct this for a single event, we get to the structural balance, and it's still negative. Thus, even in 2018 we will still have a deficit. This is also crucial in this respect, as we have written ourselves into the Constitution. And we wrote down – quote – “The revenue and expenditure of the country’s budgets must be balanced in the medium term, without any debt, or the revenue must exceed the expenditure. This principle may only be temporarily derogated from in exceptional circumstances for the State.” And the country's budget after work for three and a half years, with its objectives set, in line with the rules, will be balanced in the medium term once the structural surplus is achieved, and this is planned for 2020. Indeed, as the Secretary of State said earlier, in 2015 we came out of the excessive deficit procedure when we reduced the balance or current deficit below 2.9%, but as I said, this is not the end or only goal, but some final objective is mainly to reduce the structural deficit, i.e. the structural effort must be 0.6% of GDP per year. We also have other open public financial items, if I say so myself. We still have a public debt that is higher than 60% of GDP and we must also reduce it by one twentieth of the excess debt per year, meaning 1.16% of GDP per year. Then there is the criterion of compliance with the spending rule when we have to reduce expenditure when cyclical expenditure is cleared. We are constantly reminded of this by the Fiscal Council, as well as in its assessments by the European Commission. Thus, it is clear from these, including the opinions or reports given to us by the Fiscal Council and the European Commission, that any additional reduction or only the revenue side or increase in the expenditure side alone constitutes a derogation from the planned financial consolidation. What I have said is that we are constantly being warned by both the Fiscal Council and the European Commission, and if I say so, we are already walking on their side. This measure, which is proposed today in the manner proposed – I will use this information, as stated by the Secretary of State – means a shortfall of EUR 550 million, would have the exact opposite effect, as I have said in line with this path of fiscal consolidation, both in terms of structural effort and structural deficit. Moreover, the reduction in taxes at the time of economic growth also acts pro-cyclically. And it is irresponsible that, immediately, the higher revenues that we record would reduce all kinds of taxes. Today we are talking about VAT, tomorrow or at the next session – the SDS proposal – the Income Act, then the Cadastrian Income Act, and then probably beyond the set of laws or measures that the SDS has already drawn up. Thus, we will significantly reduce this revenue on the side of the budget and, on the other hand, we would like to provide more for individual segments of public spending. When we propose such a proposal and do not say what and how we will finance public spending in our country, so how or will not, I don't know whether in any other way, we will continue to finance others or those groups to which a certain proportion of the budget is allocated, but I can talk about social transfers, health spending, education, how we will continue to reduce public debt, how we will get to the structural balance of the budget until then, in my opinion, it is the least I can say, that such a proposal is irresponsible to propose. Since these measures are not proposed, in my view, in this case the tax reduction today is only for a time delay that someone, people, will probably have to collect and pay once in the future. In the past, we have already reached the maximum of public debt, 80% or even more in the proportion of GDP, all of which have already been put into great imbalances, high annual deficits, deficits that the state should not have already afforded itself at that time. This country has already made a significant contribution to the area of taxation once, if we remember the corporate income tax, the salary tax, the social contributions of employers, and so on, and at the same time no action has been taken on the expenditure side. Then, at about the same time, the crisis came along and the way forward is known to us. When we think about lowering taxes, we have to have it all in front of us so that somehow we don't find ourselves in some spiral again recklessly, if I say so, because in the end, as I said, people pay for it all. In some ways, however, I agree that, as I said, we will achieve a structurally balanced budget for 2020, and we will also have to have a broad debate on what are the most appropriate measures in the field of tax policy that would lead to both greater economic growth and a fairer distribution of tax burdens. This debate, it is said to be a comprehensive debate, should certainly be held before such a partial amendment of individual laws dealing in a partial way with a particular area of tax policy. It is also likely that, in the context of this debate, I think, we should first face those measures where we have some non-competitive conditions in this country or, in comparison with other countries, we have disproportionate taxation. We have often talked here about being one of those that is disproportionately taxed, especially work. In this mandate, because of what I have said, the tax policy measures were focused or related because they were subordinated to the objective of fiscal consolidation, mainly related to the restructuring of the tax burdens, then to improving the efficiency of the collection of public levies and the elimination of administrative burdens. In these respects, the Government proposed certain amendments to the National Assembly, and they were also adopted in the National Assembly. If I mention some: adjustment of the scale, unloading of the award for business performance, international assignments from abroad to Slovenia, from Slovenia to abroad, and scientists who have received lower burdens through special relief, as well as those who receive the lowest income when talking about general relief, and additional relief from the current stage to the federal. If I also slowly conclude in this place that it is right to look at, at first glance, at such proposals as we are dealing with today, at the very least very popular, a little longer than just the first one, and to lead fiscal policy more accountable to people. [[…]] As I have already said, even past, such or different, responsible or irresponsible decisions that have led us to a huge debt, to huge high deficits, to billions of interest obligations in the state budget, were ultimately paid by people and people were deprived of social transfers, pensions, wages and so on. Again: I will not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr Uroš Prikl has the floor to prepare Mr Matjaž Han and Dr Ange Logar. Here you go, Mr. Prickl.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u136	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! Ambassadors and Members of the Desus Group have not been able to convince them, so we have already rejected the proposal on the home working body. I have now read this, and I have quoted how we reacted to the Desus Group in some way two months ago when the VAT rebate initiative was proposed by the independent Member of the Czech Republic. Today, it proposes to amend the VAT reduction of the SDS Group, and there is virtually no difference, except in the segment where the proposer proposes a new, third rate value added tax when it comes to 5 % taxation for articles, food, medical equipment, renovations, repairs of dwellings and so on and so on. Only at this point could I say that this bill is positive and should be considered only on this segment, perhaps to consider, I will go a step further in order to bring this tax down to zero for really the most elementary and necessary real minimum taxes. However, when we talk about this reduction and the basic and reduced value added tax rates again to 20 and 8,5 %, there are only a few findings, which have been practically all said in the positions of both our and other non-supporting groups. I am personally firm in this position that a reduction in VAT will not absolutely bring lower prices. All traders also have this opportunity to increase margins in their pricing policy. That's the first thing. Secondly, it should be known that all these products are not of the same elasticity, that it is necessary to see which products are more elastic, which are less elastic and one more concrete analysis of what this means when income is lost. Not to be forgotten, there was a speech earlier about whether it was 300 million, or whether it was 500 million, that we were a little "declared" in the coalition, that we didn't know what it was. We have been prepared by professional services and those with all relevant data, but the assessment of the financial implications, and somehow for about 300 million is the income drop, the financial implications for the change of 22 to 20 and 9.5 to 8.5, the other one, the remainder will be half billion, and of course this new tax rate, the new VAT for 5% of the products already mentioned. Of course, I agree that if you lower some tax, you have to replace it adequately with another tax. Remember how ugly we were when we raised the profit tax. Again, there have been comparisons with different European countries; but look at it, a fraction, then all those countries have been listed that have lower taxes, but not those countries that also have less, higher taxes. I have also heard today to quote countries, indeed there are many who have lower value added tax, basic and reduced, but we have not mentioned countries that have higher value added tax, which is of course purely legitimate. At this point, I will not embark on any ideological level and will not dispute with the applicant whether this is legitimate, whether this is right or not, or whether it is serious that such a law is proposed. That's true; it's legitimate, anyway. I also believe that seriously, because the proposaler is trying to convince the majority of Members in this national assembly, in a way, that this is justified from a specific point of view. But I wonder, and here I find it crucial to explain why we will not support this law in Desus. Look, it's very uncomfortable to talk, and I'm also now in this position that I'm not a supporter of lowering tax burdens. It's not a very nice thing. You're the nicest, you're the best, when you say we're going to cut this tax down to 20%, let's cut it to 15%! And the lower one, let's give it to 6.7%, it's even more like it! But, of course, I am aware that in every budget, both family, both local and state budget, there is always a kind of weighting between income and expenditure. If we have so much and so much loss at the income level, it's simply impossible to share money then. It will be impossible to talk about the increase in pensions, which are bloodthirsty increases, we all know that and we explained to you the last time why and how. Some family transfers also need to be increased, and some social transfers need to be increased. Personally and the Desus Group would also, of course, wish that the least paid, both public servants and real-sector employees, would have their minimum wages increased so that they could live with dignity – not all the other transfers provided by the state, but simply if we reduce revenue here for so many and so many millions a year, then we who support the proposal of this law will tell us how we will make up for it. With some kind of time delay? That's impossible! There'll be half a million, sorry, half a billion less today. How are we going to give money social assistance, how are we going to pay higher pensions, how are we going to introduce the seventh and eighth grades of the children's allowance if there's a drop in revenue in the state budget, or at least 300 million if that's easier for you to hear? Easy, that's impossible. I wonder how we're going to become and remain a social state, if we're still saving the tortures on the weakest, the tortures, this famous ZUJF we're softening, and we're trying to undo it somehow, and now we're not. Even now some benefits are still in the midst of this ZUJF, and the time is yes, but here I also agree with those that all people are somehow entitled to some re-release of these transfers, as economic growth is very good for us. To summarize everything. Tell me what the alternative is if we support this law. Is there an alternative to increasing any other tax and which tax is this and how much, or is the alternative to reducing transfers to individuals and households, paying public servants, officials and so on? I estimate that there is no need to reduce the rate of value added tax, since it is then impossible to pay, as it is appropriate for a social state, those transfers to the individuals to be paid, because they themselves fail on the market for such or other reasons to provide resources for normal life. After all of this and what has already been said – and I will not repeat here in the position presented by my colleague Kovačičeva in the introduction – I will not support the proposed amendments to the Value Added Tax Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr Jernej Vrtovec and Mr State Secretary have the floor. Here you go, Mr. Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u138	Thank you, Chairman. I'm going to finish or I'm going to start with some statement my colleague Prikl made, and I have to admit, I don't understand it. In fact, in defence of not supporting the lower tax rate, he said, "I will not go down to the ideological level." Your Honor, where did you find an ideological level in the VAT law? But you've been avoiding that in the proposal that talks about taxes, you actually touch each and every one of us, you find ideology. The difference between the perception of one country and another is whether someone advocates a lean country and trusts the abilities of people or all bets on a comprehensive country that knows everything about what is right, and also on this basis redistributes the income that he takes from those he knows everything about. I must admit that I am surprised at these verbal acrobatics of the coalition when they are trying to justify why they will not support the VAT reduction. The reason that the applicant did not list those countries with higher VAT is, however, irrelevant. If there are many countries with lower VAT, it is clear that we will aim to make Slovenia the most favourable country for life, not the contrary, that Slovenia will be the country that will collect as much as possible. 2008 was the last pre-crisis year, I don't know if you remember, the decade passed, but it was a year or a period when people lived well. 2007, 2008, prosperity time. You will not believe this, but during that period, about EUR 500 million was collected and people lived well. So with 500 million less, with 500 million more wont to live well. It is not necessary for the country to be swallowed up as much as possible because it has greater power because it is the saving one that redistributes nations’ income. It's not. It's a matter for every individual to have more in his wallet. A lively debate on how minimum wages do not reach life or poverty levels – for 2 euros there is a difference. Yesterday we had a debate and also a vote on this topic on a minimum wage. Do you know that if you support this reduced VAT law, you will only allow a four-member family to meet the minimum wage poverty threshold for those 2 euros a month? Isn't that social redistribution? But bread is the basic food item everyone needs, the ones who have less income that they can't afford anymore, much more. With this you will go to those for whom you so like to sing and now you do not want to admit it because you do not want to lower their tax rate. Or, for example, heating – you do not want to go across from paying a lower tax rate for heating, an elementary need for life to live in a warm home. There's a whole bunch of stories where people can't afford electricity to heat up. You can install a heat pump because you have enough resources, someone else has to heat up with that electric radiator, and because it's irrational and expensive, they just can't afford to live in the cold. But here you would have at least a lower tax rate for this kind of electricity, and you're giving it up because you're saying you won't go to ideology. The chief of the Finance Committee, who had just arrived, said it was irresponsible to propose such a law — why? Why is that? If we have lived with such tax inflows in 2008, we can also 2018, a decade later, I assure you. And that is a delay that someone will have to pay in the future — that is not true. If we lived in 2006, 2007, 2008 with significantly lower VAT revenues, we can do so today. It is true, however, that in this mandate, this government, which consists of a coalition or a party to which you belong, has hired 8,000 additional employees. This is a tax that will be paid by future generations! And every month! 8 thousand additional jobs that you have produced require 20 million additional taxpayers each month. Would a person who could afford more bread because of a lower tax rate be happier because of 8,000 additional jobs or would it mean more to him to buy cheaper bread? Tell me. And with regard to elasticity, inelasticity, if we use these terms, Mr Prikl, bread is the most inelastic in the lower layers, they need it to survive, and it would help them the most. Most of it. And also to all those pensioners for whom you stand and then pay 1.2 euros a higher pension. To them, the 2 euros per month due to the lower bread tax would in fact bring more than your increase in your pension. More. If you are thinking – earlier in this direction – in order to support this proposal, I appeal to you to do so, not only do you say you are advocating for the lowest layers, but also to support it. For this law goes especially with this reduced tax rate for food, for heating, for medical supplies, and so on to those who cannot afford anything that can only be someone who has better living conditions. You have read from the Government's point of view that a reduction in VAT will not result in a reduction in prices. There is competition on the market, and at the time when one in the catalogue announces that, due to a reduction in VAT, it will also lower the price of bread, flour, eggs and some electricity provider to pour it into lower electricity prices, haha, everyone will follow it, believe me. For if they do not, they will all go, or at least those who count the euro every month, to the one who offers the cheapest electricity, or to the one who will lower the price or who will take account of this price cut, and the market will do its part. But it is true, and here you may then bump into that ideology of yours, that in the perception of a country that knows everything and who is the only one that is able to say what is right, you may not be counting on this market factor, that the market operators are nevertheless market-oriented and that they are willing to lower the margin to attract additional consumers, and precisely because of the economies of scale, because of the increased sales of products at the end of the bargain. The lower VAT rate, the lower the price, I assure you that it will sell more than those who will socialistly insist on high prices and want to place themselves with a higher margin. I assure you, as I am sitting here, and as you are now listening, support the law, in one year, if we sit in here, compare the numbers, and I assure you that what I say today will prove to be true. So I suggest that you are not exclusive already in advance and that you do not overly close the manoeuvre space, in the future you pay great attention to how you expand the public administration and how much more you are employed in public administration, and that you are primarily acting in the direction of good for people, so that they will already know what is right, you only provide them with enough savings and that they will have more in their wallets, not that you redistribute the profits that they have ultimately created in their name. I suggest you support this bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u139	Mr Jernej Vrtovec has the floor to prepare the Secretary of State Mr Tilen Bozič and Mr Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u140	Thank you very much, President. In 2013, when Slovenia was actually at the bottom and when the Slovenian economy was on the dog, the government of Alenka Bratušek decided on this measure, and at that time in the opposition we warned that, despite everything and despite the economic situation which was extremely poor, there are still no valid reasons for VAT to increase. And they weren't. They were not, for consumption on the other hand is shrinking. Today, when we have positive economic activities, when economic growth is truly exceptional and also external circumstances in the world show that this economic growth will continue in 2018, and we are very conservative about taxes and again on the other hand, contributions. Who is the most deserving of this economic growth? Who creates this added value? Real economy, entrepreneurs, craftsmen and their employees. If we look at the financial policy of this government or just the last budget – do we give these people something back? Should we give the economy something back? Are we returning anything to employees in the economy because of their productivity? No, no, no. On the other hand, it is clear from the budget that there is an increase in expenditure, more staff in public administration, and we are spending as much as possible. From those temporary measures in the government of Alenka Bratušek, who has truly ruled in difficult times, in the times of the dry cows, we have taken the view that this VAT rate will be a long-term measure. In fact, we are looking very short-term in this way, because we are looking at how we will get as much money as possible in our small ones and, on the other hand, without a vision, how to generate more productivity with lower taxes and otherwise fill the state budget. From 2016 to 2019, the government foresees almost €70 million in budget expenditure. This further confirms the Government’s intention to spend, but on the other hand let us ask ourselves – because we have positive economic growth, but on what basis is this positive economic growth? I reiterate, and again, to those who care for this economic growth, we do not return or devote anything entirely, not by reducing taxes on wages or contributions, nor to ordinary people, the poorest or most vulnerable, who also contribute to this economic growth. Therefore, the lower VAT is actually intended for everyone, and that at the time 2013 came to a higher VAT is the most problematic, since the poorest groups of people are the most vulnerable. Indeed, those who spend almost 100 % of their expenditure on consumption are referred to as basic survival, essentially paying VAT in full. All of it! It also spends so much and so much of its expenditure on VAT payments. But those who don't need to do so, who also saves money, are much better than those who are poorer than those who pay VAT. I don't understand, in particular, Desus here, how you can't afford the pensioners to save money. Easy. And with the VAT, with this law before us today, we would do much more for Slovenian pensioners, for their savings than, for example, when we give them 2 euros a month with a measure – my fellow Horvat would say, 2 cupcakes of ice cream – we will give them. Only this law would do much more for the most sensitive citizens and citizens who spend 100% of their expenditure on consumption. This means that VAT strikes them the most, because all their expenditure is, of course, taxed on VAT. What, though, is crucial when we are able to reduce VAT? Bigger consumption! And the greater the consumption, the more people will be satisfied, and on the other hand, the country will bring this money into the state small in any other way. In any other way, because the country certainly has these options. What is the proposal of New Slovenia, we are also speaking according to our programme, is that, with lower tax burdens, in particular with lower VAT, we are most likely to return to the most deserving of positive economic activities. Indeed, there are no valid proposals, no arguments to insist on the same arguments as in 2013 or early 2014, when the tax rate rose. In New Slovenia, we really yearn for reason in this Parliamentary Chamber, in particular when we talk about taxes and in this regard about positive economic growth.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u141	Mr Tilen Bozič, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, has the floor. Prepare Mr Tomaž Gantar and Mr Jani Möderndorfer. Here you go, Mr. Tillen Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u142	Thank you for your word. Some interesting things have been said, in particular I will try to give some additional information, which I think are also important for you Members to discuss and decide that there will be no confusion, especially as regards the numbers mentioned and so on. But first of all, I have to deny that there are high taxes in Slovenia, and it is often mentioned that they may even be the highest and so on. I'd just put it in the context somehow, so you can see how we are in relation to the surrounding countries. The share of taxes in GDP is a gross social product, if we look at it, the Republic of Slovenia is moving around 37%. If we look at our Austrian neighbours, they are almost 44%, which is much more than Slovenia. If we look at Germany, about 39%, as mentioned above, are about 37%, we say 2 percentage points are lower. Hungary is treated in the same way as Germany, about 39%, in Croatia there is little above us, from about half a percentage point to one percentage point, and below 38%. For Italy it was already, I think, about 43% mentioned. It is said that this claim, when we look at the surrounding countries, if we look at regional competitiveness and so on, is not true. But there is another thing about how we have a tax structure, and here, when we compare ourselves with some other countries, we are a little uncomfortable. This is why we are also seeking restructuring in the field of tax policy, which is why we often talk about what the burden of work is, that work needs to be burdened and so on, that we can increase competitiveness in this way. Even if we go to look in the last two years, which was, say, a shift in workload, if we add up last year and this year's restructuring, the workload, we estimate, is lower by about 130 million euros, slightly more than 100 for those changes that have entered into force 1. 1. 2017, an additional approximately 25 million over the next year. So we are aware of these problems and we are also addressing them, and for this reason we are looking for the competitive position we need. Given how exports are going and how our country is doing, I think we are doing well in this, including in cooperation with the economy. From here on, some other things were said, especially in the case of VAT. Despite the fact that I think the Chairman of the Finance Committee has already commented on this subject, I would like to reiterate that this government has changed VAT rates from a temporary to a permanent measure, once again that the 2013 Stability Programme document already states that it is a permanent measure. It was only because of the obvious current problem at the time, and we can call it administrative, that this was regulated in a law that normally does not. But even then, with the behaviour to move into that law which is intended to do so, the VAT law is true, and these rates, which have already been declared and explained as a permanent structural measure, have been introduced into the law in which they must also go. I would like to make some clarifications on the numbers below, given that it has been pointed out that there may be some confusion as to which number is valid, which one is not. Two key figures are €300 million and about €250 million. The first refers, as mentioned earlier, to the reduction in those rates, from 22 to 20 and from 9.5 to 8.5, it is said that the existing rates would be reduced. The estimated impact at the annual level is around €300 million, as you know, if this were to be implemented by 1. 1. 2018, the VAT bill would be issued at the end of February when you, for example, submit it for January. For this reason, there is also some monthly delay and this would result in an impact of between 270 million and 280 million in the first year, but on average at an annual level of around 300. However, the second part of the impact concerns the introduction of an additional lower rate of 5 % for the proposed supplies. In this case, this would mean about EUR 250 million. If I divide this into different components, we can say that there would be a large part of the impact, estimated at around EUR 142 million, on the basis of the introduction of a 5% VAT rate for those supplies currently taxed at a general rate of 22%. Of this large part, EUR 117 million, represents a reduction in the rate of supply of electricity, natural gas and district heating, and the remaining EUR 104 million at the expense of an additional reduction in the VAT rate. The biggest contribution would be a reduction in VAT on food and medicine supplies, estimated at about €63 million. So the total, as mentioned above, is around €550 million, which is large. From here on, I would like to point out how trends are currently taking place in the European Union as regards VAT rates. The latest changes that should be highlighted are, for example, related to Greece when they come from 1. 6. 2016 raise the overall rate from 23 to 24 %. Austria has introduced an additional lower rate, similar to today's proposed rate of 13% for certain supplies previously taxed with a rate of 10%. So it doesn't go in terms like this, one rate from 9.5 to 8.5, and then it goes down to 5, but it's actually the rate they already have, 10%, another 13%, so it's higher. From here on out, if we were looking at Romania, maybe I'd put it in a different category. This is the only country that has decided to reduce this general rate, they've gone 1. 1. 2017 from 20% to 19. But before that, they went from 24 to 20 in 2010. Nevertheless, in this country, I would like to point out that it is precisely in the field of VAT that it has very serious problems. In Romania, about 37% is the ratio between the theoretical VAT capacity that they could collect and what they actually collect. If we look at the Republic of Slovenia, we are almost ten times lower, it is said to be about 5.5%, that is the gap between theoretical capabilities and what is actually coming out, which is about half of what is average in the European Union. Thus, Germany and many other countries are worse off in terms of performance than the Republic of Slovenia, it is clear that we have a relatively well-established system and that the results are improving over time. From here on out, I might give another less insight into one other aspect. It was mentioned that many countries have two reduced rates. Of course that's true, but I'd point out one thing to another. As has already been said, the proposal that we have on the table suggests that we have two reduced rates, one would be 5, one 8.5%, and the one standard or general 20%. If we look at those who have two reduced rates, we can see that a large majority of these rates are higher than proposed in this proposal. If we look at Belgium, say 6 and 12, mentioned earlier, for Slovenia proposed 5 and 8.5. If we look at the Czech Republic, 10% and 15%, if we look at Greece 6% and 13%, if we look at France, 5.5% and 10%, Croatia 5 and 13, Ireland 9 and 13,5, Italy 5 and 10, Cyprus 5 and 9, Lithuania 5 and 9, Hungary 5 and 18, mentioning one interestingness, the overall rate is 27%. From here on out, if we go to look again, Portugal 6 and 13, Finland 10 and 14, Sweden 6 and 12 and so on. So that's quite something, but I would certainly not be selective here, mention others, because, I mentioned, some of them are different. So here it is certainly worth mentioning Poland, they are at 5 and 8%, Malta, 5 and 7%. These are, for example, those that are to be exhibited on the other side. It is true, however, that even in the area of VAT collection they have more problems than Slovenia, especially if we go to look at Malta if I remember correctly. From here on out, another thing that's a little bit interesting to me, historically. If we go back a while, 10 years or more ago, I think there were 12 of them, then there was one initiative or initiative on a uniform tax rate, and that's when today's proponent saw these things slightly differently, not in three stages, but in one and one degree. Thus, since then, there has been a change here, probably even in the spirit of what has been mentioned, it is said that VAT is somewhat unfavourable in terms of the social impact it causes. So it is likely that this thought of them has been established here, and this is probably a step in a different direction from what was said a while ago. From here on out, I'd like to go on some other business. As far as the stability of public finances is concerned, these are in the consolidation phase and this balance has finally been captured for a very long time. This is because when it comes to the income and expenditure levels of such large discregants as Slovenia has received, the consequences can be severe. Where do they look? This is the only way to quickly see debt in GDP. If you go to look at the numbers we have recently, the government is relatively successful in controlling this. If we go to look at where we had our peak in 2015, with almost 83% of the debt share in GDP, I would point only to the Maastricht criterion, which points to stability and allows us to join the euro, which is set at 60%, which is also the target value that we must pursue after at least one twentieth of a year from the difference that the rules within the European Union impose. In 2016, we reduced this to 78,5 in 2017, it is expected that this will be 75,2 and 72 % of GDP in 2018. This is what I would specifically point out — that the debt we have is essentially a pre-used tax inflow that was not there. This also needs to be remedied, it needs to come to a green branch, because the next recession is going to happen and then it is necessary to have a room of manoeuvre for countercyclical measures. What do I mean? If there are countercyclical measures on the one hand, we have cyclical measures on the other. A cyclical measure is that when you are doing well or doing very well, you reduce taxes, and then when you get into recession, it means that when you overheat, the growth will become even more overheating, and then that fall will be significantly higher when you get into recession. In that recession that happened to us, as you know, there have been cycles of action again. We as a country have come into a situation when we went down twice, this double V has happened, even because some of the measures that have been taken have had an additional cyclical impact and stimulated movements in a direction that was probably not the best. For this reason, I would say that what usually connects: “Decree taxes, you will raise tax revenues”, I think Slovenia has tried both matters in practice. She lowered taxes, saw what the result was, raised taxes in recession, saw what the result was. So we have these moments to look out for, to be careful because ultimately the worst comes from people. From here on out, maybe a few more things. It was said that a better life should be taken care of by citizens and citizens. I think this government is working on it. It was said that only at the expense of employment in the public sector, 8 000 jobs were mentioned – I would point to one thing. In public administration, it is said that what is understood in some way as officialism, there is a situation such as it was, or even a slight decrease. Where, though, did the number of employees increase? Right where services are provided to citizens and citizens. We can watch the police, health, education and so on. It is said, in those elements where, after it is said, someone would give the euro or two more for this or that, they actually indirectly provide for those services that this country then also provides, and also because of what is in some way the purpose of collecting and paying taxes. So I would point out, however, that it is not here in the sense that 8,000 or as many people have already been hired, for which they may not even know what to do. They have been employed where it has been estimated that services intended for citizens may be somewhat weak, human resources-supported, and the aim has been to provide additional staff to ensure that citizens have as much of the resources as possible. Here's a little something else, and then I'll finish. It has been said about the most appropriate way, saying as soon as possible more money into the small country, more budgetary expenditure and so on. As it is said, budgetary expenditure rises more slowly than revenue rises, or income rises rapidly precisely to achieve stability. However, there are several ways in which citizens and citizens try to help themselves, saying how they redistribute themselves. One is through the tax system, in addition to VAT you also have income on income, as mentioned above, several steps have been taken to relieve it. Furthermore, how solidarity is ensured – in addition to the internet, taxes and contributions, also on the basis of transfers provided precisely to those in need and from here on out, even if we look at certain prices of services. Someone who is in a worse situation, even over the cost of kindergarten and so forth, is in a more favourable position or relieved position. That's just it. It is not a simple system, it is a complex system, and when it is changing and recasting it, it is important to be very careful in these matters, because one of the guidelines also advocated by the European Union, and you will probably hear it from the OECD, is that this growth must be set so that people or some would not remain behind, it is true, we must also move forward as a society together. As far as the Ministry of Finance's orientations are concerned, when we look at the structure of duties, I would point out, as I said at the outset, that we are aware that it is one of the problems, including in terms of competitiveness, the burden of work, which is why it remains, we can say, the first priority when we think about how to address or what to do on restructuring. This is also the future goal of reducing the burden of work, and citizens and citizens can benefit from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u143	The text shall be by the representative of the proposer of the magi. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u144	Mr President, thank you for saying so. I will respond very briefly to the debate held by the Secretary of State. The Secretary of State has taken on segments what fiscal impact would be on the budget and how little revenue would be. If you've calculated this matter so accurately, I'd like to know if you've calculated another segment. In the case of value added tax, we know that the actual effect is only for the final consumer, that it does not affect the business and economic balance, because we know that this is also the so-called entry and exit tax, that it is actually only a final consumer tax and, of course, a public sector. The public sector does not have the right to repay this measure. In the event of a reduction in value added tax, the distinguished Secretary of State, did you calculate how much less public sector outflows would then be there? Since you calculated only this positive part, you did not calculate how much for the public sector, which does not have the right to refund value added tax. If you can answer or at least provide an assessment of how much this would be reduced for the public sector in the event of our proposal, that the value added tax should be reduced to a pre-crisis level or that an additional reduced rate of 5% should be introduced.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u145	Mr. Tomaž Gantar has the floor. Prepare Mr Jani Möderndorfer and Mrs Suzanne Lep Šimenka. Here you go, Mr. Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u146	Thank you very much, President. Colleagues and colleagues and representatives of the government have a nice greeting! The proposal to lower VAT rates is sound. And even the calculations that have been presented or the calculation can be made quickly, as you said, more consumption will make up for and compensate for the budget outage and we are somewhere on the existing one and people will work better. Of course, in my opinion, this is not how this is done. There's a number of assumptions that can't resist a little more serious judgment. If I can start by saying that Slovenia is, of course, a social state, then it is also increasingly difficult to compare with countries that actually give more to us than to the weakest groups, to those who are at risk, to the pensioners and so on. As a percentage, these numbers are, of course, lower than in EU Member States, in most cases, that I am not talking about health care, where we give from the budget practically at least. And if we look on the other hand at the fact that these tax revenues are one of the more important also for the provision of a social state, then it is difficult to see how to make up for the exit of 550 million, which would have been assessed by the Ministry of Finance. The situation deteriorated during the economic and financial crisis, when both VAT rates were temporarily raised, for most categories of the population, by paying a high price to those who are still living significantly worse today, whether they are wages or pensions, below the poverty threshold and who, even those economic growth that is exceptional at that time, are not feeling properly. There have been some minor harmonisations in terms of extraordinary reconciliation of pensions, including salaries and so forth, but in fact to a lesser extent. It is hard to imagine that with the measure you are proposing and with the arguments you are presenting, I must say that in at least a slightly misleading way – you are always arguing with arguments based on a reduction, especially a lower VAT rate. It would probably be a big dilemma on its own whether to support or not if we were talking only about a lower VAT rate or the introduction of an additional reduced VAT rate. In this case, of course, I have no major dilemma. Why do I think the math doesn't work? Firstly, it is easy to assume that the lowering of VAT will also reduce the prices of services and other goods at the existing level, and it is likely that there is a assumption that there is no very solid foundation and foundation. We are talking about companies, we are talking about private law companies, we are talking about services where the country does not have its own control, we are talking about a number of areas where we actually have absolutely no control over the fact that prices would actually remain reduced by this percentage of VAT. It is more likely that margins will rise and prices will remain unchanged, and there will also be no greater consumption. For me, therefore, the logic of lowering tax duties, and thus the expectation of higher consumption at the expense of lower prices, is that it does not drink water. The possibility of increased economic growth or increased consumption, especially private spending, is seen mainly in higher productivity, higher wages and then higher spending, but not in an account without innkeepers, so that prices will be reduced on the basis of lower VAT, because there is not one appropriate strong argument that this would actually remain. Thus, a much more likely scenario is that there would be a higher or lower drop in tax revenue in the budget, which is, of course, unacceptable for several reasons. We, too, as a coalition partner, who, after all, supported either that the VAT has been temporarily raised or changed into a permanent solution, would seem rather unrealistic if we were to defend this solution and, on the other hand, demanded, I don't know, raise the minimum wage, extraordinary coordination of pensions and everything that goes with it. Certainly an improvement in the lives of those living below the poverty line today. Then it is likely that there is always an up-to-date and important argument that the country must, and probably is, the one that is fit to reduce its public debt. Thus, the arguments why we need such a budget or even greater and why tax revenues must be as much as they are today are likely to be. As I said, I would personally be in a serious dilemma and a problem, or I would probably support the proposal if only a reduction in the VAT rate or the introduction of another low VAT rate were proposed. Here I will intervene a little, if not another, when we are paying basic necessities of life, where there is no guarantee, but where the country has control and where it solves the problem, one of these areas that I know well is health – health has been raised in the last round of about 30 million. I speak more as I say, but the fact is that there has indeed come the biggest health intrusion with the introduction of VAT, with which health care has lost virtually 800, 900 million a year, and at that time health problems have begun and today we have no answer as to how we will solve them and finance them. As it is said, Slovenia is the country that contributes at least from the budget and offers the most to people. In this case, I do not know if this is possible, the arguments have always been that the Republic of Slovenia has not, or has agreed on, third rates of VAT in the past when this tax was introduced, but in any case, it would be worth considering that in reality it would be possible to relieve at least a certain category of residents. However, I certainly do not see any intelligent argument in the overall reduction of VAT. On the contrary. Also about new jobs and salaries, which have been declared unnecessary by the State and what money is spent on. In part, I think that we will have to do much more in this area, especially in the field of variable work, and in this case additional employment will probably not be required to that extent. Certainly, today, such a proposal as we have on the table, with vague calculations, I cannot support vague assumptions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u147	Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor to prepare Mrs Suzanne Lepi Šimenka and Mr Janko Weber. Here you go, Mr. Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u148	Thank you very much, President. This discussion is interesting so that we can discuss some of the things that have happened in the past, and it is particularly interesting when proposed by the opposition. I am talking about the part where, in fact, every time a government meets a budget, and not least by implementing its policies, it has to first define how it will do it and what it will do. Those who care and are the only proponent of the budget or the rebalancing procedure would, in my view, be my own personal opinion, the only one qualified to propose changes in tax policy. It's different today. Legislation may be amended by the Government or amendments may also be proposed by a member of the National Assembly, a legislative body, and here I am convinced that it is a kind of anomaly. It is difficult for me to imagine that he is proposing a change in the tax policy of the opposition, in the Government, which would like to carry out, and not least has the only serious and accurate review of the overall tax policy and of all the indicators necessary for him to carry out the budgetary policy at all. But the problem is somewhere else. It is interesting why this proposal for a law did not appear before the adoption of a rebalancing, when one would say that this is a kind of serious approach, because you know that if such a law were to be adopted, then we should go straight to the rebalancing and decide on certain things to do, whether or not we will cut off or settle ourselves in further debt or certain things so that this policy will be implemented. And that doesn't bother me, especially because – a little bit earlier in the answer, we heard a very broad and comprehensive answer to a few questions and dilemmas presented by the Secretary of State, by the way, my daughter would say that "he fell in" with this experience of an explanation, which, of course, was in place – is another problem somewhere else. I see the problem mainly in the point where the proposaler announced that it was a so-called temporary measure when VAT rose. It would be unfair and unfair if those of us who then decided to raise VAT did not say out loud what was really happening at the time. While the debate was on the committee, I am sorry that there are empty benches here today and that the bench itself of Ambassador Alenka Bratušek, who was then Prime Minister and, last but not least, of the VAT raiser. I don't know. She doesn't want to face the cruel reality she was then. I think that she took this step completely justifiably, but today she's not. But I'll tell you what happened back then. We had three choices back then. One option was to introduce a so-called crisis tax, which would be of a temporary nature, and this was more than clearly defined. Another option was to raise VAT in just one part, that is to say in one stage, and the third option was to fully raise VAT. If we did not do this with an empty bag and with the prior call of the troika and their supreme leader, who called at least three times, a failed threesome to rule the Republic of Slovenia and decide on policies. Of course, there had to be a rapid and effective measure on how to raise funds. I remember when we sat down with the then Prime Minister, with the Minister of Finance, Mr Cuffer, here in the National Assembly before the decision. At that time, one very clear answer was when we discussed what action should be taken. Then Minister Cuffer – on the same day, I also talked to him, but we did not know that he would be again, with the former Minister of Finance, who was later in the next government responsible for the financial work which, of course, confirmed this theory – the crisis tax would only mean a temporary solution, because when he did, we would have to find a new compensation for the facts stated by the Secretary of State, so that we would have to pay back, of course, what we owed. You remember that this was not the only action at the time. During the same year, we discussed the real estate tax, where the state sought an additional 200 million while already raising VAT. 200 million would go to the local level and 200 million would go to the state treasury. No one talks about this, but later because of the constitutional decision, because the law passed by the SDS government or the then parliament, this evaluation was not even valid in real estate law. That is why, of course, we had to find these funds again elsewhere. Today to say that raising VAT was a temporary measure is unfair and unfair to citizens because you are misleading them. This was no temporary measure. Last but not least, I don't know the case that anywhere in the European Union where they raised VAT, they said it was a temporary measure. I can agree with the debate in that part that we could have a different tax system, but this certainly cannot be proposed by the opposition and certainly not only in VAT but should be taken in full. Here I support the Secretary of State when he says that it is a comprehensive system where the effects are very broad, and it should also be appropriate to prepare such a amendment only when we have a complete analysis and a comprehensive system at the same time. At the same time, if we did, a new budget rebalancing is ready, because otherwise it means collapse. Nevertheless, I respect Mr Pogačnik, but I understand that we are 5 months ahead of the elections and that this is a topic, as when we say that we are lowering taxes or that we will or have proposed a reduction in taxes, and "look, look, look, these are from a coalition that does not want to hear anything, but when we are in power, we will lower VAT". In case you succeed, colleague Pogačnik, I wonder if you'll be proposing that.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u149	The text shall be by the representative of the proposer of the magi. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u150	President, thank you for your word. Very briefly – of course we will. If we win elections to win elections, this is also recorded in our programme. This means that we will reduce the value added tax and introduce an additional reduced rate of tax of 5%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u151	Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenka has the floor to prepare Mr Janko Weber and Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat. Here you go, Mrs. Susanna Beautiful Chimenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u152	Thank you so much for saying that. I must say that in some ways I am saddened by what I am listening to here today in the National Assembly, by the statements, as in the very opinions of some left-wing parties, that the burden of the weakest would be even greater so that those with lower incomes would be more affected. I really can't imagine what the logic of the economy is for this part to work. Why? VAT is a tax paid by the consumer and is a tax which is the same for everything. Someone who has a lower salary is likely to pay more or less for consumption, for food, for bills and for those most urgent things and, of course, proportional to their income, pay significantly more tax. That is why we say that it would be essential to help those who are weak. And they actually have a direct impact on that. But I'm worried about something -- I don't know what right you're taking to say that if we lower the value added tax, everyone will raise the margins and the prices will remain the same. I'm pretty sure it wouldn't have happened. I'm pretty sure. We have a huge number of traders in Slovenia, they operate on the market and they certainly wouldn't be able to afford it. If the value added tax were reduced, this would be known in the end at trade prices. Such persecution, however, to raise the margin with this merchant alone, seems extremely inappropriate to me. There's been a lot of talk, but we spend more and more in the country than we create. Due to the high debt in the past and, last but not least, during the time of this government, we pay very large amounts for interest. Next year it'll be just over 800 million. And of course, the government of Mira Cerar is acting on the principle that when we are doing well, it must be known somewhere. Unfortunately, it is best known that the public sector is filling and that the number of employees in the public sector is increasing. We've already talked about the number 8 grand today. It was also said that this is why we have a better service for citizens. I don't know, it would be best for citizens to say something for themselves – if we really have such a superior health system now that citizens have some of the things that so many more people have to do in the public sector, or if this is just known about the expenditure that goes away from the budget. And of course, in order for us to have this expenditure, there must be so much more money in the budget and the easiest thing to do is by value added tax. It runs directly into the budget, and this was also one of the easiest measures to take at that time in 2013 – to raise value added tax, it is known that some 100 million euros will be flowing, and the matter is closed. Since any other more permanent systemic measures are not so direct, they may only be known over time and may have significantly greater effects. For our proposal, I think that this is a really good proposal, however, the former Prime Minister said herself, when we had similar proposals in the National Assembly, that it was a temporary measure. The amendment was adopted in the law on the implementation of the budget for two years, not in the Value Added Tax Act, which was done during this government in 2015. That is why, of course, I think it is right and just that today, when we have economic growth, when we are in a period of conjunctura, when Europe is doing so well, when our best economic partners are doing well, this in some way will also affect all citizens and citizens. And when they go to the store they're going to have a little lower prices due to lower taxes, they're going to have a little bit more. Most of this money will not stay with them, but they will spend it, and because they will spend it, the country will get it back. Businesses will therefore be able to create more, we will have a more competitive economy, and in the end it is known again in the budget. We cannot say that this estimate is correct, but because it does not take into account the impact of what is going to happen in the middle of this, but how much consumption is going to rise as a result. Of course, it would be right for us to actually do what we did not last promised, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will do so if things change in the coming year. The position itself was exposed to VAT rates and then to some of the following, but from 28 European countries only 9 countries have a higher value added tax rate than Slovenia, I am talking about a general rate, only 9. One country has the same rate as us, 22% and 18 countries have a lower value added tax rate. But we don't just suggest that it decreases to a pre-crisis level, that is, from 22% to 20% and from 9 to 8.5, we want an even lower value added tax rate of 5% for those truly life-threatening needs, we are talking about basic foods, food, we are talking about electricity, school supplies, medicines, housing facilities, water supplies and so on. I really think – today we have a first reading of the law, which does not mean that the law must be made as a whole. If you think that part of this law is good, let us bring it together to the end, and let us do something real for all citizens and citizens, and not just for the chosen ones who actually benefit from this economic growth. Let's do something for everyone and lower the tax, everyone will have something of it. As I say, I will, of course, support this proposal and appeal to you again. You know the things that have been done in the past, why this tax has been raised, you know the effects it has, and that's why it's only right if we're really here to do something better to do something for better service to citizens and citizens – yes, we can also lower the tax maybe the service under the terms better, because eventually they'll have a little more in their wallet or they'll spend a little more. I will certainly support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u153	Mr. Janko Weber has the floor. Prepare Mrs Mariana Kotnik Poropat and Mr Jožef Horvat. Here you go, Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u154	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! When we talk about value added tax, then to a large extent or in fact, this whole debate is about exactly what is happening within Slovenia, that is, in our market. However, when we read that this change in the tax rate in VAT accounting is linked to the so-called crisis period, it is important to stress that Slovenia has largely survived this period thanks to the economy, in particular the exporters, the export-oriented economy. In fact, this is the area where we can least intervene, and that is why these companies have been so successful all the time. Otherwise, it took seriously the restrictions on lending by banks, which we recapitalised in an extremely high amount, too high. The poor conditions that these banks have, despite the fact that we have invested our money, have dictated measures in companies to organise themselves and seek credit outside or to lend money to each other. The value added tax itself has this effect on the situation within Slovenia, and it is right that we are particularly aware of this for the reason that this drop of around €550 million should, however, try to replace itself solely and only because of increased consumption and expectations that prices will be lower due to this. Personally, I believe that the only effective tax measure or one of the clearly proven tax measures that would increase consumption in Slovenia and thus economic growth is the exemption from the part of the income that relates to investments in apartments. This is a very specific account — if you have invested in the renovation of apartments, then at the end of the year your income burden will be reduced. Indeed, there is this direct effect of reducing the tax on economic growth. It is verifiable, it is measurable, and not only does it result in more work, say traders, but mainly with this tax relief on income for investments in apartments, for example, more opportunities and opportunities for entrepreneurs, craftsmen and also industries producing many of the elements that are embedded in apartments. The VAT will not achieve this, this is certainly very difficult to verify, so the reality is that this decrease of 550 million will compensate by lowering prices is very difficult to prove. Just for the reason I mentioned at the outset that in this reference the National Assembly had taken a decision to enter a fiscal rule into the constitution – by the way, I objected precisely because we have tied our hands to how we can successfully organise our work by responding successfully to the consequences of the economic and financial crisis. One of the consequences is that such laws, which we now receive in the National Assembly and which interfere with the tax area and interfere with the revenue, simply because of the entry into the Constitution of a fiscal rule, should not come to the table at all in the National Assembly. Unless there is a genuine balance between expenditure and revenue, which I said earlier, is significantly easier to measure when exempting income from investments in apartments where you have to have a specific account. Thus, all these debates we have on this issue are contrary to what the National Assembly has decided with a two-thirds majority. Now I do not have in front of me the exact number of Members who voted, but certainly more than two thirds that we could have entered into the constitution. Once again, this is an extremely harmful entry into the Constitution. Firstly, we have destroyed Article 2 of the Constitution, which speaks of us as a social state, because it is by this regulation of the fiscal rule that you restrict the possibility of quicker resolution and response to the situation of people. This is something similar to what is happening to us in Slovenia. On the one hand, let's say we promised Nate 2% of gross domestic product to follow these commitments, and on the other hand we entered the euro area, where we have clearly recorded Maastricht criteria that limit public consumption. They both don't go together. And it's the same with this marriage. They are not going together to enter the fiscal rule into the Constitution, and this law by the same motioners, who have indeed been one of the extremely loud promoters of the Constitution and have even warned the European Commission that not all these measures are being followed. This likeness, when you want to solve one thing once, and the second time you shut up what you've done before, is what's not good and what I don't think we should be doing in Parliament, and it doesn't mean that people don't trust the decisions of the National Assembly. For even when we look at the ladder of trust, in fact, the government, the National Assembly, are somewhere on the tail of trust. If decisions were to be aimed at improving the situation of people all the time, then confidence in the functioning of the National Assembly would, in my opinion, be at least at a level such as confidence in public education or other areas which the public highly trusts. These are the topics that we need to pay attention to when we talk about these tax proposals. I think that because of the clarity and behaviour of people, what is going on, it is simply right to point out for myself how I look at this and what has actually happened and what has happened, after the decision in the National Assembly has been taken. This, of course, also makes it impossible to support the text of the law, which is desirable on the one hand, and on the other hand it actually breaks one system that cannot be replaced by another concrete source, which could make it possible to say that we are going into a balanced process of public finances, which is certainly in everyone's interest. Finally, last but not least, the extremely long delay in procedures in clearing up what obligations Slovenia has up to the debt and all of these principles of credit repayment shows that we need to be very careful in reducing the funds that flow into the treasury. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u155	Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the floor to prepare Mr Jožef Horvat and Mrs Vojka Šergan. Here you go, Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u156	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Respected and respected! We are talking about the value added tax law submitted by the SDS party. The law is, if you read it, like the law, because we all want it, especially in this situation, when we still have a large number of low-income people living on the edge or even below the threshold of poverty – these are families where, even if they are employed, minimum wages and they are not enough to cover all the costs, families with children, older people and so on, so if you follow your heart, this law would support you. But we know that we have adopted the budget, that we have the Fiscal Rule Act and that, of course, we cannot spend more than we have the resources. On the other hand, it was true that, when we adopted VAT increases in times of crisis, it was said that we would settle this when the corresponding economic growth, when our economy was strengthened and so on, that we would then reduce this tax to the previous stage if I properly remembered this consideration at the meeting of the National Assembly at that time. Today we have good results, we have economic growth, we have gross social product growth, so I would say it would be good to consider that maybe the government is really trying to find a model, find the resources to somehow lower at least these basic food products in some time. If we look at this table offered in the SDS, we only have 22% of the tax in Italy and Slovenia. There are also economically well-established countries that have 23, 24%, but if you look, Austria, Germany, the United Kingdom have lower taxes. I would also like to point out that Desus has already said today – I think that this was Mrs Maria Antonija Kovacič, who presented the position – that it would be in our interest to reduce taxes even to zero for basic foods and basic household needs, but of course it is only a godly desire that would not imply a waste of time. However, as I have already said, I would suggest to the Government that the President of the Government consider at least starting to move in this area and that perhaps in due course – otherwise, we have little time left to fight for five months before the end of the term of office, but that – we should consider if at least the most urgent necessities of life can be addressed. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u157	Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor to prepare Mrs Vojka Šergan and Mr Jan Mahnic. Here you go, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u158	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! If we wait for only the Prime Minister to think, it will be bad – he is only one, we are 90. We're 90. We all have heads. Why do we have heads? To think that we are looking for solutions for people, for all 2 million and a few 10,000 citizens and citizens. Don't just wait for something to fall out of the sky or from the president's desk to pick up those crumbs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are the legislator! We, the National Choir. So such calls as we have just heard — with all due respect for everyone and everyone here in this hall, in this congregation, but we must look for solutions. And one solution proposal is on the table. The value added tax is one specific tax which does not need to be collected. The country is making virtually no effort to collect this tax, and we are just bringing it to the state treasury. It is true that the purchase is not 100 %, although Slovenia is quite successful here within the European Union as regards the collection of value added tax. I think we're in eight places with success. However, for 2015, if I am not mistaken, about EUR 280 million was added value added tax. For someone a trifle, for me personally, for New Slovenia a huge one. It's a huge, uncollected tax! Not to mention other unpaid taxes, which are constantly about billions, billions and 400 million. 280 million or this order of sizes is one village kindergarten, a kindergarten in every Slovene municipality. I know about this because it is our congregation that has recently invested in the village’s kindergarten, and I know roughly what today’s prices or investment values are. There have been discussions in this direction, if consumers do not feel a reduction in the value added tax rate, as proposed, because even if traders do, this difference in the VAT rate, in the value added tax, they will melt, if you want, into their margin. No, it's not that simple. In recent months, we have had quite a few discussions on the Finance Committee on various amendments to the Value Added Tax Act, and what two, three months ago, was also attended by the President of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Council of State, and strongly protested because some coalition Members were discussing precisely this way, since consumers will not feel reduced VAT rates because they will still remain the same retail prices. If you allow me to read the section of the debate of the President of the Chamber of Commerce, this is Mrs Marija Lah: "If the value added tax is reduced, assuming that the purchase price is unchanged, the trader is obliged to reduce the retail price," the retail price is the one that we pay consumers, so the trader is obliged to lower the retail price, "republic inspection is obliged to control in such a way or other, depending on the policy, but it is not this repressive body of the main authority that orders the trader to comply with the legislation. Traders do not act in accordance with the directives, read the policies, but the markets. The market is the main market here and traders understand what the market is. If they don't do it, then consumers will know it, and if consumers know it, they won't buy it from them, and it won't happen once, it will happen permanently. Therefore, such plans are very cautious,” that is, traders “and act in accordance with good business practices and legislation. I cannot accept the claim that traders in general will not reduce retail prices due to a reduced value added tax rate.” End of quote or discussion by the President of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, Mrs Marija Lah. I suggest that someone who does not believe this, if anyone thinks that I made this up, calls Mrs Maria Lah or the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and gets information, as they say, firsthand. My late party president, Dr. Andrej Bajuk, Finance Minister, said in such discussions very plastically that consumers are voting with their feet. What does that mean? Yes, thank God we have a wide choice, a lot of shopping houses and then we walk to another store, where the offer is better, cheaper, better and so on. It is said that all of this is actually done for the consumer. I am outraged that whenever there is any opposition proposal to reduce the tax burden, the Government or the Ministry of Finance will put itself in the role of accounting for the Republic of Slovenia and say, yes, that will not work, this is half a billion out. We can calculate this ourselves, or we can calculate ourselves better, even invite different experts who are not who they are, who teach our young people economics, finance and so on – I mean university teachers. Many of these discussions were just in 2013 when the National Assembly, of course without New Slovenia, raised the VAT rate. There have been quite professional discussions on how much this will bring. Before perhaps summarizing any of these discussions, let me remind you that Members and Members of New Slovenia are working in this direction to give citizens and citizens more freedom. We have to give people the freedom to have the freedom to have the money they deserve. It is not, however, that the state now collects it through a variety of taxes, which are high, if I add contributions to it, and then the state distributes it, as if those of our citizens who can work can earn it are completely incapable of having access to those factors that they deserve. Many financial ministers or ministers do not have as much capacity as any household member, where there may be only one minimum wage in the family. He doesn't have the ability to distribute that month's salary in 30 days. Because if we think like that and the government will always say that, but that's not possible, it's a budget cut, then that means we can't and we can't do anything. We can't do anything because there's going to be something missing from the budget everywhere. What freedom is it for you to take the money and then share it? The Ministry of Labour, the family, the social one only says, they themselves agree that social transfers should be overturned, that some are not fair. Now that I am listening here, "yes, how are we going to go to the social states", let's say, the best social policy is the social policy that creates jobs with high added value. I am not interested in jobs where only minimum wages are provided. Dr Igor Masten did his independent study on the impact of raising VAT on the state budget and on the economy and consumer at the time of raising the VAT rate for which some of you voted. Among other things, it took into account the behaviour of consumers and businesses and the important fact that money, VAT meant here, could come from only two sources, not from thin air. Those are his words, Dr. Igor Masten. In the first year following an increase in VAT, it found that an average of 0.15% of GDP would fall by one percentage point and 0.3% in 10 years. Consumption would decrease slightly slower and stronger employment, imports, exports, investments. This is spoken by the university teacher, New Slovenia's Member agrees and reads only. But he agrees. I hope someone at the MF read it, too, at the Ministry of Finance. On the other hand, budget inflows would be higher than VAT, but taking into account all the negative effects, they would not add the expected EUR 120 to 150 million per year, but only around EUR 80 million per year, according to Masten's calculations. In ten years, the cost of raising VAT would be around €800 million of lost added value in the economy. So what we've heard is that maybe half a billion or how much is going to fall out, I don't know, maybe I overheard — was it static calculation or dynamic calculation? I'm interested in dynamic calculations. It is crucial how we spend the collected money or how we spent it, now that we have it for all time, that we seem to have a legal higher VAT rate. Maybe for the start-up of the economy and new jobs? According to Masten, only to replace the lost value added at a 1 percentage point increase in ten years should create 2 000 600 jobs. Two thousand 600 jobs. Second, it's more likely that money would go to fiscal consolidation. He must have gone, too. There are also alternative solutions for it, such as increased taxation of labour, which would cause even more damage. Even in this field, the burden of work has not happened in these three years, nothing at all. And so on. Here is where he said his opinion, now I can say, the unfortunate Dr. Boštian Vasle, who has not come around about his predictions about what he will bring up VAT. Umar carried out a VAT increase simulation and found that the scenario by which the government would do nothing but leave everything to inertia, of all possible, in rounding up the bad, the worst. Vasle recommends action on the side of budgetary expenditure, such as public sector costs, but unfortunately this will not be enough, as Vasle notes. Otherwise, he agreed with Masten in this debate that the purchase price raises by 1 percentage point due to negative side effects would not exceed EUR 100 million. It's important that we also hear the expert. Regrettably, we cannot invite her to not be invited by these gentlemen here, but this is the rules of procedure. I must say that I have been at several round tables organised by Umar, including Banka Slovenije and also by the OECD, where we have listened to simulations of various reform measures, including, of course, the relief of part of the tax burden in Slovenia and the effects of these burdens. The new Slovenia insists that people must be given the freedom to decide freely and manage their money they deserve. There must be fewer countries here, ladies and gentlemen. Less countries. Why don't we trust our citizens? Why? Not that we pick it up and then we have 500 million and we share it in some form of subsidies. Hand to heart, depending on the government, but they always get government mates of that subsidy. Whatever the government is. Is that right? It's not right! It's not right. Let us give everyone one relaxed business environment with lower burdens and all of us will be better. In this country, we will be dealing with the problem of public finances for many years if we do not, if we do not allow every citizen to relax, here, at home in Slovenia, of course, not in San Francisco, all his intellectual, entrepreneurial, manual, if you want, skills and potentials. We'd have a smaller exodus of young professionals and a budget, believe me, would be more intensely charged. Less countries and more confidence in our citizens and citizens, everyone is extremely valuable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u159	Replica, Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u160	Thank you. I would like to tell Mr Horvath that, of course, we have heads in this national assembly. We have our heads with which to think, so we cannot support this law today. I have justified this by having an approved budget, we have a golden fiscal rule that limits us, and of course we cannot act so irresponsiblely. Secondly, I also said that, at this meeting today, Desus proposed that, in the opinion of the members of Desus, it would be best for them to accept a zero rate of tax for these basic food needs, but also, of course, that is unheard of. I believe that this law came a little late to the National Assembly and, of course, it is not possible to do something like this overnight, so I said that it is necessary to refer to the Government, which should think about it and, of course, take certain measures. One more comment I'd like to make. Dear Mr Horvat said that traders would blend this percentage into their margins and that consumers would not receive a reduction in prices. I think - I'll tell you on one occasion. When we introduced the euro in the country years ago, remember what happened. Prices have jumped substantially. Already those who have been monitoring this in other European Union countries that have adopted the euro before us have warned us that this will happen, and that is true. It's one fact that holds, all you have to remember is this. I don't think it's all like we used to say, but it's really important to think with your head. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u161	Procedural? That's what I'd like to hear about the form of procedure. Mr. Joseph Horvath. I'm listening very carefully.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u162	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think, Mr President, that you are familiar with the European Rule of Law so that we should warn the Member, and this is my appeal, my procedural proposal that we respect the European acquis when it comes to value added tax rates. That's all. Please warn her. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u163	Okay. Okay. It wasn't a replica of a replica, at least that. Mrs Vojka Shergan has the floor to prepare Mr Jan Mahnic and Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u164	Thank you for your word. Dear Secretary of State with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! In fact, we have a proposal to amend the VAT law for the third or fourth time on the table and given that I have heard that Members have a head for thinking, I have actually learned in this mandate that we have, I don't know, 100 times to repeat one and the same 100 times to argue one and the same, so that perhaps even the untruth becomes the truth and so on. So much for this proposal, this law and the amendment we have on the table. VAT reduction, and when we talk about how we face people – at this point we have pressures: VAT cuts, wage increases, salary increases, not enough money for investments, and not enough money for health education, and what else could they say? And then you ask yourself, "Okay, we lower taxes, but then where are we going to get the money from the budget, so that we can give more to education, more to health care, more to invest, so that we can somehow finance all of this, or that we can finance all of this from the budget?" This raises this question because, in fact, with every sort of thing like that, when we lower taxes, we actually tell people, yes, it would, but the government won't. We don't listen or we don't hear that the arguments are that it can't and can't be reduced. Why not? Because then you have to take it somewhere. And where to take it? I did not see in this bill that they would suggest where to take it. Where to take, or what to raise, which tax to raise, or where to find reserves so that we can then reduce VAT? This is one aspect I see in this. Then I heard a lot about freedom, let's leave the decision. There's something else we need to warn you about. I agree, freedom, negotiation, everything, but freedom also means responsibility. This means that when we also decide on the amount of taxes, it is very important that we be responsible. This means that we respond responsibly with arguments, but what we will do where, I don't know, we will lower what we will raise or where we will take it. It's my responsibility. That it's actually balanced. Because if we're looking at the budget, it has as much resources as it has, and then if you're lowering these assets, you're going to have to take it somewhere. Then we heard that the VAT increase was a temporary measure. Already in every such proposal we had on the table, we have heard arguments or arguments from 2013 that it was a permanent measure, but it was not written – I think it was in ZIPRS or I don't know what law. [[…]] In short, only a permanent measure has been confirmed; it has been adopted as a permanent measure. I don't know why we're still talking about a temporary measure. Then we listened to the fact that consumers were left with more in their wallets. If, on the one hand, we fight for social welfare and on the other hand, we fight for those who say they do not deserve enough to have more subsidies, to have more social transfers, to raise their wages, but on the other hand, they also have more money for VAT. That's certainly not a social correction. No, no. Because then the one who goes with the fatter wallet to the store has more. These arguments don't hold up here either. I think it is, however, necessary to point out once again that, in fact, no one here can say that, by reducing VAT, consumers will profit from having more in their wallet, because, after all, they will also have a reduction in VAT, once there is a reduction, which will somehow redistribute this reduction. Because it's also for traders when they have inventory and when they have to write it down, when somehow they try to reduce VAT through inventory, it's also a cost. I think that we are overreacting with this and that at the time of economic growth it is still necessary to look forward and try to think this way to prepare ourselves for the times when the cycle is reversed and a new crisis can arise, so we must not overly lower taxes. I agree that wages are too burdensome with contributions, but here again we can talk about the need to tax capital. Last but not least, in the coming years the real estate tax will also compensate for the capital tax in this respect, and at that time it will probably be a good time for the contributions to be reduced. But this restructuring will continue because the real estate tax is years ago — I think 2013 — fell, and this will not happen until two years later. All this tax restructuring has also begun and has made some of this effort by giving those with the lowest wages 300 euros in income savings, which they will pay less, a tax reduction in success, as even 100 % will be exempt from income payments in the coming year. In short, changes are gradually taking place in the tax area, but it is not right that these changes are introduced both quickly and overnight, as there is no argument on the other hand where to compensate for the lack of resources resulting from VAT cuts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u165	The text shall be by the representative of the Magi's proposers. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u166	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Following these two forerunners, Members of Desus and Members of the SMC, at least a short response should be made. Now whether these two Members have not read this proposal well enough or they do not understand it. You said that the VAT reduction in the wallets of citizens and citizens will not be known. Yes, it will be. In the course of the night, the price of oil derivatives will decrease, the price of electricity will decrease overnight, the price of telephone services will decrease, everywhere where net prices are set and the value added tax is only added to it, which means that it is misleading or you do not know this area. On the other hand, I am convinced that there is enough competition in the field of trade in Slovenia today, and that a lot of trade will not be able to afford that the reduction of VAT will then lead to its profits, not to the benefit of the final consumer. Don't know where to replace it. Dear colleague Shergan, you are alone or the Ministry of Finance has offered 360 million euros per night in fines to the European Commission to retain ownership in the New Ljubljana Bank. 360 million. Reducing value added tax also means lower public sector operating costs. So far, the Secretary of State has not replied to me how much this would mean to the public sector, which is, as a final consumer, not as an undertaking. Dear colleague Shergan, 1.3 billion is a tax debt. 1.3 billion is a tax debt, not changing. From 2014 to today, more than 500 million taxes, tax debt, were written off. For more than 500 million, it was written off. Slovenia in the European perspective, drawing on European funds, the second perspective, 2014-2020 available 3 billion euros, from 2014 to today your government has raised €70 million in flows to the budget under this heading. Of 3 billion. Yes, there is, but your government and your coalition are incompetent. The cycle of change will come. Or the last weekend of May or the first weekend of June when the elections are held. I have already announced – in the event of the victory of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will also enforce this VAT change.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u167	Replica, Mrs. Private Shergan.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u168	Thank you. I would like to say that the Minister of Finance explicitly stated that 350 million, when there were speeches to pay for not selling the New Ljubljana Bank, would not have gone out of budget, but would have gone out of NLB. It's on a magnetogram or it's written. As regards the recovery of the debt, the Minister also argued on the Committee that recovery has accelerated in recent years and that we are the least-debted country that is the best to recover. That's what I'm trying to say. I would also like to say this because you said that when you win, you will reduce the VAT, but we do not want to repeat the error in the Modern Centre Party from 2006-2008 when the then government, with tax policy, contributed to overheating the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u169	The text shall be by the representative of the proposer of the magi. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u170	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I propose that the Secretary of State, who is a member of the SMC, tell her colleague Shergan about the recovery of the tax debt and where Slovenia is located in the European Union. With regard to 2006-2008, surely the most successful cycle of the history of Slovenia, only when the budget was surplus. We had 60,000 unemployed, and today there's over 100,000 of them. Economic growth was, but on all the European scales, we were significantly above the European average. I am convinced that, with the victory of the Slovenian Democratic Party in the next elections, this period for Slovenia can be returned. Unfortunately, all your promises during your term of office have not been fulfilled, but in particular this coalition, and this government has continued its policy of additional debts and additional burdens both for the economy and for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. The fact is, this is the first reading of this law. This means that if there was any interest in any step of this coalition towards the opposition, as you would like to say throughout this entire mandate, how ready you are to talk about how ready you are to connect the fact is quite different. [[…]] In your entire mandate, you did not support any of the opposition's proposals. For the first time in the history of Slovenia, one government will end its mandate and four budgets will not be adopted by any amendment of the opposition. I'd say so much about connection and all that, dear colleague Shergan.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u171	Mr Tilen Bozič, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u172	Given that I have been called upon to give one particular explanation, I assume that Ambassador Shergan was referring to what we discussed earlier, it is a tax gap in the area of VAT. [[…]] Slovenia is among the first five both in relative proportion and in absolute numbers. Here I would give another response to what was said earlier when Member Horvat said that there is no need for any effort to collect VAT. Here I would point out that those who may have watched the European basketball championship know that it also looked like it was quite simple, from the first to the last basket, and that they simply reached the title. I have to admit, when you're watching from the bleachers, maybe things are a little bit different than they are on the floor. However, I would point out so much for the feeling, I said that we are among the first five relatively speaking, among the first four, when we look at the absolute figures, how much of the tax gap there is in the area of VAT. Who's behind us? Luxembourg, Finland, the Netherlands, Austria. Who's two times behind us? Germany, Ireland, Belgium, Denmark, United Kingdom, Portugal, France, Hungary. Who's three times behind us? Czech Republic, Latvia, Bulgaria, Malta. Then we go four times, five times and so on: Poland, Italy, Lithuania, Greece, Slovakia, Romania. It is said to be eight times worse, this is testimony to that last fact, so if we go to see Romania. So we're good at this, and it doesn't just come. That's one thing to point out. Then there is one additional thing in the sense that you should not do anything or suggest anything — it certainly does not. It is, however, inappropriate for certain proposals to bring the country out of balance, which was in some ways difficult to prepare and waste. Because, in terms of public finances, this country has to look not at those two, three years or maybe until the elections, but 10, 20, 30 in some cases 50 years ahead when we are talking about the pension system and so on. That's what's very important. As regards the realization of the potentials of citizens and citizens, only a few data from the labour market would be provided. In September 2014, the number of registered workers without farmers was 770 000. The latest data for 2017, which is for September, is almost 830 thousand, so the change is almost 60 thousand. The number of unemployed registered in the institution from September 2014 is around 118 000, now the data for November is about 84 000, taking into account that the number of active persons has increased significantly. If we look at youth unemployment, from 20.2% to 9.1% in September, if we look at survey unemployment, from 9.7 to 6.2. Indeed, we are not yet there as this country was in 2008, when it was in surplus, even on the basis of certain measures of additional overheating, stimulating consumption, borrowing loans and so on, which also led to the fact that once you get to the edge, you don't go over it, you step forward, but you fall over. This is what it took for the next few years to work so that now we can again, if we look at the ratings, the good news is that GDP growth is stable. The fact that consumption is also growing and so on shows that we are on the right track that the labour market is good to fill cash registers and so on. All these things that must be in order for both the state and the economy to succeed. Because the fact is that if we could afford one such moment to say okay, if this were accepted – we are a month in December, the proposal, if I understand correctly, is a change of 1. 1. 2018, is worth half a billion next year – the country must, when planning and giving signals, what it intends to do and how it intends to do, on the other hand, when it says, okay, we will take away so much money, tell also where the other money will come from, which will ensure those goals it promises, communicates, and for several years now, which has also somehow regained international recognition and international confidence that we will be able to follow this path. And this path has been clearly set, so we have told ourselves as to how much deficits, deficits, both nominal and structural, how they will move, how we will follow them, and these objectives must be pursued if we are to maintain such confidence. For this reason, too, relatively good progress could have been made in the area of sovereign debt refinancing, with expenditure on interest from billions slowly up to 900 million, up to 800 million and so on. This is money that can actually then be earmarked for investments, for education, for health care and so on. So it doesn't go with inspiration, but it goes according to some plan, and this plan needs to be kept. However, if alternative proposals are available, alternative proposals need to be provided and proposed comprehensively in order to ensure that this delicate balance is not undermined again and that, as I have already concluded, we can properly prepare ourselves for the next recession, which will also come on the occasion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u173	The text shall be by the representative of the proposer of the magi. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u174	Mr President, thank you for saying so. The Secretary of State, all that you've stated in the end is in favour of our proposal. You have talked about how the number of unemployed has decreased in economic growth, all of which means significantly higher inflows to the Slovenian budget. Dear Secretary of State, you only have 1.5 billion higher incomes tax than you had in 2014. You still haven't answered my question about what would be the effect or impact on the lower costs of reduced value added tax rates for the public sector. You are balancing only with the number of 500 million, which is personally overblown for me and does not hold because Desus is also talking about 300 million, and I am sure that on the basis of consumption they would also do something and that these inflows would then be even higher on the basis of this. Above all, we are convinced that a reduction in value added taxes would relieve those with the lowest income, and that more would remain in the wallets. Finally, in general, more money would be available for consumption and, on the other hand, it would return to the budget register.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u175	Mr Tilen Bozič, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u176	As far as the effects are concerned, most likely in this sense, as you measure, this is known in the health treasury. It estimated that the savings would be around €40 million. It is true, however, that there would be just as much impact on the integral, because this money would run out, so that it goes to a large extent for a zero-sum game. However, I would like to say one thing about those steps that you have also taken with certain changes in the period just before the country went into crisis. The calculations have been made to the extent that this has had an impact, and they show that approximately 20 percentage points in this debt we currently have fall back on the imbalance caused by certain tax changes. So, if we say so, we'd be in debt over 50 percent of GDP today instead of over 70.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u177	Mr Jan Mahnic has the floor to prepare Mr Jože Tanko and Dr Mitja Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u178	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Yesterday, especially on social networks, we heard a lot of readings from the Levica Group, who painted the branches of the Slovenian Democratic Party and said that there was no one in the National Assembly when dealing with the issue of minimum wage. Perhaps Slovenia 3 will direct the camera over there so that citizens and citizens can see how at a time when the Slovenian Democratic Party's proposal to reduce VAT, felt by all citizens, not only with minimum wages – which we also agree in the SDS should be raised to a decent level, that is why we did not vote against the proposal of the Left yesterday – when it comes to their proposal, their chairs are empty as they go home earlier. Of course, when it comes to their proposal when it comes to the SDS proposal, which would have a positive effect on the wallets of all citizens and citizens, they do not participate in the debate. If I go specifically to the proposal. Last month we discussed the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the next two years, the changes for 2018 and the proposal for 2019. The main observation of the Slovenian Democratic Party of both draft budgets for both years was that the positive effects of economic growth and consequently more money in the state budget at the income level, little less than €10 billion, our citizens and citizens feel little in their wallets. Because in the Slovenian Democratic Party we are not the ones who would just talk because, unlike the other parties, we are somehow following the motto of the President of the Government that we are not complaining, but we are looking for solutions, we are going a step further, not only looking for them, we are also finding them, and we are proposing them in Parliament, we have proposed a law on amendments and additions to the Value Added Tax Act. The VAT increase in the government of Alenka Bratušek has already been mentioned many times. Here I agree with Mr Möderndorfer that it would also be interesting to hear the position of today's Member, then Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek, who claimed that the measure was temporary, that this measure should be implemented due to the financial economic crisis. In fact, we are witnessing today that those measures, which are temporary, will then become permanent and will last as long as possible. It is precisely because we have seen what the budget is like because, in our view, there is enough finance on the revenue side that we are proposing this law, which would lead to VAT being charged and paid at a general rate of 20%. This is said, from today's 22 we propose that it go back to the pre-crisis level, that is 20%, and that it is the same for the supply of goods and services. We also propose that we give a tax, which was also taxed during the Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek with an excuse or explanation that it is temporary, increased from 8.5% to 9.5, back to 8 1/2. In addition, we are proposing an additional rate of 5% for some of the most urgent needs. As the table shows, they would not be the only ones, even some other countries know this thing. The lower VAT rate is for children's clothing and footwear, for school supplies or firefighting equipment and shall apply on the first day of the month following the month in which they are included in the Annex to this Act. Even earlier, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia must propose this to the Council of the European Union. In short, we propose an additional level on one side of the family – we know that children’s clothes and footwear and school supplies are particularly affected by those, we can say, with small school-bound children – and on one side by firefighters. If we look at young families first. We have already talked a lot about demographic issues in this House with positive family policies. There have been many proposals in this National Assembly, unfortunately only by the SDS and New Slovenia, which are similar, which somehow bring this demographic image closer to that positive direction than to that negative. Of course, demography can be solved in many ways, but it is essential that we allow young people to decide for their families to know it in their wallets, for each thing costs. This is why we have already proposed a solution to the housing problem in the Slovenian Democratic Party two years ago. Since then nothing has changed, we still have about 400 apartments owned by the state, empty. At that time, we proposed that these apartments be transferred to the Housing Fund, which would give young people and young families under 35 years of age for rent for a period of 5 years after non-profit rents, and after these 5 years they would also have the option of buying this apartment at a non-profit price, all of which would be counted at the purchase price in those 5 years until then. Then we also had different proposals on the right side of the opposition, as some people like to say, I have no problem with this myself, including for additional benefits as regards kindergartens. In doing so, let me remind you that it was between 2004 and 2008, when you said how we overheated the economy, when the government, we would not say, created new jobs and overheated the economy, but created such conditions that the economy could function normally positively. From this address, we received more money on the revenue side of the budget and it was therefore possible to introduce a measure to enable any other and further children to have free kindergarten. In short, the measures that have a positive impact on the demographic picture here are always two possibilities, probably more, but we do not advocate the resolution of demographics by importing migrants from the Middle East and North Africa, but by measures such as the one that, at an additionally reduced rate, this is 5% for VAT, taxes on children's clothing, footwear, school supplies and so on. If we come across young people with such suggestions, they will certainly decide for their children. This will give us citizens who will contribute to the budget, which, of course, when they are employed, will also pay in pensions, health care, all other cash registers. With this, I can say, we kill more flies at the same time, with positive demographics, which is, of course, Europe's problem. Europe, which is old, although we are still under the average of the European Union in Slovenia, as far as the average age is concerned, but if we look only at North Africa, from where people flee with a belly for bread with such and different reasons in Europe, far behind. The average age, 40 years from now, certainly cannot be proud of us. Surely, such measures can also help to improve the demographic picture, for everyone today, on the one hand, is responsible and unfortunately is looking at everything through finance. If his finances do not allow him to create his own family, which we know is a prerequisite, for the first time, that you have a job, for the second time, that you have such a job that allows you to have your own home, if not another, if you have a large enough house – in the former country a house that will be designed for two, perhaps even three generations, that you can somehow arrange at least one floor of your parents' house – if there is no economic account here, then unfortunately we will not contribute to a positive demographic picture. This is precisely why children's shoes, clothing and school equipment are added to this additional reduced rate, which is 5%. On the other hand, in the National Assembly, especially in these days, this is also very relevant when we watch the President of the Government go to the field — I have no objection to it, it is right that he has gone — and he has become aware of the situation on the ground as a result of the flood. Not only floods, but also other natural disasters, we have had enough, I can say too much in this mandate. Remember the year 2014, although it still falls under the previous mandate, because it was February 2014, soon after the government vow we met catastrophic floods and so on. What does all floods have in common? Floods on one side, those that save the situation, on the other hand, are firefighters and firefighters. Voluntary firefighters who, just at the time we're talking here, when we were talking yesterday, before yesterday, are sacrificing their free time, their knowledge, their skills, their power to help citizens and citizens. And if I don't mind, and I also support the fact that the President of the Government is going to look at the situation on the ground, I would strongly support the President of the Government even when we discussed the amendments to the 2018 and 2019 budget, when we proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party that the Government, under the Ministry of Defence, would devote an additional 2 million euros each year to firefighters, equipment and voluntary firefighting. Last week, in Gorenja village, we built a foundation stone to build a new firehouse. I invited Mr. Dark Booth, President of the Department of Protection and Rescue, to take a look at this. At that time, he said that he would do well to accept that amendment from the Slovenian Democratic Party – 39 votes against, 36 for, 4 for, – which would bring an additional EUR 2 million on the firepower item. Unfortunately, the URSZR cannot finance the walls, the construction of new firehouses, but the equipment is the personal protection of the firefighter, who today costs between €700 and €2,000. Calculate, for 2 million euros more each year, how much more of this equipment could be bought, which would help in this direction to make firefighters and firefighters better equipped, and especially better protected themselves when they rush for such and other interventions to help citizens and citizens. Since neither the 2 amendments were adopted, we know that firefighting in Slovenia is at a high level, as far as organisation, professionalism, knowledge, and, above all, equipment are concerned, all the fire extinguishers buying would still be buying at an additional reduced tax rate, which is 5% on our proposal. This would not only be a way of walking in the field, thanking firefighters, civil protection, who today are sacrificingly addressing the consequences of the last natural capture, but also political ones, as a result of which they would be shown to support them in some fiscal economic way. Next time they go shopping for helmets, they go shopping for boots, clothes, or a fire truck to pay lower VAT. At least here I would have liked or expected your support in some way. I am interested, however, in the fact that the activity of firefighting falls more under the Ministry of Defence, in some way it would be good to hear the opinion of the Minister of Defence. It has often been heard that these are some populism, popular measures that are convenient before the elections. That is not the case, we have submitted this, after seeing what the budget proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is. If we knew that the budget was such that, according to the financial picture of the budget, the state could not afford these additional millions, then we would certainly not have proposed this. I think that in the Slovenian Democratic Party, several times with our proposals, especially in 2012 and 2013, we have proved that we are responsible for public finances – when we were, even though people knew how to take measures, not for the good of the party, but for the good of the country, we are forced to take Zujf. The ones you have criticised the most at the time, here I can except for SMC, I speak mainly to SD and Desus, also to Mrs Bratusek, who is unfortunately not here today, who, after the government of Alenka Bratusek arrived, took additional tightening measures in the fiscal field, that is to say raised the general VAT rate from 20 to 22 and reduced from 8.5 to 9.5, criticised the second government of Janez Janša as to how to tighten up and, of course, the expenditure side of the budget, you extended these measures just a few times later. If Zuif were really so bad, we would certainly have put him out right away, but of course you didn't want him to practically collapse the entire budget. However, in the last year, two years – we, I think, in 2016, the end of 2015 proposed to abolish one of the measures taken by the Public Finance Balance Act, that is when the supplementary health insurance for veterans and veteran wars for Slovenia was removed, then you said we will not support this, because, as our data is, soon there will be 2.5% economic growth and some measures will cease to apply, in short, the matter will then return to the previous situation. And it is precisely because economic growth was 2.5% and because, according to Death's forecasts - given that you got rid of Vaslet, I believe that you will put some more socialist director in this direction – that economic growth will show even higher, then it would be only prudent and logical to release some other measures that were also under the pretext that these are temporary measures and that you will release them when 2.5% or more of the economic growth is achieved, not to mention that for the first time since 2007, the Surplus is also announced in the state budget for 2018. Of course, there were no suggestions on your part, there was no action, if I say so domestically, as at point 2 which we have discussed today about Uber. When you said last year that the proposal would be ready in the autumn, and after a year and two months there is nothing, we have prepared a proposal and, of course, the proposal is not complete enough, it is not appropriate, there is no control. Here I think it has happened for the first time that the Government a priori does not even oppose this proposal, because it would oppose it, but because of the financial framework. But I think you could still find this funding if you wanted to. When EUR 120 million is earmarked in the state budget without a problem for illegal migrants, when you are willing to spend €360 million without difficulty in keeping the New Ljubljana Bank in state ownership – even if earlier Mrs Shergan said that this €360 million will be paid by the New Ljubljana Bank, it is still a state bank, then it would probably be necessary to recapitalise, but probably someone is counting on the possibility of re-businessing through this bank with some kind of Iran, given the situation between the West and the Islamic Republic of Iran – if you have no problem spending 300 million euros for 8 000 additional employees in the public sector, ladies and gentlemen, that is 800 million euros. This is, roughly speaking, one of the values of Telekom Slovenije, which you are prepared to keep because of such and different interests of yours or not yours, especially those who have put the government out of your pockets, so that the matter is not sold. And if you throw €800 million out of the window without a problem, then no one will convince me that you can't find the money that is as a financial consequence of being misled in this law and that would have a particularly positive impact on the wallets of our citizens and citizens. A colleague of Marjana Kotnik Popotat earlier said that for some proposals here we could give 0% so that no tax would be paid at all. Of course it doesn't work that way, but 0 is close to two pieces of ice cream that Desus has been conditioning for pensioners and pensioners during this term. With this measure, ladies and gentlemen of Desus, in particular Mrs Maria, who sits here and listens, would give more than two cupcakes of ice cream to pensioners and pensioners. You talked about how you coordinated pensions, how you raised pensions, now you even proposed a law that would have, I think, the weight of what you wrote, an additional billion euros over the next 3, 4 years. Let's support our law. This law will have a positive financial impact on all citizens and citizens, those with a minimum wage, those in the public sector for which trade unions now negotiate and want to raise one or two wage classes and eliminate the other anomalies, and will also have a positive impact on pensioners. If we adopt this law to reduce VAT to a further reduced rate of 5%, believe me, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues from Desus, I am sure that on daily purchases, even when you say Spar and Mercator have additional discounts for pensioners, probably not two cupcakes of ice cream, but at least two cupcakes each day would save our pensioners and pensioners. It's not all about the pension raise. This law is a law that would reduce the cost of living that would reduce the benefits that pensioners and pensioners need for their daily lives and for which they pay more than they would pay today if this law were adopted. I think by tomorrow's vote, there's plenty of time to think about it, talk about it, and at least I expect your support. On the other hand, this could also be used as an argument when negotiating with trade unions. If we reduce the cost of living by lowering the daily costs of citizens and citizens regardless of who they are - of course, I agree with what Mrs Shergan said - if we generally lower some level, those who have more will have more, that is of course logical. But we have such a tax, we agreed on it, and I think such taxation is fair. I really don't see the reason. More than once, it's been proven that if it's willful, there's a way, if you want, that money can be found. Tilna is also known from the parliamentary benches, we know that he is capable, and I am sure that he is also able to find these millions in the budget, even though he said, if I understood him correctly, if I paraphrased that the Members are like a tribune and the Government is like a parquet on the basketball field. In short, I will support this marriage. I believe that you will be supported by all those who are well-intentioned, who want this economic growth that we have now to be felt by our citizens and citizens, and that we will finally do something not only for two lumps of ice cream for pensioners, pensioners, but to give them some ice cream baths, to lower the tax rate at which they pay for the ice cream bath, not just for them, to someone else, and, of course, to start with positive measures to solve some of the key challenges, some of the key problems of this society. As I said before, the demographic picture, in these days above all security, protection and rescue, is called firefighters, and all the other things we propose in this law. I think it's a good time. Parliament's coming in the last six months when the deadr run. I am the first Member of Parliament, but when I somehow went back to looking at it, it was in these last six months that Members and Members sometimes brought some kind of law through, regardless of whether the Government a priori did not support it or that somehow it wrote in the opinion that it did not support it. However, even though we are the proponent, it may be a joint project of Members and Members that our citizens and citizens will have some of this economic growth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u179	Before I give the floor to Mr Tank, the Minister of State at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Tilen Bozič, asked for the floor. [[…]] Here you go. You have the floor. Maybe next term. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u180	Let me tell you that the Minister will join us at the next item on your agenda. So much for that. Just for a short two-response. Earlier, it was said that the “relationship of parquets – Tribune”, this was not meant for the ratio of the National Assembly – Government, but related to a specific statement that went in this direction, that no effort was needed to collect VAT, because it was supposed to fly itself into the cash register. I wouldn't have been able to afford such an observation for this respectable house, if not for another, I'm a guest in this house today. The second thing I would point out was also mentioned, somehow I was flattered to have certain abilities, but I still have to point out that with 550 million less in the state treasury search and allocation, it would be even more difficult. These funds should be put somewhere, say on the expenditure side, reduced, by the way, that would happen, I don't know, maybe even in the field of firefighters and so on. So these funds should be found somewhere, and probably more means they get the money than they might lose the funds and then save that little thing on VAT. Nevertheless, I would say that EUR 450 million, as far as the estimated impact is concerned, is a huge impact on public finances, and without consequences, it is said without cutting on the spending side even in very painful areas or where we would like to see even more resources, but it would not be possible. I'm going to repeat this again, because this is happening all the time, about these 360 million euros and NLB. At the time, what was also going on in the media was that, because of the state aid at the time, NLB would charge EUR 360 million to the State budget of the Republic of Slovenia, not Slovenia to the European Commission, not to the NLB to the European Commission and so on. I repeat, even after media reporting, it went this way to direct NLB 360 million into the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. This will probably have to be repeated several times, given that this information is repeatedly distorted and misused. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u181	Mr. Jože Tanko has the word to prepare Dr. Mitja Horvat. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u182	Thank you very much. I am one of the Members of that golden generation 2004-2008, which we are also in this mandate, and I have experienced that bloom, is the economic growth that was then, and also today, both. I was thrilled then. I'm thrilled now. But what's the difference? At the time, the government, Prime Minister Janša, Finance Minister Dr. Bajuk, had set itself the goal of deploring both the population and the economy by means of the financial inflow that had taken place at that time due to additional resources. At that time, it was a tax reform that brought some 600 million marks to the benefit of the people through the tax income system and some 600 million to the economy through various other measures, including a reduction in the tax on profits and also by introducing, I don't know, additional tax incentives for investments and so on. In short, there were many made with a billion 200 thousand marks. At the time, we were a country that had one of the highest economic growth in Europe, with other countries with high economic growth such as Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, the Baltic States. But after that, there was a change of government, Eastern European countries maintained high economic growth, and Slovenia experienced the highest economic depression in Europe. The change in the political tide, the adoption of the wrong measures, has caused a diametric opposite situation between the countries of former Eastern Europe and Slovenia. Therefore, the Poles who took the right measures are the Czechs who took the right measures, the Slovaks who took the right measures, the Czechs before us, and the others who were very close to us, were at the time a third or maybe half of the standard that Slovenia had. Now the Czechs are better than us by standard. In the meantime, there was a structural change, we no longer had a so-called right-wing government or a right-centre government, we got a left-wing government, but given what I am now speaking comparatively, it was actually a left-wing government because it wasted huge potentials that Slovenia had, and we lost all comparative advantages with other countries. At that time, we heard constant talks about how the economy overheated in the Czech Republic, Poland, Slovakia, and the Baltic countries continued to overheat, so they are where they are, so they caught us. We've degraded and lost all these good things and so on. We are in a similar situation now, again among the countries with the highest economic growth, again we have luck because we have a government that is exactly the same as Borut Pahor's government. Instead of taking measures to relax the matter, we are again faced with measures or omissions that mean nothing that means pure stagnation. They don't bring anything to people, they don't bring anything to the economy. Nothing. On the contrary, the measures that are being taken are actually blocking economic activity, meaning, I will say, preserving the problems of the population. The difference between us and this government or the former leftist governments is that we have been betting on people and you are betting on the country. So, we let people get money through lower taxes, that they themselves had it and invested where it was right and what it seemed meaningful to them, and bought what they thought they needed. But in this part, we are in this time, again in this government, in a situation where the almighty state would like to redistribute everything on its own and the low wages of high social support. This is said, instead of people living and working themselves, we send them in front of different offices and windows and strengthen bureaucracy. There's another fundamental difference. It's no secret. At that time, unemployment was low because the economy was doing well. Now brag about the decline in unemployment, because the board is getting stronger. There are not so many new jobs in the economy. There aren't so many. But there's a lot of them in the administration, 8 grand. 8,000 new jobs, if the average gross salary, the gross cost of a job in the administration of 30 000 euros, is 240 million per year of fixed cost, at least. But because you employ a highly educated, socio-educated faculty, the job is probably slightly more expensive than 30,000 euros. Almost definitely. When you adopted the budget, we did not support it, did you also get the opinion of the Fiscal Council – correct? There these experts were written down, which we have appointed to the Fiscal Council, so that the state does not follow the structural deficit commitments. What did you do? Nothing. You went over the fiscal world like he wasn't there. It's like he's gone. Now some Members are here wondering if we could be the ones who can propose anything, any such law that has tax effects. You are the one who is violating the fiscal pact because you are employed in the public sector and do not reduce public costs and maintain or maintain this non-conformity there, and you tell us if we can even propose any tax law. We'll get him. We also have moral rights because we did so when we had such an economic situation. Even then, we did it, and we did it successfully, and the country didn't go bankrupt for it. No such fears as the Secretary of State spoke of were in sight. I mean, it's kind of working out. But if you hire a lot of people in the public sector, and that's why you need a lot of taxes to service it, and every time you hire a thousand, you need a thousand more, then that fear is even justified in some way. However, if the system were to function differently, if the concept of work and the burden of the Office of Labour had been carried out differently, by means of economic aid measures with such measures that the economy could only function, then this would have gone differently. Mr. Secretary of State is talking about some 500 million with 1. 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the Don't hold it. In fact, we have proposed the 3rd degree, so that the lowest, lowest tax rate applies only after your government has negotiated with the European Commission on a second lower tax rate. This is the task for the government, the mandate of the government to go to the European Commission and negotiate a second reduced tax rate. If anything, I'd expect the rational government to pull this off and do it. This is something that would be most common for the government to try, to go into action, and to fight, so that what might have been negotiated in some situation would improve. Other countries have already negotiated in pre-accession negotiations for concessions, for the arrangements in force and also have a second lower tax rate. Your colleagues have also explained to you that personal consumption is also starting to turn faster by reducing VAT. Thus, people would buy a variety of products, and there would be an increase in the supply of goods in the economy, both in the agricultural field and in other consumer goods. For 300 million, if you calculated it like that, it would turn somewhere else. Something might go into saving, but most of it would go into spending. And in a number of parts, these VAT reduction measures would relieve Karitas and also relieve the Red Cross and reduce the pressure on those packages and probably also allow those living below the poverty threshold to get through more easily from month to month. That's the point of lower tax rates. In a way, I also understand all the insights that some of you have made about the ideological question. It's going. It's probably an ideological issue in the tax system. We are customers who want people to live well, and you are customers who want the country to live well. It's mostly a deep country. All that is collected largely through income taxes, VAT and other taxes is the problem of being distributed very irrationally to other areas beyond control. You could easily provide, I don't know, 130 million, 124 million to cover health losses. Easy. No problem. No vows. The ones who made the losses will be the state-funded paramedics. They will be rewarded for correctly distributing state money through these funds. Even rewarded for having these things prepared. It is difficult to understand that in this way you are trying to discredit the proposal before us. The proposal is good, the proposal is effective, the proposal hits every family, it makes life easier for every family, but of course the most difficult one to go through during the month. But most of all, the one who lives the hardest. To those in the highest income class, this VAT reduction is probably not much. Those who fall into the lower income classes, especially those who are employed in companies, self-employed and a large proportion of pensioners, this means a lot. Significantly more than any measure, let's say in the area of pension adjustment that you have carried out so far. Significantly more. Because the fixed part that a four-member family needs to eat is about €400 a month. Reduced taxes mean a monthly increase of 0.1 or 1.2% of the pension. A lot more for these people. I do not understand why such an action and such an approach would not be possible. I think there's also one fundamental discrepancy between what you're saying and what you're doing. High taxes can't talk about a successful state. A successful country is the one that can effectively survive with small taxes. This is an effective country. It's a good country. There it is known that things work as they must, that what is collected through these mandatory duties achieves its purpose for the economic segment, the family segment, the planning of other policies and so on. However, because we have large taxes because we pay a lot to the country, although there are significantly higher revenues to the state budget through economic growth, something is wrong here. Then it is not a rational state; it is simply that there are groups of people working on how to redistribute these surpluses that come into the budget to flow in different ways and in different ways. This is probably the fundamental point of nothing being done in this area. In view of the fact that economic growth is expected to be quite high or the highest in Europe, it is also unusual that only 3 measures have been taken, as far as the tax area is concerned. First the bound ledger of accounts, then the introduction of tax registers and finally the cementing of higher VAT rates. Have you taken any other measures in the field of taxes, I mean in terms of simplifying people's lives, appreciating the functioning of companies, value of life and so on? None of that. There is nothing from tax reform, just what he forced the Jews to do, it is called a bound book of accounts and the introduction of tax registers, for petty things. You don't really need a tax box where there's big stuff. The tax box office is for what's going on with some little farmer, some little shopkeeper, I don't know where. That was what happened. As regards the impact of this law and what you have predicted through economic growth, you have covered all these measures through economic growth for 2018. You have covered the impact of this law directly by assessing higher economic growth. In any event, this does not fall within the framework of an assessment of higher economic growth for 2018. All these fears spoken by the Secretary of State here have nothing to do with the reality. Measures where you can save significantly higher amounts, you have more than enough. For migrants, you have booked 30 million money, you cover long-term and long-term losses, you employ excessively in various public systems regardless of needs, you cover losses elsewhere, and so on. In short, what is supposed to cause problems with the adoption of this law is not actually there. However, the problem is also that you rejected our proposals when we adopted the budget, including in relation to VAT. Although we did not then propose the third tax rates, the lowest tax rates as now, but you refused. And if your government acted normally and rationally, as the government did in the 2004-2008 mandate, we would already have a surplus in the budget. If we hadn't hired 8,000 people in this period, we would probably already have more or less surpluses in the budget if we hadn't spent money on irrational matters, we would have already had money in the budget. If the personnel don't work in certain areas, just replace them, but you replace good people. As regards the additive in particular, this is called an additional reduced tax rate, mainly for goods and services which are inevitable. Under this additional reduced tax rate is written something that no one can really escape. You can't get past basic food products, you can't get past water, you can't get past medicine and all the other medical stuff that's impossible. You can't pass the apartment. It's impossible. And you can't get past things that have to do with housing, which is electricity, natural gas, remote heating, or some other kind of heating. You can't. It's inevitable. These costs, as regards district heating for the average apartment, range from 80 to 100, 120 euros per month. A month. Is that right? So I said a little bit about the city of Ljubljana, that's probably a little bit. So it's about things that are inevitable for anyone's life. You can't get past these costs at any stage of your life. It's the key to life's necessities. If the cost of this package, which I have just said, is about EUR 500 or EUR 500 or EUR 400 per person, then this means significant savings in people. VAT can also be compensated by stimulating other things in another way, but a large part of itself would be through rotation, perhaps by delaying from one to two months, coming back into the budget. The problem might be one month or two after this measure has been implemented and then it begins to spin. That's what's happened in the past, that's what economists who can explain these things to you, we all know that. As far as our proposal on these three tax rates is concerned, for the first time on the two mandatory, which have already been reduced and then further reduced, I think it is extremely meaningful, rational, necessary and in no way deviates from European practice. It does not deviate in any way from European practice. All such things have long since been legalized by other countries, not to say that many also have a substantially better income scale. Much better, as regards class delimitation as well as tax rates. As well as tax rates. This will be a proposal that will be discussed in January, but it will also have to be said in that case. We cannot, for example, have the third highest tax rate in the area of income by rank, but Austria has only the first tax rate there. This means that a lot of things are done by simply collecting from people, taking from people and then getting fat on top and dividing through long offices, intermediate advisory offices, new ad hoc agencies and so on and so on. What we now watch as offices grow like mushrooms in the rain and cause even worse additional costs. The proposal is to support, we will, and we hope that some other people in this national assembly will have the sense that there will be no routine in front of them or that you will not keep your eyes blindfolded. It is also necessary to listen to things when it is possible to act. And now is the time to act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u183	Dr. Mitja Horvat, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u184	Thank you very much, chairman, for your word. Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, the Secretary of State and the other Members of Parliament! I'll start in the same optimistic spirit as my forerunner. I have experienced these times on the other hand, partly because of what happened at the time, partly because of what happened in the years after that, I have decided to enter politics because, in particular, I have found the right challenge – that we have to do things differently, that we have to take the matter socially responsible. We certainly didn't come to bed, as you know, sometimes I don't like to say the words, but today I'm going to do it for principle reasons, so that I can describe certain things here. At a time when it was still being said that we were in a crisis, as had already been said in the debate before, when some called the troika, and by the way after times, I have a small feeling that this psychological approach, that we judge others by ourselves, in fact in this case also expressed quite a bit. For we know what period and what period the agencies have grown like mushrooms in the rain, and we are also dealing with this issue today whether to do anything in this area or not. So we are talking about the time when we had to roll up our sleeves and do something we committed ourselves to, and that is, of course, to consolidate public finances. If the crisis is over, as you have also warned yourself several times today, but it does not mean that the consequences of what you call a crisis no longer exist, that there is no need to exert effort to achieve that final goal, which, lastly, in accordance with the Constitution, has led us to adopt the Fiscal Rule Act, the Fiscal Council, which operates with full steam and also warns us – I have just received a letter from the Fiscal Council today that wants cooperation and action in this area. This means that the situation is not nearly as rosy as you want to describe it, and if I use the words of my esteemed colleague Joseph Horvat, who said today that we give money to people, I believe that in any case, where he was alone among the proponents and the great supporters of the law, he said that we no longer need this law, let us give people the opportunity to shape their own destiny. As a liberal today, I am pleased to hear many liberal content that I can only support, of course. We are also working at the Modern Centre Party to give people a decent life, to take socially responsible solutions within the framework we have set up, and to do so in a healthy economy. I speak several times, and today I will use the same words about the mother country, and you wanted to include us in this part so that we could swear to the country and that the state should solve all the problems that people have. Not even close. If anyone does, then, of course, the liberals do not believe that a warm embrace of the state is needed, because for us liberals this hug becomes very fast tightening. We also do not consider it a tool or the only tool that can solve the challenges ahead. Of course, we are in a period of opportunity, and at the moment I must admit that I am personally pleased that you have tabled this proposal in the debate of the National Assembly. It comes at a time when everyone is talking about that we have more than 4% economic growth and that we must all have some of it – yes, if there are no consequences that we have as a result of decisions from the past. Also from the grand mandate you are talking about when it was all in bloom, there have been quite a few consequences that we are still experiencing today. Of course, we are not talking about the euro or two, as was illustrated today, but we are talking about billions. About the billions each year that we have to provide, about the billions that we have given in the past for certain purposes. I will not criticize and not say that they were all lost, and of course I will not use the big words that have been used to throw them or to throw them out the window, to throw them into large and so on and so forth. But the situation is more important to me if, on the one hand, I see such a proposal for a reduction in VAT, which is included in our efforts, which we have both in terms of the Stability Pact and the stability of public finances in the Republic of Slovenia, then I must say that on the other hand, all the pressures and forecasts of strikes remind me of the moment of the person who hits the main win on Lot. [[…]] Show me how many of those people who got millions of dollars are still millionaires today. Why? For a simple reason, because each matter they have before them is compared to each other’s main profits, and of course, the money is quickly taken away. It is still necessary to manage wisely, still in all decisions, in the reallocations that we have made, as originally pointed out by my colleague Mrs Ban, in all these efforts, and of course in all the commitments we have been committed to since before. Some of them are also covered by VAT today. This has also been defined as one of the measures by which we will try to achieve the final objective of a balanced state sector by 2020. Until then, we need to gradually reduce the deficit. All these amounts that you are talking about today, the amounts that have been calculated — I understand that certain parliamentary groups that are already drawing up the text carefully at the meeting of the parliamentary group have not been familiar with the text that I received today at the bench by the Government — are things that we must also consider from the front, we get them in our hands and we must turn quickly so that we can answer any questions. One of the questions that no one has pointed to today is, however, something that I think we must urgently note. We also discussed the VAT system last week on the EU Affairs Committee, and we know that we have received information, and we have also given a position on how to unify this system at the level of the entire European Union. And accordingly, as far as VAT is concerned, we can then adapt the law itself, or within the scope of the possible, if we are already achieving the goals that are partly linked, not entirely, of course, I will not exaggerate today, even on the issue of VAT or VAT levels, which we are dealing with today. Certainly, it must be said that it would most likely help people to have a lower VAT rate. I will, of course, be very happy when the time comes that I may be able to do so myself, even among the signatories or proponents of reducing the VAT to the level that seems appropriate to the liberal, after all the systems work and when there is not so much pressure on the state budget and on all the cash that we must also manage wisely and responsibly. As regards the permanent increase in VAT. Today, I am a little intrigued by this, and from your debate by the proponents I somehow feel in this work that there is now a slightly higher rate, now called an increased VAT rate, something which should be exceptional and not set. But I don't understand or understand the logic clearly, or that means that 20 and 8.5 is something that is permanent and could be the right rate of VAT and we must, of course, keep it to infinity. I hope not. I hope that we will come in time and that we will get closer to what they have in Luxembourg, which you have beautifully shown us and also present to us in numbers. But I will not do this because this has been done before, comparisons with neighbouring countries. I certainly do not want to be followed by any countries that are neighbouring countries that you have left behind on purpose. We have more than enough samples and cases on all sides. Time is not ripe, but, of course, there is something we need to appreciate, a legitimate attempt to present in this way, too, that VAT is something we need to think about at this time. However, we must disappoint you at this point, and we must say that this half billion in the 9 billion-dollar budget of the sector is not a joke, as the Secretary of State has said, and in this regard, unfortunately, we still have to act responsibly. That is why we will not be able to support and thereby threaten all the other efforts that we have by consolidation and by acting in accordance with the Stability Pact and in accordance with our fiscal rule. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u185	Replica, Mr. Tanko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u186	Thank you very much. First, about the liberals. Liberals are nowhere as squeamish as you are, because you are always but a priori against everything we suggest, nor do we make communication about anything to talk about. You don't respect or cooperate. That's typical. Liberals are open, not orthos, just like you are when only a priori against you always vote. If you look at the votes of your parliamentary group and coalitions, you will probably find that out. There's nothing liberal there. And second, about the threesome. We had a threesome. This week, the Prime Minister commended herself for the fact that this troika consists of her as the Prime Minister of the Government, Minister of Finance Uroš Chufer and Boštjan Jazbec, Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. Now, just the question of whether then it would be better to get a threesome from the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund, would be cheaper for the country or cheaper, which is what we now have under the next item when we talk about the return of nationalised money. This is a typical example, we have had a threesome that has very much seized citizens' assets in the form of subordinate documents and shares. Two billion euros, it says in one document that there was this money. This has happened, this European troika would have cost us significantly less and the money for recovery would have been received under significantly more favourable conditions than what was done. The Secretary of State may, if he has a mandate, have something to say on this subject, but that is true. That's right. Now we're going to return the money to the people that the Slovenian Three has seized. Probably another part will come when we deal with the recovery of illegally confiscated shares in the banking system, not just subordinates. That'll be the result, I'd say, of our successful bank recovery. We've got these stories going on, we've got Croatian savers, we've got damages once, we don't know who they've erased, we're going to have damages now to our deleted, next time to the other part of our financially erased, and so on. That's the result of this three of us and the liberals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u187	We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer will be given the floor. First of all, the representative of the Government, Mr Tilen Bozič, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u188	Thank you for your word. I think that the debate was interesting, there was much to be said, I do not want to repeat myself, but I will do just what Mr Tanko said in the end. I think it is worth stressing here that public finances are not perpetuum mobiles and that one of the fundamental principles in the planning of public finances is correct. I'm sorry that, in addition to correctness, caution is what I wanted to point out. So I would say that when things go up, we should also consider what you will do when they go down and prepare for it. In short, getting out of the plane and counting on you to find a parachute somewhere along the way may not be the best idea. Another thing I'd only go through for a little while. What did I want to point out today in particular? For the reasons why the Government does not support this law, it is certain that the fiscal consolidation that we have set ourselves is to say that the balance of the budgets of the state sector will be achieved by 2020 and by 2020 that we have set ourselves certain other limits. As far as this is concerned, you know for yourself that in the coming year we are planning a nominal surplus of 0.4% of GDP, which means that we will have to keep working in line with what we have set ourselves and achieve those goals that we have somehow communicated. So this clear path is set and the government intends to follow. As far as the appropriateness of tax policy is concerned, I also said that we are somehow focusing on what those main orientations are. So, the umbrella objective – consolidation of public finances, is subordinated to three objectives here. It is called restructuring, then improving collection in the area of levy collection and reduction of administrative burdens. We follow that, and I think we've brought a lot of this to the National Assembly. Before, Mr Tanko asked what we did and counted a few things, but, okay, he counted them, I will not repeat myself on this, because I will run out of time and we have already mentioned this at the meeting today. [[…]] As far as financial impacts are concerned, I said around €300 million for the reduction from grade 22 to 20 and 9.5 to 8.5 in the first year to 270 and 280 million, due to a certain delay in the introduction and then an additional reduction rate of 5%. According to 22 some, some goods to 5 or a reduction from 9.5 to 5 would bring or take about 250 million euros, I also said numbers by category, how much is there. Trends also suggest that if we look at other countries, this is not going in this direction. Thus, our priority remains to relieve the burden of work, as does the first one we devote ourselves to. On this, in the area of restructuring, we have done many things in the last two years. If we add together how many measures have been taken, of which around € 130 million has been decommissioned from year to year, all of which, in the spirit of maintaining stable public finances, are focused in the future and also with the eye, that the debt that has been raised in the past, in particular, is to be repaid, of course. Let's do this for now. Of course, as I say, I suggest that you do not support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u189	The word has magic. Marko Pogačnik, representative of the proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u190	Mr President, thank you for the floor. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we regret that the coalition has once again decided not to support one of the opposition's proposals, the Slovenian Democratic Party's proposal. I am convinced that the proposal we have drawn up in the Slovenian Democratic Party is primarily for the benefit and well-being of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. I am sure that politics does not do enough for citizens and citizens of Slovenia, and in the Slovenian Democratic Party we are convinced that now is the time that allows the reduction of value added tax rates. We believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that economic growth should also be known in the Slovenian and Slovenian wallets, so that the reduction in value added tax rates would also mean higher consumption. Higher consumption also means higher growth and better quality for the economy. A better economy means more jobs. We believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that reducing value added tax rates to a pre-crisis level would not compromise public finances. We are convinced that there are enough reserves in the budget for such a measure, one such saying is certain that there is a tax debt of 1.3 billion in Slovenia. From 2014 to today, Slovenia has written off more than EUR 500 million in tax debt. More than 500 million Euros of tax debt! On the other hand, the European Union's financial perspective offers Slovenia a €3 billion funding draw by 2020. So far, this government has managed to pump or infuse only €70 million into the budget. There are still a lot of reserves that this government can't see or can't use. On the other hand, this government and this coalition are additionally burdening the budget. In particular, the expenditure side of the budget. Where the economy is successful where the economy has returned, this government and this coalition with additional public sector employees are burdened. Eight thousand new employees. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that this number is alarming, that it is too high and that it is not primarily about improving services, but that it is primarily about meeting certain client interests and client training by ministries. This government is not as successful as the Secretary of State himself is trying to present it. The fact is that the country's debt has increased since the start of this government's mandate to date; from 26 to approximately 27 billion and a half, what this debt will be at the end of this year. Don't hesitate, Secretary of State. Look at the numbers. The fact is, compared to 2014, this government has more than one and a half billion euros in higher tax revenues. And you do not find this courage to lower the value added tax rate by two percentage points! However, the Slovenian Democratic Party would also introduce a second reduced rate, a reduced value added tax rate of 5%, which would mainly include products that are essential for life – food, children's allowances, electricity. Unfortunately, once again, it has proved likely that you will end your mandate as the only government that has not accepted any proposal from the opposition. Not a single motion from the opposition! I think that's sad enough. However, I am sure that next year citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia will have the opportunity to go to the elections and say how pleased they are with the work of your government. Today, I guarantee, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party, that we have in our programme, as presented by the expert board of the Committee on Finance in the Slovenian Democratic Party, that if we win, we will reduce this value added tax to a pre-crisis level. This means that the value added tax rate will be reduced by two percentage points, the reduced rate will be reduced by one percentage point from 9.5 to 8.5, and an additional reduced rate of 5% will be added, where those vital necessities will be: food, clothing, fire equipment, electricity. I am convinced that by such a measure, reducing value added tax, every year any Slovenian family could save more than a thousand euros.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u191	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask if anyone wishes to discuss it further under Rule 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I'm guessing yes. If a representative of the Magi proposer also applies to the debate. Marko Pogačnik and the representative of the Government will receive the word as the last, first the representative of the Government and then the representative of the proposer. Please report to the debate. The application shall be made. Mr. Jean Mahnič gets the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u192	Thank you, Chairman. I have not heard, for any significant reason, from either the socialist or the liberal side, that, let's say, I would endure if we took away this public financial picture so that the law we are proposing should not be adopted. I used to think that I was a liberal when I advocated a reduction in VAT when I advocated smaller bureaucratic obstacles for our entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs, for citizens and citizens, but of course in economic terms – as far as the values are concerned, I am a conservative – but when I hear then that, and more times, even those in our Parliament who had liberals or liberals and raised taxes, burdened citizens and citizens with new bureaucratic obstacles, I really don't know what economic liberalism is anymore. Or, if we believe more and more, a liberal means that you are liberal only as far as values are concerned, it is said that the Church is strongly opposed, supporting the same-sex children and adopting the same-sex couples, as far as the economic programme and the economy are concerned, of course, a hard socialist line. I am particularly disappointed by the SMC client, who said and somehow indicated where she wants the Slovenian economy, how she wants to see a Slovenian citizen with more money in his pocket. I just don't see why the country has to raise money for citizens and citizens and then distribute it through the budget. Of course, it is logical that to some extent this is necessary, but there are things that the state must regulate, why not at least leave it to a certain extent – and here we are talking about these reduced rates and reduced VAT – at least some money for citizens and citizens to decide for themselves how to spend it, because citizens and citizens are not/we are not stupid enough not to be able to deal transparently with the money we deserve and also to spend it on their own free will. And that's what this is all about! I really thought that SMC as a liberal party, which in some ways had a liberal programme, was the programme that you in some way presented before the elections, in particular a free economic initiative, which is also, of course, a consequence of de-barcation and a more favourable tax environment. This law, of course, does bring this about, but there will be some obedience to such proposals. I would even like to say that we should not have to make such a proposal because when preparing the budget, they would say, okay, the crisis is over. However, here with Dr Mitja Horvat, I agree with the crisis concerning spending, in particular, yes, absolutely, sustainability of public finances, the golden fiscal rule, but it is necessary to find reserves. I still believe that we give too much money into a variety of subsidies, of which there are virtually no results. But here, if we give money to people, if we let them have more income from their income, income to make the results better than we have in a lot of subsidies, where we know how money is being shared. If we look at the Social Democrats' project on – I don't even know what the project is called, run by Futura, about local healthy food production. In short, here are the reserves. If we across all ministries, at all levels, look at how many such projects there are, how many such things there are, believe me, that this way we would have citizens and citizens so much more that we could really afford a little more expensive local food without paying Futuri not to talk about how the project was chosen, that their people were sitting on commissions and so on. This would be a measure against achieving similar effects in some way to subsidies where we throw money aside.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u193	The word has magic. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u194	Thank you very much, President, for your word. I must say, today's five-hour debate is very pleased with me. I must say that this law, proposed by the proposer, is pleasing. While we know that many people live below the poverty threshold with extremely low incomes. But is this the right way to lower taxes? I don't think so, but we should do something to raise our salaries, raise our pensions, and go this way. Of course, we have high economic growth. We can only hope that she stays that way. I think that a good week ago in one of the newspapers, it also said how long this economic growth is going to be like this, we can ask ourselves. That is why we need to think carefully today and consolidate public finances so that what is happening to us does not happen to us. I hope we've learned something from past governments. The “Golden Generation of Members” was said in one of the previous discussions. That there was a large financial inflow in the government at the time 2004-2008, and then the population and the economy were burdened. Taxes were reduced by 600 million at the time. Where are we today? At the time of economic growth, it is necessary to make supplies, including at home in the household, when we have money, most likely, we need to cut and put aside some euro, for you never know when you will be out of work today. We also talked about unemployment. The applicant also stated that more than one hundred thousand people are unemployed. I have to say, it's not like that. According to the state of November 2017, these 82 thousand 415 are 15% less than in 2016 and 8.8% less than in 2016. To tell you the truth, for 2014, at the time of this mandate, this amounted to 14.2 % and 129 000,843 job seekers. There was also talk of firefighters, VAT on firefighting equipment in order to essentially reduce this measure. Firefighters have the opportunity to recover this VAT and in 2017, a little less than EUR 1 million was distributed to fire brigades and contracts are concluded under the Law on Protection against Natural and Other Accidents and the Firearms Act. To continue, even six months ago, the proposaler is a magician. Marko Pogačnik said when adopting the Framework Decision for the preparation of the budget of the state sector for 2018-2020, quote, “mainly that the Government should take care of higher budget revenues.” Today's proposal follows that? I don't think so. He also stated, quote again, "The fact is that you are running out of mandate, but given your policy and the stability of public finances, that you will bring the country or public finances, probably when the next government comes, I fear that the next government will have to re-adopt some ULJF due to all the mistakes made by the government of Mira Cerar or the coalition of the Party of Modern Centre, Social Democrats and Desus." Do I have to repeat why all these measures have taken place? I think that where we are, that this Value Added Tax Act was adopted at the time of the Public Finance Balance Act, there was a crisis, indeed, it was, to be confirmed, but today, when we have economic growth, we need to be careful that we act socially responsibly. I think I'm gonna end up in this place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u195	Mrs. Vojka Shergan has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u196	Thank you for your word. I would like to respond to Mr Tank when he explained the period 2004-2008 when there was growth and compared it with today. However, I would like to share this comparison in such a way as to point out that during the period 2004-2008 economic growth was based on corporate and state debt, while today's growth in the time of the Government of Mira Cerar and this government, which is working successfully – I stress that today's growth, stable growth, is based on exports, consumption and start-up of investments, and that is the basis on which the next government can be, in some way, on these successes or on those foundations that we set up, then the next government can build. Then I would also like to point out that there were no major projects in the time of the Janša government, so that at the time of the next government there was no larger investment cycle of the country. Today, projects are being prepared, the second track project is just before implementation starts and also larger investments, which have already started somehow and are under way. Also at the time of the appearance of the government of Mira Cerar, the finance ministry has first diverted funds, I will say simply, from the sidewalks to the energy rehabilitation of buildings and the renovation of buildings, where there was a threefold multiplier effect that companies could start, I will say, works in the field of mainly small and medium-sized enterprises, renovations of buildings where this effect was both on energy savings and that smaller companies also had a job. In addition, funds for the construction of hydroelectric power plants, the Mokrice hydroelectric power plant has received additional resources to build hydroelectric power plants now because it is also a circular economy and an additional effect. I would also like to touch on increasing public sector employment. However, the public sector needs to be divided into smaller and wider sectors. Even a 0.5% reduction in employment has taken place in the Lower State Administration from 2014 to 2017. Employment in the wider public sector, in the area of health, social protection, education and education, has indeed increased by 6%, but there are services, here is an increase in services, which is not the direct cost of the budget, but it is also part of services on the market. Then I'll respond when it's said, what a great damage it's been that we didn't get a threesome from abroad. I think that given that the opposition advocates that more needs to be done for people, a troika from abroad, at least according to some economists' estimates, would bring about the possibility of saving the country, but all the public finances being saved would work on people's shoulders. Yes, people would be even less disadvantaged, and pensions would be further reduced. Look what's going on in Greece! I think that this is one aspect, and the other aspect is that I think we have enough people in the country to run this country, to rehabilitate it, and whatever it is that always resources and people find themselves inside the country, and that it is wrong that even after some of the past events in Brussels, and somehow over the citizens, I will say, or through the direction of the impact. [[…]] It is right to agree in the country, it is right for people to talk, and it is right to stick with each other when we leave the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u197	Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u198	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr President, the people you are meeting, please tell Mrs Vojka Shergan which indicators are going into economic growth. There is exports, there is investment, there is spending, there is a lot more going on, and debt or credit does not go into economic growth. Please explain it to her, because apparently the government representative won't tell her. It is a shame that a serious discussion is burdened with some false, inaccurate, and unrealistic statements. Credits do not go into economic growth. They don't count. But investments, domestic consumption, exports and so on. If not, send her to read an article, and look at the criteria in which it is written. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u199	Thank you very much, Mr. Jože Tanko. We continue with Mr. Joseph Horvato. You have five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u200	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Some of you agree that there is nothing we can do, if you, the budgets for 2018 and 2019 are under the roof. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, I am very concerned. We have a FiscalI world that was very critical to the rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018. That's what my colleague Tanka warned us about. I am also adding a critical comment or critical assessment on the structural imbalance in the budget balance for 2018, but nothing is said about this. But who will listen to this Europe, this Brussels? We don't even respect our own Constitutional Court for certain matters. Why was I talking about freedom? Because this is what our Slovenian constitution is talking about, which is very good. Above all, here I am thinking, inter alia, of Article 74 of the Constitution, which says that the economic initiative is free. How do entrepreneurs, ladies and gentlemen understand that? So that when we visit them, we ask them, tell us what to do for you, politicians, and they say, "Let us do this." It's freedom. We also want this freedom, from New Slovenia, to an individual citizen, but not that the country sits on every euro it has and wants to control it. Wait a minute, it's over! That is why in New Slovenia we also advocate a model of the socio-market economy; that of Ludwig Erhard. But there was a shock in January 2014 – I am fortunate to find this, Google finds it all – and then, you will not believe the then president of the party of Social Democrats Dr. Igor Luksic said, January 2014, quote, “it must be built on the goal of quality life for all people to build on a model called the social market model.” Well, that's why they dropped him. So much for that. I admire here some Members, more than Members, who are exceptional specialists for the analysis of the period 2004-2008. He's talking about overheating the economy. What's that? That doesn't say anything. See, in 2008 the debt of the sector was 21.9% of GDP and was at the bottom. He's only been going up since then. And where are we at the end of 2016? At 78,5 % of GDP, almost 80%, this percentage almost tripled. This is absolutely €31 000 730 million. And 31 billion more. I would like to say, repeatedly, we are talking about the number of employees, we are talking about the number of active people, not the percentage of unemployed people. That's out of the question. I'm sorry. No connection. Let's say the number, we're talking about the number of employees, and then you'll see the numbers that are fragrant. For example, in 2008, we had about 60,000 more employees than on average in 2016. Sixty thousand people were employed at the time. But if we're talking about the number of active people, that means that I have to add up to the self-employed farmers, then this number that speaks for 2008 is about 62,000. It is said that 62 thousand more were active population in 2008 than the average in last year. Not to mention the permits for foreigners who were able to work in Slovenia at the time, I think there were about 90 000. The numbers need to be looked at, not just saying that the economy is overheating, but the lady does not actually know – I don't think she knows; well, I wouldn't want to hurt – what that actually means. Sometimes I wonder, from today's perspective, how much investment we have made; in the highway area, reconstruction of the railway line Prague-Hodoš, 460 million and so on and so on. My colleague, Private Shergan, said that the government had no projects to go on 2004-2008. Take a look – I think it's called – a resolution on national projects. It's big projects, we're in 2023. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u201	Dr. Mitja Horvat has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u202	Thank you very much for the word, Mr President. Dear Members and Members! I am very happy about this additional possibility of these five minutes, because there are some things I have not been able to talk about before, and now I think it is absolutely necessary to talk about it. First of all, thank you very much to colleague Bojana Muršič, who has beautifully displayed with numbers and reasoned in fact what we are talking about today. I'm really sorry if that makes you nervous, but these are simple facts. I didn't make up a crisis, I didn't go into politics because the placenta was bedding and it was something comfortable. I went because we were in a very bad time, and that's all I said was that this period happened after the bloom and after the golden generation you're talking about. You can't spend more than you create. Makes sense. With all the burdens to which we have entered with a clear goal of normalising things, to stabilise public finances, to stabilize the environment, to enable a new boom, to start an economy, to individuals, to realize their talents, so that they can freely and responsibly shape their lives, as Mr Joseph Horvat says. These are things and, of course, all the interests that appear in this society would be satisfied. But unfortunately it is not possible and unfortunately we are talking about this bill today about a crisis that was very well said to have not been created today, but in fact I have to ask you who you know who knows why the crisis did not occur, why our colleague is wrong when she says that the economy overheated with the loans that were granted during this period of prosperity when it was spent, and that is why it is always hard for me to attribute something to us that you have done, do or wish to do. Unfortunately, we're not in that position. We have come and of course absolutely agree, the voters will say, the voters have asked me in the beginning, before I entered this place, whether it will be worse than it is. And I told them as long as I was and as long as I could, I'd take care of it with all my beings and grains so it wouldn't get any worse. There's been enough deterioration, enough taking. It is necessary to create conditions in which people can live without fear, where they can plan their future, where they can deal with things they like, because, of course, they will be able to provide conditions for themselves and for their loved ones. Of course, we must all, unfortunately, contribute to stabilising the situation. The circumstances that we haven't caused, and so please, I mean, everything that's here stops, in fact, I can't say otherwise. [[…]] But to tell us that we are responsible for the crisis and that people live the way they live, not living in the same bloom they lived in 2008. Here, please, at least a little respect and a little real look! Several times it has been said, and now in this time I have left to work only in the public sector. Yes, please! Of the data provided, it should be said that there were 125 000 unemployed in 2014; today, as has already been said, there were 82 000. The difference is for my taste if I can quickly calculate 43, not 7 000, to the extent that the number of employees in the public sector has increased. If you look at the labour force, where you find that the data is a little bit worse, I know that not everyone is employed in the economy, that there are many self-employed people, but these are forms that we simply cannot tolerate and that we have to eliminate. But they certainly did not arise at this time, because certainly the Modern Centre Party did not create the conditions for people to live and work in situations like these and in the situations they are in today. That is why, of course, I know and believe that we will increase and that what people need, because in all areas we have to take care of services, and that is why these services must also be provided in the public sector. Not only has there certainly been more people in the economy than in the public sector! [[…]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u203	Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Mr President, please inform Mr Horvat that a large proportion of the people in the unemployment register have gone because many young people are moving to foreign countries because the number of migrant workers is increasing considerably and more than 8 000 have been employed in the public sector. So much so that the picture's clean. Apparently, he missed all that information. And he missed something. He used to say vehemently that we can use as much as we can create. So far, while you have a government, nominal debt has increased. So you've spent more in this government than you've created. I would very much ask and expect all those who are discussing the right information to speak and that, when the President sees it, he will also draw attention to such statements. Because holding the meeting also means that you care about the correctness of the information which is public. Otherwise, the Minister is here, and he can explain it further if he wants to. So I ask you, who are leading, as well as the other presidents, who will continue to chair the meeting, to make sure that we operate here with the right information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u205	Mr Tanko, you are inviting me to take your thoughts to the other Members. You have warned of certain anomalies according to the data, even on your part, quite a few sour words have been said. If I only mention one, 100,000 unemployed people we haven't had in over three quarters of a year. I can warn everyone again and also you personally and your colleagues, but I don't think that's how we're going to get anywhere. Therefore, I conclude the debate and the proposal for a conclusion that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, tomorrow in the framework of the votes. This also interrupts this agenda item. We're moving to 20. At the very first stage of the day-to-day procedure, this is the proposal for a law on the procedure for the judicial protection of holders of qualifying liabilities of banks. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. With regard to this bill, a group of 19 Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the Minister of Finance, or mag. Matei Vranictor Erman. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u206	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The economic crisis, which primarily affected the economic sector, expanded into the banking sector in 2011 and 2012. With a view to restoring financial stability, the Republic of Slovenia was in a situation where it had to implement measures to rehabilitate the banking sector. The rehabilitation of banks from public funds under the conditions laid down by the European Union rules on the granting of State aid required the establishment of a new legal framework that would allow the holders of qualified rights, i.e. shareholders and beneficiaries of different hybrid and subordinated instruments, to take over part of the financial burden of this recovery. The Bank of Slovenia Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Banking Act, which was adopted in November 2013, laid down rules under which the Bank of Slovenia may have imposed a measure to terminate the qualified liabilities of the bank in difficulty. All provisions of the Banking Act governing the implementation and expression of an exceptional measure are measures to terminate qualified obligations and have been subject to a constitutional assessment. The Constitutional Court has confirmed the constitutionality of the provisions on the basis of which qualified obligations have ceased. Due to the absence of specific procedural rules for the compensation disputes of former holders against the Bank of Slovenia, the Constitutional Court for Unconstitutional has recognised Article 350a of the Act. In the Constitutional Decision, the anti-constitutional void is related to the right to access data, the burden of proof and the consolidation of procedures. The proposed law lays down a procedure for the judicial protection of holders of qualified obligations which takes account of a constitutional decision, thereby eliminating the anti-constitutional void found. The right to access data is regulated in the draft law in order to ensure that applicants have access to the data they need in order to prepare their claims, while also ensuring the protection of private and confidential data and of the business secrets of, in particular, third parties who are not directly related to the subject matter of the dispute. With regard to the issue of the burden of proof, the proposal provides that the Bank of Slovenia will have to prove these in the event of a dispute over the existence of reasons for the exceptional measure. The burden of proof is therefore on the Bank of Slovenia. In the event of a conflict, it will also have to prove that former holders of the emergency measure have not suffered more losses than they would have suffered in the event of a bank bankruptcy. The speed and cost-effectiveness of the procedure shall be ensured by the collective nature of the proposed procedure. Therefore, the proposal for a law provides that proceedings under this law shall be merged and that the court shall issue a single judgment in respect of a separate decision of the Bank of Slovenia. The draft law was prepared with the aim of ensuring a procedure that respects the Constitutional Court's decision and allows for the speed, economy and uniformity of decision-making in disputes between former holders and the Bank of Slovenia, while ensuring the protection of the rights of other participants in these proceedings. I propose to the National Assembly that the proposed law support it as appropriate for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u207	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, a magi for her. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u208	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law that we are considering today is the result of an action to rehabilitate the banks that were implemented in 2013 and 2014. At the time it was shown that the depth of the so-called bank hole was so large that it threatened the continued existence of banks and the functioning of the Slovenian economic system, a set of measures had been adopted by the State to recapitalise banks and became their 100 % owner. For a good part of the bad claims, the State has set up a Bank Claims Management Company and has allowed claims to be transferred to it. The banks were not only rehabilitated by public funds, but in compliance with ECB and Banka Slovenije legislation and decisions, bank capital holders, including holders of their qualifying subordinated bonds, also had to participate. These were dismissed in the process. Since the Slovenian crisis, the way in which Slovenian banks were rescued has continued to become a European model for bank resolution and ensuring their stability. With the introduction of the Banking Union and the Single Supervisory Mechanism, the European Central Bank has taken over the largest system banks in the European Union. European rules also provide for a way to save banks in the future. Their key requirement is that prior to the country's inclusion in the banking recovery, existing capital owners and holders of subordinated financial instruments, such as bonds belonging to the bank's capital, are involved. The State is supposed to be involved in banking recovery only when the capital of the owners and holders of subordinated capital cannot be provided for the continuation of the safe operation of the banking institution. Last year, the Constitutional Court decided that part of this solution, as implemented in Slovenia, was inconsistent with our Constitution. The Court did not object to the participation of the holders of subordinated bonds in the resolution process of banks, but found that the holders were in breach of constitutional rights, namely that they were not given the possibility of judicial protection or opposition to decisions of the Bank of Slovenia which determined in individual banks the means of recovery and participation of the owners in it. The key problem with the measures for the rehabilitation of banks was that the declassified holders of qualified obligations could not, on a judicial basis, challenge the decisions of the Bank of Slovenia or obtain information to enable them to prepare and file an action for the protection of their rights. The Constitutional Court thus ordered the legislator to adopt amendments to the legislation which would allow the affected to seek their right in court. The proposal for a law proposed by the Government therefore focuses primarily on ensuring access to the data required by the injured party to prepare the action or to decide whether or not to decide on the action at all. Furthermore, the law lays down how actions can be brought and procedures brought together, and much attention has been paid to ensuring that courts are provided with expert assistance with appropriate knowledge on the basis of which they can make decisions. For the law defines what kind of legal dispute this is. It is a matter of assessing whether, at the time of the decision, it was actually necessary to adopt a measure to relieve the holders of the qualifying obligations. Thus, the proposal in the second article provides that former holders are entitled to compensation if the damage caused by the deletion is greater than it would have been if this exceptional measure had not been implemented. As a key subject of the dispute, it is therefore determined whether the situation in banks at the time of the decision was indeed so necessary and necessary to prevent bankruptcy. If this is not the case, the holders of the obligation shall be entitled to compensation in the amount of the difference between the correct and the actual implementation of the measure. Many want this law to provide a definitive answer to the question of how deep the bank hole has been and whether it has been properly assessed. This is a really irresponsible question that many have asked, but this is mainly about those who have not been allowed to resort to judicial protection, and in particular they need to be provided with information that will enable them to prepare the action if they decide to do so. The debate on this law is not a trial for bankers, not Banka Slovenije, not the Republic of Slovenia, not holders of subordinated obligations. The trial will take place in court. The legislative proposal, because of its specific nature, also contains certain provisions that have already raised a lot of dust in the coordination phase, notably a provision that seeks to prevent so-called monetary financing. The State cannot unilaterally intervene in an independent central bank and impose financial obligations on it. Therefore, the legal proposal provides that if compensation is awarded to the claimants, the Bank of Slovenia and the Republic of Slovenia shall be liable for faster payment to the injured. The funds invested will be required by the Republic of Slovenia in a separate procedure if it turns out that Banka Slovenije did not act as a good host and expert in the implementation of the rehabilitation. He drew a lot of attention to the so-called Committee of Experts, which the courts would be able to set up to help them decide on professionally specific issues. These provisions are controversial for the Social Democrats, as they do not ensure that the appointed members will be truly professional and incorruptible. The limitation of their awards to five times the level of awards for judicial experts is already more at first sight a measure to increase their payment than a measure to limit excessive fees. We have a number of concerns in the Social Democrats' Group on a proposal for a law, but we believe that the adoption of the law is essential for the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision. The legislative proposal at this stage therefore constitutes a basic one, on the basis of which a suitable law can be drawn up and, of course, it must comply with the Constitutional Court's decision. Therefore, in the first reading, we will vote in favour of the conclusion that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u209	Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u210	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The consequences of the Slovenian bank hole are known in many areas today and represent an extremely large developmental bar of the Republic of Slovenia. It seems that it will be a long time before we can close this sad chapter of Slovenian banking history. We all know that the Slovenian bank hole also flooded the issue of so-called subordinates. On 19 October 2016, the Constitutional Court decided that judicial proceedings to determine the appropriateness and extent of possible damages for the deletion of subordinated obligations were unconstitutional. The Court has set a 6-month period within which it is necessary to provide adequate judicial protection by amending legislation and access to information and data on bank assets. Unfortunately, it has been more than a year since the decision of the Constitutional Court. Today, the bill is before us. The holders of subordinated bonds have indeed taken a slightly higher risk by purchasing such securities, but they must nevertheless enjoy the right and the opportunity to identify the legality or illegality of the deletion in a process which will also actually allow and regulate full access to all, to decide the relevant information. In Novi Slovenija, we would like to finally find out the appropriateness of the assessment of the situation in banks, on the basis of which our taxpayers paid so much money for the bank hole. A key emphasis on the issue of legality procedures in these cases is a marked imbalance between the two sides. On the one hand, we have a country or Banka Slovenije, on the other hand, we have former owners of subordinated bonds, which must prove that the behaviour of Banka Slovenije was illegal, that conditions were not given to delete, that the assessment of the situation in banks was inadequate. It is extremely difficult to prove, so the Constitutional Court has decided that allegedly damaged owners of subordinated bonds must have access to the specific economic assessments on the basis of which the Bank of Slovenia has decided to delete. Unfortunately, we estimate that the bill does not provide adequate access to this information. We believe that access to all data should be ensured before the action is brought in order to enable the applicant to produce the content of the claims on this basis. In Novi Slovenija, since the problem of the deletion of the owners of subordinated bonds, we point out that the assumptions for the assessment of the situation in Slovenian banks have not been presented to the public. We therefore advocate that the Bank of Slovenia publish all the data on the basis of which it could determine whether the assessment of the situation in banks has been found to be correct. This is also important for Slovenian taxpayers, who eventually paid for the recapitalisation of banks. We believe that the weight of the consequences gives the Slovenian public and the economic profession the right to know what was happening in the background of these processes, which would also require the principles of democracy. In Novi Slovenija we are also disappointed that the Government did not comply with the proposed law with the stakeholders involved. We will not support this bill in the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u211	The text is given by the Left Group, Mr Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u212	Thank you for your word, chairman. Good-bye! The proposed law would first be put into a somewhat broader context. The Slovenian banking crisis was, we know, a result of the global crisis that arose outside Slovenia. It is true, however, that the dynamics of the financial crisis in Slovenia were either responsible or justified by internal factors. The main internal cause for the development or start-up of our crisis was the policy of the first Janshea government in the time before it. The first Janša government, by lowering taxes and paying debt too slowly to domestic banks before the crisis, has further strengthened the growth of credits, which has already been so extreme. In addition, the government has prepared a legal basis, such as the Takingovers Act for Taiwanese takeovers, and has privatised the New KBM. The privatisation of New KBM was carried out in the form of sales to citizens. And it was these hundreds of thousands of citizens who bought the shares of the New Credit Bank Maribor with savings that lost everything during the era of the crisis. The external cause of the crisis was the functioning of the European institutions. If the European Central Bank and the European Commission acted roughly as the US and British authorities did, there would be no debt crisis in Europe. There would be high public debts, but there would be no bankruptcy of countries or a collapse of the financial system. But instead of mitigating the crisis, the European institutions have sharpened it. However, it has been sharpened to force neoliberal reforms on the periphery and asset privatisation. Of course, the benefits were Western capital, which weakened competition and cheaply acquired foreign assets, particularly the assets of banks in peripheral countries. The most scandalous example of damage to public property in our country and property was the privatisation of the New Bank of Maribor, promised by the government of Alenka Bratušek, and carried out by the government of Mir Cerar. The consequences of the financial crisis in Slovenia are also so severe because the Slovenian political class has collaborated more significantly than the Italian or Austrian institutions. I can illustrate this with two examples. The government of Alenka Bratušek agreed, without objection, that Slovenia has played the role of the test rabbit of the new banking policy. The only one in the European Union has agreed to delete small shareholders without any compensation. This was also imposed on Austria, but it did not agree to be deleted, although it was subject to the same rules. Slovenia has also agreed to an assessment of the capital deficit, which, as we know today, has been overestimated several times, even though they were subject to the same rules as Austria. Second case. The government of Mira Cerar, without objection, sold the New Bank of Maribor to the American speculative fund Apollo at a price significantly lower than the real value of the bank. In the case of New KBM, she did not even try to propose a suspension of sales, which she now proposed to NLB to at least slightly repair the price. Italy and Portugal have acted differently and have not sold the state-owned banks to Apollo. Why am I telling this story? Because this law comes from the same title as the responsibility for erasure, excessive rehabilitation and ultimately the sale of banks. And in this, in my opinion, the reason that the law is written is so that the relaxed citizens will not be compensated. The Courts will have to answer the question of what would be better for the injured — the dispossession or bankruptcy of the bank. However, the banks had positive capital under international accounting standards, so it cannot be argued that they would go bankrupt without Banka Slovenije's actions. On the contrary, the Gorenska bank has never been recapitalised and has not gone bankrupt. He's doing good all the time. The proposed law, however, prejudges the decisions of the courts and narrows down the possibility that the victims will be able to pay damages in a practically impossible scale. The proposal is indeed written in such a way that the flatterers will not be able to prove the injury. This is also confirmed by other provisions of the law. The law does not, for example, allow for the timely acquisition of information for their actions. All information will have to be obtained through a court which may refuse any request. This is also, after all, in direct disagreement with the Constitutional Court's decision, which explicitly stated that the public authorities should receive this information directly in their view. But the Ministry of Finance has decided as it is, and we can therefore expect that most applicants will have to file lawsuits without the necessary information. This, of course, will be the reason for these claims of compensation to be rejected. Another technical problem associated with this is the high court costs and the provision that the decision of the courts will not apply to all citizens who have been injured but only to those who have brought the action. Thus, the law has already put citizens with low incomes on the sidelines, which have already been the most affected by depriving them in one way or another. We will not support the law because of all the above-mentioned Members of the Left. However, since we estimate that in the second reading, there is some possibility of reforming the law, there is, we will vote abstention if the coalition does not propose – or now we will vote abstention and in the next round against if these improvements do not happen. And in the end, that's what I'd like to say. Citizens' empowerment advocates often say that more than a hundred thousand citizens have reduced the cost of rehabilitation for the country by decommissioning. This argument is inadmissible for three reasons. The main reason is that overcapitalisation of banks was the most responsible assessment of the capital deficit. This assessment has been forced and substantially exaggerated, and this can be said with certainty. Correspondence between officials of the European Commission and our bodies proves that the European Commission has decided, however, that the deficit must be so great that all stocks and bonds can be erased. And since the capital deficit assessment was too large, more money was invested in the bank than was needed to remedy it. The second reason I would like to point out is that the dispossessment of citizens who co-owned the New KBM did not in any way contribute to the reduction of the liabilities of banks. The share is not a claim on the bank, so the need to recapitalise citizens has not decreased by a cent. Of course, someone will say that subordinated bonds have also been deleted, which has contributed to reducing commitments and thus deficits. In this case, however, the State has affected domestic entities that own insurance companies, including itself, because the majority owner is the largest insurance company, i.e. the Triglav Insurance Company. And lastly, it must be said that the same people, led by Governor Boštjan Jazbec, who now represent themselves as defenders of public interest, are also forcing the privatisation of the rehabilitated banks, and this privatisation is the last nail in the coffin. The excess capital invested in banks has not disappeared. This was an investment in the value of banks and this capital is now either in the value of banks or in their balance sheets. The sale of banks below the price, as was sold to NKBM and as forced sales to NLB, would, of course, result in a definitive loss of this value for the country. Therefore, to conclude, I call once again on the Government, stop the privatisation of banks, leave the property of the citizens alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojan Krajnc will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u214	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister with the team, colleagues and colleagues! The proposed Act on the Judicial Protection of Qualified Obligations Holders of Banks is proposed by the Ministry of Finance, following a decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia of October 2016, which, for an unconstitutional, met Article 350a of the Banking Act of 2013, i.e. the novel ZBan-1L, because it did not deal with certain issues which should be settled following a decision of the Constitutional Court. These questions concern the right of access to data which would enable applicants to draw up an action, a burden of proof and a combination of judicial proceedings. The Constitutional Court has ruled that article 350a is inconsistent with the first paragraph of Article 23 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which governs one of the fundamental and very important constitutionally protected rights for each of us, that is the human right to judicial protection. In this regard, with this right, the Constitutional Court stated in its 116th recital to the decision: "The first paragraph of Article 23 of the Constitution stipulates that everyone has the right to decide on his rights and duties without undue delay independently, impartially and by law a court established. The right to judicial protection provides for the possibility of bringing the matter before a court, which will decide on the matter in a reasonable time, i.e. on a substantive basis. It is therefore a matter of guaranteeing a decision on rights and obligations or a decision on whether a legal claim under substantive law is justified or unfounded. Judicial protection must be effective, which means that it can effectively defend its rights, interests and legal benefits. In the determination of the content of the right to judicial protection, the Constitutional Court has always been based on a general premise which does not aim at the Constitution in order to recognise human rights merely formally and theoretically, but on the constitutional requirement that their effective and effective enforcement be ensured. The right to judicial protection referred to in Article 23, paragraph 1, of the Constitution does not constitute the right to a specified judicial procedure. Judicial protection against decisions taken by public authorities, including against administrative decisions, may also be provided in any other case, such as a judicial procedure or in proceedings before a court other than the Administrative Court, and to a extent appropriate to the nature of the legal relationship.” End of quote. Furthermore, the Constitutional Court stated in recital 123 of the decision’s reasoning: “Bank investors claim, inter alia, that, due to the lack of data, they will not be able to properly substantiate and prove the claims in compensation disputes. This observation is true." In this respect, the Constitutional Court points out that the Court of Justice applies the provisions of the Judicial Procedure Act, which allow the defendants to obtain all evidence of importance both from the counterparty, in this case the Bank of Slovenia, and from third parties, as provided for in Articles 226 to 228. The Law of Justice. If any of the documents relating to the specific deletion or conversion of qualified obligations are classified under the Secret Data Act, it is necessary to take into account any other decision of the Constitutional Court, which I do not specify here, as regards the entry of the parties to a fair procedure. “It is for the claimants in damages disputes because they do not know and cannot know on the basis of which and on what specific, economic and financial assessments the Bank of Slovenia, in a particular case, may have opted for such a radical measure as deletion or conversion, the difficult design and substance of the already fundamental ground of claim in relation to the existence of claims of compensation liability. The applicants were not given access to information and data relating to the valuation of the value of Banka Slovenije's assets and other documentation prior to the submission of the contested action and did not provide them with information on the details of the operation of the banks.” What is not the effectiveness of their compensation protection. “The legal options of the defendants would be effective only if they could have full access to the documents relating to the deletion or conversion available to them by the Bank of Slovenia, after which they must have sufficient time to prepare the application.” End of quote. Back to the bill. The draft law regulates the right of access to data and documents taken into account by the Bank of Slovenia, or should be taken into account in an emergency measure to terminate qualified liabilities of banks and for each bank to publish facts on which exceptional measures are based, including a decision by which an exceptional measure has been taken, and documents showing the content of the contractual relationship between the Bank of Slovenia and the person who has made estimates of the value of the assets of banks. In addition, it is also governed by the Court of Justice’s own case, which the Court must decide whether former holders are entitled to compensation for the damage resulting from the procedure for filing and the content of the action, the merger of proceedings, the common authority for at least 30 former holders with a view to limiting judicial fees to a maximum of EUR 1000, the impact of this judicial procedure on other proceedings, the submission of evidence to the court, the disclosure of data and the questions to be clarified in the procedure for determining eligibility for reimbursement, the expert committee for professional matters and the decisions of the court. Finally, it also provides for liability for compensation for damages, compensation to claimants, reimbursement of suspended funds, calculated compensation payments and disclosure of the actual beneficiary. For the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, it is crucial that the proposal of the Law fully eliminates all the individual non-constitutional elements contained in the relevant decision of the Constitutional Court and establishes a clearer and more understandable and even more fair and transparent solution, which, by their purpose and purpose, will fully follow the decision of the Constitutional Court and will not lead to the same or other new unconstitutional situations. The Group of the Modern Centre Party will support the proposal at first reading, but we do not rule out the possibility of supplementing or modifying it after coordination with external and internal stakeholders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u216	Dear President, Honourable Minister of Finance, colleagues, colleagues! We have before us the unconstitutionality of the law on the judicial protection of the holders of and comments on qualified liabilities of banks. This law is based on the decision of the Constitutional Court. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the Constitutional Court has gathered enough courage to erase and that it has decided that it is unconstitutional and that judicial protection has been denied. The proposal for a law prepared by the Minister or the Ministry of Finance is seen as a great disappointment in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We are convinced that there is a lot of empty content in the bill itself and that in fact this law does not follow what the Constitutional Court has been referring to. If we look at why this happened, I don't think it's appropriate to explain history again now. Some members of the Slovenian Democratic Party have been reminded of the possibility of unconstitutionality when this law was passed in 2013. However, the disappointment in this part of the bill is that even after the assessment of the Ministry of Justice, this law, which is prepared, does not eliminate the constitutionality found and, in some opinions of lawyers, even this unconstitutionality strengthens. In the Slovenian Democratic Party and in the Group of Members, we call on the Minister of Finance to answer all questions concerning the comments made during today's debate. It is also very important for us in the Slovenian Democratic Party that those to whom the Constitutional Court has somehow admitted that their rights have been violated and that the matter needs to be re-established have made a number of comments. In fact, comments were made on each article of the proposed law. The key issue mentioned here is in particular the disclosure of documents. We are also convinced in the Slovenian Democratic Party that this part of the law itself is not sufficiently specified to open up a huge legal void. In fact, even the calculation of compensation does not indicate how a number of questions will be made or raised, and in the opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party, an article which also speaks of the establishment of so-called experts on professional matters would say that they are either irrelevant or that they may actually be called here by people who have actually been involved in the removal of the taxpayers themselves. We are confident that in this case there would not be any decision that would be fair. The law itself in some parts, even in the opinion of the Small Shareholders of Slovenia, rather than retaining the right, further violates this right of holders of qualified obligations to effective judicial protection. As I have already mentioned, in the opinion of the stakeholders here, this law makes it difficult, say, to access documents and data that have been the basis of stress tests and thus significantly makes it difficult to demonstrate the incorrect method and assessment of banks' assets. We are convinced that this deletion of subordinate bonds was unfounded, incorrect and also among the sharpest in Europe. It was deleted here for about €624 million in bonds. In what way will this damage be detected in the event that it is found that it has occurred, I would say, is also one of the important issues raised by the Minister or representatives of the Government. In fact, since this is the decision of the Constitutional Court, we believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that this law is necessary, that the National Assembly must urgently accept it, and that we will not, in fact, oppose the process itself in the first reading in the Slovenian Democratic Party, because we are convinced that this process must go on. Even now, we can say publicly and call on the Minister of Finance to ensure that if there are no changes to this law and that the law remains the same as it is, the process by the Slovenian Democratic Party will not be supported. The key issue that we think is for the Ministry of Finance or the Government to explain why this exacerbation of the disclosure of documents that we think is the key to a real decision at all; the calculation of the compensation, whether it is appropriate or not, and, above all, to the experts on these professional issues. Last but not least, the time components, the filing of lawsuits and all that, the objections – they seem too short for us. So a number of things this law doesn't meet that you should. We are convinced that this law should be written much better and that this is also a major disappointment by the Ministry of Finance. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will only support this law if it follows the comments of the professional and interested public and that we will support such a law that will enable effective judicial protection and create clear conditions for determining the value of compensation. But according to our conduct, the law itself does not. Once again, Madam Minister, support in this part of the law will only be given to the fact that the process can go forward. However, in the event that all these anomalies, all these legal voids, uncertainties and perhaps even in some parts, that this proposal of yours, which is prepared, even deepens the unconstitutionality and that in many parts it does not follow what the Constitutional Court has demanded, we will certainly not support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacič will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u218	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, honourable Members, a very nice greeting once again! The Bank of Slovenia Act, adopted in November 2013, laid down the rules under which the Bank of Slovenia could impose a measure to terminate the qualified liabilities of the bank in difficulty. By the end of 2013, 620 million Euros of subordinated instruments had been deleted under the adopted law. With regard to the constitutionality of its provisions governing this termination or disqualification, the Constitutional Court has adopted a decision laying the groundwork for the law that we are considering today. Its main objective is to legalise a procedure for the judicial protection of holders of qualified obligations which will take account of that decision. The dischargeees were therefore in a weak position in the matter of judicial protection, following the fundamental principle that former holders would be entitled to compensation if they were worse off from the decision of the Bank of Slovenia than they would have been if there had been no decision. The bill seeks to ensure the speed, economy and uniformity of procedures. It is important to ensure that applicants have access to all information that may be relevant in the proceedings. Two-stage access to information shall be determined by means of a court to publish documents and data on the Bank of Slovenia’s public website and to access data and documents which are personal or confidential or business secrets. If the court finds that former owners are liable to compensation, it will be paid by Banka Slovenije, which will be temporarily financed by the Republic of Slovenia under the Ministry of Finance. The Republic of Slovenia will then apply, in a separate procedure, a request against the Bank of Slovenia for the reimbursement of the temporary assets established for the payment of compensation in respect of the share for which it is responsible. This will take into account the prohibition on monetary financing provided for in Article 123 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU. If it is necessary to establish or clarify the facts, the expertise which the court does not have will be able to appoint an expert committee on professional matters. In the Desus Group, we will be particularly rewarded for their work. When further consideration is given, we will also be very careful about the provision governing that those who were in any way linked to the creation of the bank hole would not accidentally become members of the committee of experts. Finally, let me say that we strongly support the solution that any compensation is not paid to fiduciary funds in tax havens but only to known owners. In addition to the need for some minor amendments to the bill, we agree that further consideration is needed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u219	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr. Janko Weber has the word to prepare himself for the Mag. Dušan Verbich. Here you go, Mr. Webber.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u220	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. In view of the fact that we are talking about the Law on the Judicial Protection of Qualified Obligations Holders of Banks, it is very important that this law also actually means the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision, which found that the deleted holders of subordinated securities were not provided with adequate judicial protection. This law must certainly follow this request of the Constitutional Court. I am concerned, however, that we have before us instead of a law that could have maybe two, three articles, which would state that it is necessary to calculate the bank hole, if I simply call this principle, a comparison between what it calculated on the basis of the specific criteria set by the Bank of Slovenia, a comparison of how much this bank hole would actually be if it were calculated in accordance with international accounting standards that are binding on all EU Member States, and probably wider. But if we remain within this framework, this is certainly true for EU members, after which many procedures for the rehabilitation of banks are also being carried out, but nowhere have they been carried out in such a grave and terrible way for citizens and citizens of Slovenia. I am, of course, concerned about these 43 articles. They do not contribute to allowing access to adequate judicial protection, but rather to prevent it. When we talk about the consequences of such behaviour, I am afraid that we will again be in a position when, for example, we have deleted or sued for the sake of savers from the former republics of Yugoslavia, all of them have fallen or all the complaints have succeeded in European courts and all the obligations have then fallen directly into the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. I am afraid that if this law fails to achieve its objective, something similar will happen again and again we will have very serious financial implications for the state budget. We have to stop this. It is better to look at the matter immediately, rather than delaying the proceedings and then, over the years, to find that we have only blurred the situation with this law, but have not discovered the data necessary to make an effective case for all those who may have lost their subordinated securities following a false assessment of the bank hole. That's one category. The second category also applies to all those who went with great confidence to purchase shares in New Credit Bank Maribor. You too, I hope to say, have been played out because some foreign financial funds from tax havens have made an excellent profit through this purchase. In just a few weeks, they resell those securities and made very large sums. All the other citizens who trusted all these assurances by then also Minister Bajuk that it was a safe investment were practically left behind, not only without their securities, but also many without their savings that they had invested in buying these securities and many are therefore also on the verge of their dignity or can surely be found in that category of 400,000 people in Slovenia who live on the brink of poverty. Therefore, the content of this law is extremely important in order to give a clear answer to these people, how they can protect their legal interest. I do not think it is good to build on this law a new error, but we must go in the direction of remedying this and ensuring effective judicial protection for all those who will require it through these procedures, which the law is supposed to provide. Of course, it is not just natural persons, it is also all or to a large extent also for insurance and pension companies and funds in Slovenia, who also wanted to elevate the funds they also have for the provision of pensions by purchasing subordinated securities. Thus, even the pensions of many, if they have been made in an irregular way, will in fact be significantly lower because they have been affected by the adoption of the law and measures proposed by the Bank of Slovenia. So, these are terrible consequences for people, citizens and citizens, and since we are representatives of the people, it must be our first question whether we have protected their interests and adopted laws and decisions that will enable them to have at least effective judicial protection in this case. Therefore, I cannot support such a text of the law, as it has been tabled in the debate, because, according to my assessment and even after the assessment of many who have read this law, it is a matter of preventing effective judicial protection, it is a matter of preventing the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision. I also believe that the only important and good solution in this law is the one that speaks of whether or not they are entitled to repay lost securities as those who will not reveal their identity. This cover-up may be one of the abuses that have taken place in this system and this law has abolished it. This may be the third, fourth article that might be needed in this law. In short, we need a short, clear law to be understood by every citizen, including one of the 100,000 who lost, say, securities in the NKBM. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u221	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dušan Verbich, get Mr. Jože Tanko ready. Here you go, Mr. Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u222	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Dear Minister with colleagues, a handful of Members and Members who are present, a nice greeting! I must admit that I have listened with interest to the presentation of the groups of Members, and since it is a general debate, I will also allow myself a few words in this generality. The fact is that some of the presentations made by the human beings simply disappoint, especially because obviously the parliamentary groups are following through their client policies, if I may say so, a very attractive policy of statements, which are, in some ways, mainly based on words of some effectiveness, but simply cannot be seen. Here I have to admit that I have little criticism of respected colleagues from the New Slovenia Group who have simply categorically rejected this bill, but at the same time, in similar cases, and also on this subject, it is often to hear how much concern there is for citizens, citizens who, in particular, have been deprived of, harmed or damaged by the highest political authorities in their past decisions. I am pleased to present the biggest opposition party, where, despite their great concerns, they are somehow aware of something – that the decision of the Constitutional Court must simply be implemented. I will continue to say a little more about this, but I am very aware of something, and there is certainly a great deal of different interests on all sides regarding the content of this bill. I certainly think that it is under-emphasized or almost neglecting that group of interests, especially citizens, who, with their savings in the past, primarily had savings in state-owned banks, generally under deposits, and then, with the various approaches of bank officials, convinced these citizens primarily in order to turn these deposits into state-owned bank securities. Here I think that all those members, Members of Parliament, Members, simply ignore this group of people, and that is not enough. The other thing is the other categories that I'm going to touch further. I believe that in such different forms of interest, views, including the views of political parties and policies, it will certainly be difficult to reach a common denominator in order to ensure that those who have already applied for compensation, those who are more or less in the process of preparing or waiting also specifically for this law, whether they will receive support or not, through compensation claims, try to exercise their right, which they have achieved in the Constitutional Court. This is not so enunciated, and therefore I have a very big concern for those colleagues and colleagues who, through political rhetoric alone, are considering this bill. At the outset, I would like to say immediately that, despite the many concerns that I will raise in the general debate, I am thinking, in particular, of paragraphs 21, 22 and 20, some of them, and two of them, that this bill simply needs to be supported in the first reading. I expect this to happen, that this bill will be supported tomorrow, and the parental committee will have a very difficult job to get what I mentioned earlier on to a common denominator, especially in favour of former securities holders and as few political rhetoric as possible. As far as the content itself is concerned, at the principle level, surely my debate, as usual, is and will also be very critical. The fact is that in relation to this bill we have to ask ourselves whether the securities holders of NKBM, NLB, Abanke, the real natural and legal persons, citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, have already been sufficiently protected in this context, since Members have to face their rights or the right as former bond owners and bank shares to provide them with the best possible form or way to seek this right in the competent courts. This is the commitment of this National Assembly, to the realisation of the decisions of the Constitutional Court. On the other hand, I must admit that I miss an essential element already in this part of the presentation. We're not even talking, except for the marginality of the possibility of compensation. The fact is, we're not blinding ourselves and the public, we're talking about the potential of hundreds, millions. Is that 100 or 400 or 600? I don't know. However, this is a reality and a very crucial question in this part is who will pay this compensation. Whether this will be paid by the State from the budget, says taxpayers, whether it will be paid by those who in the past have made individual decisions in the form of decisions, it was the Bank of Slovenia. I have been so absolutely interested in this very moment, no matter how the procedures are then somehow defined in some of the articles of the bill's proposals. This is mainly because we Members are also very aware of the activities of this independent independent institution, named Banka Slovenije, which in all ways is completely legally opposed to the Court of Auditors' review. Also with regard to this topic, which has already been pointed out in the presentation by Members and, as is well known, also by the introduction of a constitutional complaint, precisely on what we had adopted before the adoption of the amendment of the Bank of Slovenia Act, so that the Court of Auditors can examine a certain part of the business which is completely reasonable and should not be a problem at all for the Court of Auditors not to examine this institution. So much for this part. I think the question is whether there will be any more talk about this today, but I expect on the home committee that there will be a few words about it. In this regard, many would also like to know which persons were the holders of management at the time of the issue of securities purchased by citizens or legal persons. Without this, I do not think we can simply go into our debates without saying after which persons or entities were able to purchase individual emissions of such securities from state-owned banks, which were known to have been issued to certain groups in Ireland and Luxembourg from a long time ago. It is very unusual or, if I may say otherwise, there is even a high probability that those who have had the possibility of such a bond issue or any securities of those same banks owned by the State are likely to have even received a loan from these banks to buy it. And if it happens that these loans were also subject to the clearance of these banks through the transfer procedure to the DUTB, then we must be really afraid. I expect these issues to be cleared up in these debates, even when we are on the parental committee. I would be happy to be in perfect error, but some of the clues are certainly circulating, there are, and some investigative journalists have written about it years ago. I must admit that in this work I must also touch on what I have already touched on other parental committees, or in the Republic of Slovenia we can already talk about the need to be at least concerned in the legislative branch of the government about the functioning of a deep state. When you touch that, it's as if it's not present with us. Just because many warn both in Slovenia and outside our borders about the presence of a deep country, there is one piece, in my humble opinion, present here. For part of the so-called financial and economic governance of the State, which should and is under the authority of every single authority, clearly happens to pass through the current branches of power. Therefore, my great opposition is already in coalition coordination against the 21st and 22nd paragraphs of this bill, which is through the so-called person who is supposed to propose a separate branch of government, and that is when we decide – a person. It is true that the judiciary is not obliged to accept names, but why does the independent branch of authority, in this case enforceable, want to suggest and propose or launch certain names? It's always true, everyone's got their own reasons. What is certainly a key issue in this general work, at least as far as I am concerned, in the follow-up to this law is a key issue for me and it will also be clear how much party policy affects us, Members, to decide or to make certain decisions on a Article that may go very contrary to that matter which has already been present in the presentation of some. Whether a proposal for this law will give or even slightly conceal the possibility that persons who have been employed in state-owned banks have, directly or directly, had the opportunity to influence decisions in these banks in the final phase of this so-called 5 billion-dollar bank hole. And maybe something else, over which, I have to admit that we're disgusted, including this so-called money laundering and so on. That is why it is so much more my determination to simply not allow such a law to allow any minimum possibility to be allowed through a client's door to some persons; it is simply not a complete closure. Even when we were talking in coalition coordination, that with certain conditions, restrictions yes, sorry – you can never fully limit yourself, except that you don’t give an option at all. So much for this part. I will only conclude that I hope that the Republic of Slovenia is not at this stage of a deep state, given that in the past individual decisions were at the top of political power and that I will not just be general, as usual in political debates, with a concrete case. As you know, I have also mentioned several times that I do not understand why the political decision of the current authorities took place in 2013 when the private bank was maintained. I'm talking about Probank, I'm talking about Factor Bank, I'm talking about Abanka. I will not now say what amounts this meant for taxpayers, but it is undeniable that when the recapitalisation procedures took place, a simple account was made available to taxpayers, and this matter is spinning and will obviously continue. It is therefore an obligation when we talk about amending or proposing such a law that we are extremely careful about those activities that have been in the past. Now, a few words about the bill. I must admit that I do not understand why the Ministry of Finance has started this legal procedure for so long or more than a year after the decision of the Constitutional Court, which means that this is being submitted. I say here in the introduction that I do not accept that it was necessary or that long-term coalition coordination was necessary, because, I admit, there were these 6 or 7 coalition coordinations, certain matters were being moved. I myself believe that not in the entire content of what is necessary, but what is crucial, as I mentioned earlier. Articles 21 and 22 simply persisted and still persisted. I am also very interested in the following, how we will then take our place on the parental committee itself and also identify ourselves on such matters. But if we are late, given that the Constitutional Court somehow gave the deadline of June 2017, a constitutional decision should be implemented. Here I have a completely on-the-spot question – the reason why the Ministry of Finance simply did not stick to this deadline. For according to the principle of the rule of law, the government is the one or the departmental ministry that, in accordance with the rule of law, must respect the decision of the Constitutional Court. I am not going to start now whether this is any of their reasons: lack of expertise, different interests, lobbying contacts – I simply don't care. It is a fact that man expects that these hands are respected by his own Constitutional Court. Perhaps, however, the reason was that the applicant or the drafter of this law was seeking solutions in order for former securities owners to be, in particular, those which, as I mentioned earlier, had been depositors who had savings and who had been converted from the various slopes and levers of bank employees to the so-called securities, to still exercise their right in court. Perhaps they are considering a bill to make this procedure a little more difficult for them with someone, whatever the case. I don't know. The reason for the delay may be different in one way or another. What is third, however, I must admit that honest thinking, or, as a proposaler, how would those holders who have paid off securities emissions abroad in particular, if I were here at the New Ljubljana Bank, which is some kind of emission – I will not be talking about amounts – that will be enough time – which has been issued in Luxembourg to ensure that, despite all of this, these funds are made available. I am pleased that the proposal for a law now makes this very difficult, but I do not know, perhaps these were the reasons why it is practically more than six months after the deadline set for this law before us. In this part, I must point out one more point that, as a Member – and here, I also expect colleagues and colleagues of the National Assembly to follow the proposals of both the Government and their own views, and to the maximum extent to provide a good basis for the exercise of the rights of those who feel that they have been harmed – but that we should simply not allow any provision of the law to appear, which could ultimately form a separate branch of power, and this is a judicial, possible decision that would not be in favour of the expectation of the injured, to be imposed by the legislative branches of the authorities. As strange as it sounds, here I have to highlight or summarize the words of the predecessor, the distinguished minister, Dr. Marble. For when we Members were somewhat displeased with the activities of the SDH Supervisory Council, Minister Marble said to us very nicely and directly: "Do not invoke me, I only proposed, you Members have accepted them." And he was right. That is why I am so much more careful in these contents, which may have certain provisions with perhaps very significant dual meanings, which we as Members do not perceive when we are received and read. I certainly have a number of questions from this title as to the content. First, what the coalition coordination says is that the independent branch of power, the judicial branch of the government, is what is said in certain interviews itself, has stated that knowledge of banking or such may not be at a very high level and may be a problem in making specific decisions. I wonder here whether such statements are for a good purpose or if there are other reasons behind them. As a member of the Committee on Justice, when we discussed the annual report of the work of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, where the President of the Supreme Court was also with his team, he made it very clear to the members of the committee that the competence of the judges, regardless of the areas in which they belong, is very high. For this reason, I do not see at all any need for words to appear in the arguments under Articles 21 and 22 to assist the judiciary in some proceedings that will be followed in the determination of injury to potential victims. I feel the same way as I do in some way between the autonomous branches of government, you can comment or comment in any way that there is a desire to provide assistance. I think that in such a case, and in particular in a specific case, the judicial branch of the authorities must act entirely independently, independently, and also the legal basis should not be such that the other judicial branch of power should go to them in any way to help them. If the judicial branch of authority is already assessing that it does not have any specific knowledge, it has a number of mechanisms through experts. That is true, we also face or obtain information in one way or another that the judicial branch of the authorities, in criminal matters in general, is also seeking assistance from foreign experts. And I don't know why it's so convincing and hasty, but it has to be Slovenian bankers, anyway, or financiers from the Slovenian space that the Government will appoint or propose and then let the court decide. Firstly, I do not understand why this is such a strong position, because such persons would be granted status on the basis of such provisions of the law, say – write an expert over all the rules applicable to the acquisition of expert status. We can turn a lot of things around here, because it'll be just for advice, help and the like. However, I do not comment on certain costs. That's not what I'm getting into. It's very important to me how this content is. Therefore, as a Member, I firmly believe that there is no argument that this remains as far as these provisions are concerned. Why is my attitude so strong? Given that we were also faced in public when my government also publicly advocated or supported the position of the SDH Supervisory Board in appointing or proposing members of the Supervisory Board of the New Ljubljana Bank, with a trinity that was at that time practically in the power of the New Ljubljana Bank. Good thing that didn't happen! Either way, whether this is a criticism to this government or not, I am talking about the credibility of the one who proposes. For this reason, I believe that such matters are the subject of debate in the National Assembly, so that something similar simply does not happen again. For the end of this general work, before I give any more words to the content. As I have already mentioned several times, Members simply need to be aware of the importance of this kind of content of the bill as well as the potential amounts they represent, because this instant of reply is not available either for the country or for the Bank of Slovenia. It is highly likely that something will most likely have to be returned through compensation claims. I guess so. Not everything is as crystal clear as it may appear. In proof of my skepticism, all the activity I mentioned earlier – the Central Auditor of the Bank of Slovenia, who is in no way allowed and tries to avoid the Court of Auditors' review by various receptions. If these matters were as normal as normal in normal business, no one defends any audit, and especially an institution in which all citizens trust very well. I therefore hope to say that there will be no easy debate on these matters on the parental committee as well. A few more words about the content itself. I must admit that I am very negatively surprised, especially with regard to statements or records concerning these committees of experts – I specifically spoke of Articles 21, 22, where it is also written in some way, “a political assessment of the provisions of the Committee of Experts is necessary.” My question is, who benefits from it? With great certainty, I say that this political assessment does not benefit those who have held deposits in state-owned banks and, as I have mentioned several times, have been negotiated in one way or another. I believe that in good faith, because they also trusted, because the stake in the state bank is something permanent. That makes sense on old years or at any accident that you have some kind of capital. Surely, though, no one agreed or thought that he would be taken away in one way or another, especially in order to cover the so - called bank hole. That's why this red thread will always be present. As far as court fees are concerned, I must admit, and here I am grateful that we have talked very well and I am still in the position that no court fee should be limited, in any way forgiven or restricted. As far as court fees are concerned, the judicial system already knows that those who do not have the resources are on the normal course — and any judge without reservation gives an order for the exemption of a court fee. However, if it was meant here to limit court fees to a level, especially for those who speculate a little bit, which paid off securities through a trust account, then I am even more determined that those who have to pay one or another amount of tax. Next. Why does the Republic of Slovenia have the status of a foreign intervener? Here I think I will be pleased to hear in which legal relationship with the Bank of Slovenia, in particular because there was some way of speaking, protects the legal position of the Republic of Slovenia. Who has already taken this decision for recapitalisation? Who has already decided to delete the securities owners? That's how we turn around here all the time. Towards the end of this 20th article, which states that everything must be clarified in a court of law. I have more and more questions and problems with this 20th article as well. Why should the law define an area where issues should be resolved? This is a direct intervention for me into the judicial branch of power! The judge is the one who, by his duty, by his profession, by his ethics, by his righteousness, has to decide and judge in which part he will take all the evidence into account, so that in the end that judgment, as it is said, will drink water. And why, in the law, in an article of the provisions, should we define or limit which things should normally be resolved? I just don't understand. I am done with this, as I said in the introduction; I have no problem and will also confirm this bill, but I expect that on the parental committee these different interests will crystallize in a way that really makes it possible for those who feel that they have been injured to provide them with the best possible basis for enforcing their claim for damages, in the direction of expectations and decisions of the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u223	Thank you very much. She asked the Mag for a word. Matthew Vraničnik Erman, Minister of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u224	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A few things have come up in the debate that I would like to respond to so far. But I'll start at the end. I strongly reject any suggestion that we had any hidden purpose in preparing this bill or any other bill. Our purpose has been very clear and determined by a decision of the Constitutional Court: it is necessary to ensure that the right to effective – I emphasise – legal protection is effective and that the Constitutional Court lays down three elements of this effectiveness to be addressed by law. One is access to documentation and evidence, the other is who bears the burden of proof and the third is how to ensure the speed, economy and uniformity of the procedure. And these are the questions that this bill addresses. It addresses them not as I would or would like to be addressed by the Ministry of Finance, but as it has been coordinated and agreed within the current coordination process. The first version of this law did not come to the table of the National Assembly, the 20th version of this law came because it was because we were aware of the importance of this law that we had carried out a whole series of coordinations with different stakeholders. Lobbyists were also among them; yes, lobbyists who defended the interests of one, other or third group of prodigals. All of these contacts have been properly reported to the Commission for the prevention of corruption, but it is only right that we have spoken with them in this process. If you confirm this bill as suitable for further consideration tomorrow, we will continue to talk because we want to clear things up so that these people, these companies will be provided with effective legal certainty or an effective legal path. We have listened to the views of the Ministry of Justice and this version of the law before you is fully aligned with the Ministry of Justice. We have listened to the views of the Supreme Court, we have listened, as has already been said, to the views of various interest groups, we have listened to the position of the Bank of Slovenia and the European Central Bank, we have listened to the political views of individual political parties [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] - Individuals, I said. And believe it or not, the views of the stakeholders with whom we coordinated this bill differed in many ways. With the greatest expertise, we have assessed where the balance is appropriate between the different interests that have been crystallised in this process so far. I am not saying that individual solutions cannot be improved, because, as I have said before, we will also consult in the further proceedings if you find tomorrow that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration. But I will take this responsibility in advance to defend those solutions in the bill, in which I believe even after my professional salary. If I now focus on individual elements of the law or on individual issues that have been raised. I will return to the above-mentioned 123rd point of the Constitutional Court decision, which discusses the evidence or information that the applicants must have at their disposal or which must be made available to them. The Constitutional Court, at the end of this point of its decision, shall state that they must have the opportunity to have full access to the documents relating to the deletion or conversion available to them by the Bank of Slovenia, after which they must have sufficient time to prepare the application. This position of the Constitutional Court is then continued in the footnote, where it points out that in relation to this regime of imbalances with regard to available information, account should be taken of or compared with a solution, as in the case of competition protection in Article 5 of the European Directive in this area. This Article, which speaks of the disclosure of evidence to be made available by information-strengthening parties, speaks of national courts restricting the disclosure of evidence to what is proportionate. We followed this direction when we came up with a proposal for two-stage access to data. In the first stage, basic data will be disclosed publicly, on the basis of these data, potential applicants will be able to decide whether or not to file an action and at the same time may request the disclosure of others, if you wish, of all the information necessary to substantiate their claim. These documents will be able to access these data in a way that will ensure the legal protection of personal data and business secrets provided in this data by Banka Slovenije. By this two-stage approach, we ensure that applicants can have full access to the documents, but at the same time we do not violate the same constitutional principle of other persons who are not directly involved in these proceedings, so as not to disclose to the general public their personal data or data which would constitute their business secret. As far as expert experts or expert committees are concerned, no one has ever claimed that the courts do not have sufficient knowledge of banking law. The courts shall assess legal matters, but in the general proceedings of the Judicial Procedure Act, as well as other procedural laws, shall provide for the possibility of appointing experts who decide or do not decide who provide information and clarifications on professional matters, not legal matters, on other professional matters. This is something perfectly normal in fair procedures. Why the board of experts? In view of the assessment that, given the complexity of the problem that the courts will have to face, it is appropriate to have more experts at the same time, not an individual expert. In our view, this can contribute to the quality of the decision. If the National Assembly feels otherwise, it is always possible to clarify the issue in the legislative process. Why is it proposed that the Republic of Slovenia take part in procedures as a party intervener? However, it is in the interest of the State to be involved in these judicial proceedings, to monitor them and to be able to cooperate with its statements, with its evidence, with its views on the matter. And I don't really see why that would be problematic. How will compensation be provided? This also provides for a two-stage rate due to the speed of the procedure or the speed of the definition of compensation. The Court will find that the injury has occurred, will determine the difference or damage to the individual, and then, in order to avoid the court continuing to deal with each individual claim, it is proposed that the Court itself make a mathematical calculation of the damage in the light of the Court’s findings. In this way, since it is only a matter of mathematical calculation, no right, no judgment, no data at this stage, will in fact contribute to the cost-effectiveness of the procedure. The validity of the decision against everything. This arrangement was envisaged – this is the so-called erga omnes effect – which was foreseen in one of the previous versions of the bill proposal, but at the same time, when we had this provision in the bill, we also restricted the right of who to bring the action at all. There are no further restrictions on the right to bring an action in the draft law currently under consideration. Of course, we expect small investors in particular to join together or to seek common Commissioners in the form of consumer organisations, shareholders' associations and so on. We want to make it easier for them to access such actions, but if we do not have a restriction on the one hand on who can bring the action, then there is no reason for them to have a provision on the other hand that the judgment has an effect on everyone, whether they have brought the action or not. As far as the deadlines are concerned, we also wanted to ensure that the actions are brought within a reasonable period of time and that the judicial proceedings can be brought together and carried forward, but of course this solution may still be the subject of further discussion or further coordination. Once again, this law is a procedural law, which addresses the issue of effective legal protection, does not refer to the question of whether or not the injury has occurred, this is a task that will have to be done by the court. This bill, in conjunction with the general rules of the Judicial Procedure Act, in our opinion, provides a good basis for a court to decide on it. However, as I mentioned earlier, we do not reject the possibility of further improvements to the text and the accounts that we will be able to use time until the second reading for further constructive debate in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the word to prepare himself for the Mag. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u226	Thank you so much for saying that. With regard to the management of the Slovenian banking system at the time of independence, we can only find out that a series of errors, a series of extremely expensive errors were made during this time; from the beginning, when the Ljubljana Bank was renamed the New Ljubljana Bank, and beyond. The characteristic of this period is that at the time people were just rotating after individual functions, even until recently; whether they were finance ministers, whether they were governors, or whether they were in business banks bodies. This is just a circle, for a while here, for a while there, but mistakes were repeated, extremely expensive. [[…]] In any court proceedings Slovenia or the banking system of Slovenia did not come from it without damage, let it be Croatian savers, let it be, let it be, I don't know, anything – whatever you did, they did, there was enormous damage everywhere. In the meantime, there were two recapitalisations in which nothing could be identified, not anyone, not why, I don't know – nothing; everything was the worst protected state secret. It also bothers me that today there is no Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek here when this matter arose. She then said that the banking system in Slovenia would be saved by the Slovenian troika, composed of Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek, then Minister of Finance Mr. Chufar and Governor Boštjan Jazbec, was a Slovenian troika. I think the current minister was then the secretary of state at the Ministry of Finance. That's what it says, anyway, is involved in the system of production, I'd say, these bank delusions that have happened. Whatever our efforts at that time to access some real data to find out why these problems had arisen, we repeatedly ran against the wall of silence. A wall of silence in the government, a wall of silence in the Bank of Slovenia and elsewhere, and in the coalition of the present. A few Members who voted in favour of this law are here today. I mean, they're not here, they're members of this assembly of the National Assembly, and they have a lot of people to say how and what this should be done, but then they voted to make such a decision. It must also be very frank to say that what happened at the time of the adoption of that amendment is essentially after World War II, when we subtract the revolutionary regime, the greatest nationalisation of the property that has ever happened. The biggest nationalisation of the property that's ever happened! And we are dealing with the exact same problem as that decomposition during the totalitarian regime — the correction of injustices. What we have on the table is an attempt to correct the injustices of those who were then experienced, I will say, state discharge. The official who did this did not resign, the governor who took part in this unconstitutional decision is still the governor – no one demands his replacement, no one suspends him. So the regime is being maintained. You will remember, from time to time after Janša's second government, that as far as the banking system is concerned, because then these things began to be opened and discovered, we introduced several laws in banking; this is what the Bank of Slovenia Act says, we have introduced the Bank of Slovenia Act, even in this mandate, we have repeated some things because we have requested or proposed that at least those criminal things become public and clear. That's what stopped it, too. Here we also had several meetings of the National Assembly, where we proposed different conclusions. This was not accepted either. Now that we don't know anything, when we don't even know what the actual hole is bank, we don't know, we're facing the correction of the injustices where they're locked and released. And now we're dealing with how we're going to do this to these people who just lost hugely, 600 million is this package that's ahead of us, another billion 400 is what's not yet ahead of us, how we're going to settle these things. But for what happened, no one is responsible. No official is responsible for this procedure; not those who have accepted it, not those who have prevented the measures we have proposed. Nothing! That the matter is even more problematic, we in the Slovenian State Holding Act at the time when we prepared it, but it was not adopted at the time because of the collapse of the Janša government, we predicted a third of the members of the opposition's supervisory board, whichever it is. Definitely a third of the members. When the government of Alenka Bratušek came into existence, all of this was simply eliminated and the entire bodies of the Slovenian State Holding - not to say DUTB - were formed by a coalition. To put it even more precisely, more or less under the influence of Bled Business School. If you look at a little history when this was discussed and decided, you will see that the key actors involved in these recruitment decisions were somehow related to Bled Business School. I don't know, it was some kind of special staff kit. However, I am in favour of correcting the injustices, I say this very clearly, I am in favour of correcting those injustices that you have not yet proposed with the correction of the law, and you have also dismissed the shareholders, perhaps we are now identifying these procedures in an unnecessary and unjust manner. And that's not from that time when the secretary of state was the first law to have a constitutional opinion. The real estate law also fell on a similar story. But the people who suggested it, who took it through all the procedures with such or different persuasions and scales, are simply still officials. I think that's the problem. [[…]] No self-criticism, no responsibility. There you argue or you say with your finger for some kind of wealth, but here, when it comes to, I don't know, a third or a quarter of the state budget, here the financial consequences of this, because you have to fix one way or another, no one is responsible, just how and what you would do, and only in half. I think it's important to fix these things, and I think it's important to take responsibility. An integral part of this process of redressing injustices is taking responsibility for what has been done, for the wrongs that have occurred. They cannot carry out their tasks at any level by a person, nor by a politician, nor by a public institution at any level, if they have committed as much as they have done; but not by the creamy, criminal act, if I may say so domestically, as it has happened here. There is no country in Europe, no country in Europe that has afforded one such measure as this, such as depriving Slovenian owners of subordinated bonds and shares. So I hope that in the coalition you will be able to do this, as best you can, and correct the injustices brought by this law, that you will also come with another law, which has that one billion 400 others who have lost their assets, and that you will ensure that those who have caused this will also leave the banking system and also the political functions they perform. This is the minimum standard required for such rehabilitations. Someone who can't calculate the static in construction and the house collapses — it shuts down. Someone who doesn't know how to calculate the static of the banking system and the system breaks down should also be shut down. There is no difference because the consequences of the collapse of the banking system are much worse than, say, one semi-structured building. Your Honor! I hope that what I said will happen, and that will happen as soon as possible, otherwise we will spin around in a vicious circle because it covers each other, protects each other, this something half-second thing in half We have cases when the bank fights in all possible ways, the Bank of Slovenia, so that it will not show documents that we cannot on the investigative commissions to the documents, everything defends itself by judicial decisions for months and months, then at some level it decides something and so on. [[…]] In short, the whole system is locked in here in some bug and acting like it's untouchable. Like all citizens, others are subject to the principle of responsibility for the actions committed and the correction of injustices for all. I suggest you do this as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u227	Thank you very much. He's got the word "mag" before he concludes. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u228	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I would not repeat what my predecessors have said, but it bothered me, Madam Secretary, one word you must follow in the preparation of this law of various interests. You must follow the decision of the Constitutional Court, not the different interests, as you said. It bothered me, or maybe I didn't get you. What interests do you pursue, Your Honor Minister? What interests do you pursue? You must exclusively follow the interests and decisions of the Constitutional Court. I have repeatedly stressed, when the law, including this one, was adopted that this is illegal and unconstitutional, deleted and that this is an infringement into private law. On the one hand, it is a conflict of interest for me to take part in the drafting of this law, since you were when the Constitutional Court realized that at least Article 350 of the Banking Act was incompatible with the Constitution, you were the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. It's not good. Also, why has the removal of shareholders of major system banks been eliminated? Why isn't he here? This case is still open to me, too. This is an invasion of private property. It's an invasion of private property. You took her away. Just like in 1945, you came here now and you took away a private right. That's not good. Look, Madam Minister, in the position I have presented as the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not object at least in the first reading. I won't personally object to that either. But in the second reading, if the marriage stays the way it is, we will oppose it. For this law does not follow the decision of the Constitutional Court. The key issue is, see, the distinguished minister who is, why did this decision of the Constitutional Court come about? In view of the fact that it was not possible to protect those cases in deleted cases and because it was not possible to verify these valuations and data and also to appeal against this case. Today, after four and a half years, there is still a lack of insight into these valuations. However, the valuations, Madam Secretary, are crucial here, because the valuations have led to this deletion. The second paragraph does not yet state that before disclosure, according to the previous paragraph, Banka Slovenije conceals information deemed confidential or personal data in accordance with the law. Why? But here I think that there should be no more conflict of interest or that only those who have suffered some damage are entitled to this data. I too am interested in this Article 21 and the Committee of Experts on the Expert Question. What's this for, why? Don't you trust the Slovenian judiciary? What are some external organs supposed to be responsible for? Because the judiciary has its own people who can justifiably interfere in these matters here. Why does it have to be third? I am confident that if these articles remain the same as they are, they will allow someone who has been actively involved in these matters to sit on these committees, directly or indirectly at this stage. I believe you will now tell me that whoever was directly involved is not; but here it is also direct and direct. I'm curious, Your Honor, where was this marriage prepared? Was this law really being prepared at the Bank of Slovenia? That's what the media wrote about. Tell me where this marriage was prepared and why such a delay. The Constitutional Court gave you a six-month deadline. Why do you give up on such important matters? Please tell me the names and names of those who participated in this law or whether persons who are not employed in the Ministry of Finance or Banka Slovenije participated in the preparation of this law. Why did you decide that Banka Slovenije is the one who repays this damage? And is there any calculation of this damage that may have occurred in the event that this error is found to have been made? Of course, because you said that the one who pays the damages under this law, Banka Slovenije – does Banka Slovenije have these funds? If not, how will the matter be resolved? Also in the calculation of damages, species, type of legal void in this law. It also seems to me, Madam Minister, that in this answer you gave in this debate, you are aware that this law is still incomplete and that there is still a number of things that will have to be remedied and corrected. But the thing that bothered me the most about your speech is that you will follow different interests. Here, personally, there are no different interests, here must follow the Constitutional Court's decision and provide judicial protection and there will be no re-establishment of an unconstitutional state. I'm sure there's been a huge injustice here. And who will be responsible for this injustice? I think there are quite a few Members and Members in this National Assembly even now that they have, I would say, confirmed or not opposed this law. Even the veto of the State Council on this law has been, you have not followed, you have not followed any of these warnings about what is happening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u229	Thank you very much. We are moving to the conclusion of the debate. The word has magic. Matthew Vranick Erman. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u230	Thank you very much again for your word. Allow me to respond to the final debate in this final part. I agree that it must be of key interest and that the Constitutional Court's decision should be applied and effective legal protection ensured. What I wanted to say, and I may have used the wrong words, is that the views of the interested public on how this interest in the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision can be made very much. And the views on how to approach this are diametrically opposite. It is therefore necessary to find solutions that are professional, efficient and lead precisely to what the Constitutional Court is also going to. We have prepared or coordinated the draft legislation at the Ministry of Finance. If you want, the members were enrolled at the Ministry of Finance, no external expert, counselor or whatever you call him, he did not participate. However, various stakeholders participated in the public debate on this law, many of them. They are listed in the introductory part of the bill and included Banka Slovenije, European Central Bank, Supreme Court, District Court of Ljubljana, Ministry of Justice, various associations of holders of subordinate obligations and so on, individual lawyers, etc. etc. As far as your statement that the bill is intended to exclude shareholders is concerned, this is not true. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Shareholders are treated in the bill as well as anyone else. The law refers to the holders of qualified obligations. Qualified liabilities in the first place are core capital, i.e. shares, and then, in fact, all the other qualifying liabilities referred to in Article 261a of the Banking Act, such as obligations towards hybrid financial instruments holders, obligations towards holders of other financial instruments and so on. In short, they are all treated in the same way, including shareholders. As far as disclosure is concerned. 7. Article 7 refers to the obligation of the Bank of Slovenia to make public on its websites the essential information relating to the measures imposed to delete subordinated instruments and such information, which are publicly published, accessible to everyone, must be regulated in such a way that such information does not lead to a breach of confidentiality or a violation of the protection of personal data. This is the first step in disclosing information that allows only the filing of an action. These are so-called step-storage lawsuits. In the next step, the applicants in the first action will be able to request disclosure of the other information we need in order to produce a definitive, specific claim. This information will be disclosed in the so-called Information Room of the Bank of Slovenia following a court decision and will be disclosed without any information being disclosed. However, they will be disclosed to the extent that I have mentioned earlier, as necessary in order to carry out the procedure. The Bank of Slovenia will not decide how much it takes to carry out the procedure, but rather the court. Why was there a delay? The delay was precisely due to the fact that so many stakeholders were involved in the public debate with different views on how the Constitutional Court judgment should be applied. I've mentioned them before. I wouldn't repeat them. What will be the potential compensation depends on the conduct of judicial proceedings. This law is not prepared to say that there will be no compensation at all, or that full compensation in the book value of actual payments will be paid for these qualified liabilities of the bank. As a result, it is impossible to say in advance whether this damage will be in the nominal value of the subordinated instruments that have been deleted, whether it will be in half of that value, or in a quarter. This depends on the judgment of the court. Why is Banka Slovenije the fundamental beneficiary of the damage? Since the basis of the whole procedure is the measure imposed by the Bank of Slovenia. However, due to the prohibition of monetary financing, which the European Central Bank has specifically pointed out, the law provides for a mechanism, a way for the State to set up funds and, in a separate procedure, to accelerate the procedure towards an individual person, and it is determined how the ultimate responsibility of the person to cover the damage will then come. In short, I think that the proposed law is prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Constitutional Court, professionally and appropriately, but of course I have never imagined, and not this time that all the solutions contained in the law are the only possible. In view of this, as I have mentioned earlier, I allow for further discussion on the preparation of the second reading text. As far as I'm concerned, once again, authorships. Laws are not works of copyright; not by law, not by actual creation. Teams of people are the ones who are preparing a concrete marriage text. It is the minister's responsibility to present the bill and give it a face in some way. That's what my responsibility is in this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u231	Thank you very much. You've got your word. We haven't used up time yet. Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Me? No, no, no. Thank you very much. So I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting of the National Assembly tomorrow, 14. December, in the framework of the votes. I hereby terminate the 20th item of the agenda and also the 36th meeting of the National Assembly. Have a nice night and I'll see you tomorrow at 9:00.
