ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-30-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm starting with the 30th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mrs Iva Dimic since 5 p.m., Mrs. Marinka Levičar, Dr. Franz Runk, mag. Alexander Kavčič, mag. Matthew Tonin, Mr. Jan Škoberne, mag. Andrej Šircelj, Mr Jan Mahnic, Mr Primož Hainz from 2.30 p.m., Mr Franz Breznik and Mr Ljubo Žnidar. I say hello to everyone who's here! Before we begin the session, allow me to briefly address the National Assembly. Respectable citizens and citizens, esteemed fellow Members and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen! Today we celebrate 100 years from what Dr Anton Korošec, on behalf of the members of the Yugoslav Club in the Danish Parliament, read the Majniska Declaration, a document requiring the reunification of all the territories on which Slovenians, Croats and Serbs reside, into a separate state body under the scepter of the Habsburg-Lotarinian dynasty. Despite the fact that the Mainic Declaration of Power came across a deaf ear, Korostje's act was not only historical in itself, but was a step towards the independence of the Slovenian people and the formation of a independent and democratic Slovenia, whose 25th anniversary of international recognition we marked a few days ago. The Mayan Declaration of 1917 is therefore a political fact in addition to the historical one. As that shift towards self-awareness, we deserve our country, where we will decide our future, but at the same time we have taken responsibility for our decisions. However, in order to be able to take a decision and to create a country in a way that will benefit all our citizens and citizens, we must, as we have demonstrated several times before, step together. Enough strife, enough unhealed wounds and enough arguing. It is time to turn the leaf together in our history and start working more actively together. Not just because it's appropriate, but because it's an emergency. Only a nation working together for the well-being of all will survive the “villars of angry cold homes”. Before we move on to the voting process, I would like to inform you that today the National Assembly will vote on the remaining items of the agenda, in order of order as they have been dealt with, with the third reading of the draft Law on Sport to be carried out at the end. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on the Limitation of the Use of Tobacco and Related Products by Short Procedure We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled for the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 52 votes against 18. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 18.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 29th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Health Act is appropriate for further consideration. An explanation of vote on behalf of the Joint Left Group will be given by Miha Kordiš.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-30-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, chairman. The Slovenian health system has too many problems. Two of the main ones are the privatisation through concessions and the afternoon work of doctors in private. Concessions are a problem because they introduce profit-making motivation into the public health system. The waiting species extend through this. If concessions were the solution to the issue of Slovenian health, then the area of dental care, for example, would be best arranged with the shortest waiting periods. This is not the case because we have the most concessionaires there, and this is a very tangible example of how concessions do not work for the public good only allow for earning a certain part of the medical profession. This afternoon’s work of doctors is called hygienic doctors, but the problem is that doctors in the public sector can carry out some private practice in addition to their work and, of course, then travel patients to themselves as a private person as part of their public work. The Health Act, which the Government has brought to the table, addresses all these problems, but in the worst possible way. Now all this privacy and decommissioning of the public health system is taking place in a semi-silient zone, and the government wants this situation only legalized instead of eliminating it. Instead of withdrawing unjustifiable concessions and strict regulations, how and when new ones are granted, we receive virtually life concessions for 15 plus 15 years, i.e. a total of 30 years. The work of doctors working in the public system, at the same time in private, is not prohibited. Moreover, eight hours of work is allowed, so 20% of your working time will be allowed to work as a private doctor from the public system. These are all very poor measures to preserve public health. Moreover, they legalise and support this state, a tendency that has led to a long waiting period and to a general lack in the Slovenian public health system at all. Therefore, we cannot support the Socialists of this law, but we will not oppose it in the hope that all these problematic provisions can be corrected by amendments in the next steps of consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-30-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u3	An explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be given by Mrs Nada Brinovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-30-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u4	Thank you for your word. We will definitely not confirm this bill in the Slovenian Democratic Party. See, the law in the 2015 public debate included 17 articles, today has 47 articles and undoubtedly a public debate is needed. We have always warned in this consideration that public institutions should be transformed in accordance with EU law, according to public economic services. That's a cautionary tale. But, dear fellows, you're deaf to the profession. That's too bad. And you will allow our public health institutions to continue to cause high losses and to continue to be unique in their design as compared to the European acquis. The fact is that, on the basis of such a bill, waiting lines will be extended to make it less accessible to a rural doctor. The fact is that all of this will cause young doctors to go abroad, and not just young people, including others, and the fact is that in this way, I will say domestically, doctors or employees in public health institutions will be able to continue to work and privatize in their own pockets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-30-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u5	Mr Branko Zorman will give an explanation of the vote on behalf of the modern centre Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-30-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. We will, of course, support the Government's proposal for the Health Action Act within the Modern Centre Party Group because it regulates an area that has so far not been well regulated, but has not been regulated by the granting of concessions in a transparent way as it will be in the future. At the same time, this law, including this law, not only protects public health, publicly accessible health care for all citizens under the same rules, solidarity, accessibility, quality, and, of course, we will support this law. The lies relating to this law that this law will prolong waiting times for people to be deprived of health care are, of course, not true.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-30-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u7	An explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats will be sent by Mr Jernej Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-30-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u8	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Finally, we said in New Slovenia, when this law came, we will have one part of the health reform on the table, we will be able to open a wide debate on what the Slovenian health system needs, but unfortunately this was not the case and in fact this Health Act has two key elements that are contrary to what we would like in Slovenia and what we would need in Slovenia. First thing, the law refuses to compete. Competitiveness that would certainly be needed to improve the health system. And secondly, what is most painful is the marriage is in conflict with or against young doctors. Why? Because it defines the role of a health care provider only after five years of obtaining a license from that young doctor. What are we gonna do about it? What are we gonna do? We'll lose the most productive. And we can afford this in Slovenia? Can you limit how much someone who is capable of working in the afternoon or in their spare time, anyhow, and limit it to eight hours a week, allow us to lose this top-notch specialist from state health? On this occasion, I would like to point out that concessions are part of public health and let us not play witch hunts against concessionaires and private individuals, because concessionaires and private individuals, including private individuals, are part of our public health network. So in Nova Slovenija we will also vote against this because the regulation of concessions is also regulated on the wrong basis and the law does not improve our public health.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-30-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u9	We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 23. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Health Committee as a working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 46th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Recommendation on Slovenian Health. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a recommendation on the issue of Slovenian health is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 51 votes against 22. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 22.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision and therefore the procedure for the consideration of the proposal has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 23rd item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Pension and Disability Insurance Act is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 51. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 51.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 13th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Social Protection in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, the amendment could not be tabled at the assembly meeting, so we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 32. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 32.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on amendments to the Rail Safety Act by emergency procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending the Railway Safety Act is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 73 votes against none. [[The vote was 73.]] [[Nobody.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision, and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 14th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Roma Community in the Republic of Slovenia under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Roma Community in the Republic of Slovenia is not suitable for further consideration. An explanation of vote on behalf of the Joint Left Group will be given by Matjaž Hanžek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-30-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u10	Thank you very much, President! The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia states that in Slovenia we have a special law on the Roma community which prescribes what we must do in these cases. It took more than ten years for Slovenia to adopt the law in 2007, which was not the best, but was certainly good because it was made quickly and because Slovenia had received the law on the Roma. From then on, what is missing in this law, what needs to be changed, what needs to be added, because, of course, a lot has changed in this area in ten years. Two years ago, 2015 is said to be the case, this National Assembly, together with us, rejected a proposal for a new law on the Roma community. At that time, we believed the government would do so in the following year, as it said last year, a new marriage. I think it would be better if we didn't believe her than we should normally believe her; and I suggest, then we should suggest that that law be supplemented by the government. It was an opportunity, but we believed that the government would do it in one year. Of course, the government did not do so in 2016, as promised. Therefore, in the United Left together with many Roma, many experts have drawn up a new proposal for a law that addresses the most critical points that need to be regulated in this area. We've talked to government representatives, too. We didn't get any further opinions. They agreed mainly that we were addressing the right points, but we didn't get any solutions. Now the government has promised to make a better, wonderful marriage for the next election. I'm an optimist, and I believe her as a realist, and I don't believe her. We're gonna look under her fingernails. In the United Left, of course, we will vote against this proposal, saying that we are still proposing that our law go forward in the parliamentary debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-30-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u11	We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present and 71.5 votes against. [[The vote was 71.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision, and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda, which is the question of Members and Members. Review of the proposals for proposals by Members and Members for a debate on the replies of the President of the Government, Ministers and Ministers of 26. 5. 2017 is published on the e-club. In line with the proposal by Mr Ljub Žnidar, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to Mr Ljub Žnidar's question on the second track project. Mr Daniel Krivec will explain to the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-30-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to my friends and friends! I propose that you support the proposal to address the issue of the second indent of this National Assembly. The President of the Government has given some answers to the question raised by his colleague, Ljub Žnidar, which have further deepened doubts that the second track through this legal solution that we have on the table is possible to build, both in the price framework proposed and in the time frame set out in this law. According to its replies, the mile of the track will cost €27 million times the length of the track, and it has added to the embarrassment and dilemma, probably mainly with colleagues from the coalition. Because in the opposition we have long known that we do not really need this law to build such a short section of infrastructure in the Republic of Slovenia. According to past practices, when we built both the infrastructure on the highway cross and the infrastructure and the modernisation in the railway area, we know that such projects are not being tried or built in such a unique way. Practice in Europe shows that there are no such unique receptions. We have already had some discussions on this subject. And our colleagues in the coalition made it clear in the debate that this is some of the refugees that the ministry has reminded of, probably with the appropriate support of the people who help this coalition to prepare the receptions, which will also mean an additional outflow of money into private pockets in the long run. If this is to be avoided, it is also one of the important facts or steps that we need to take a closer look at all the frameworks that this investment brings. We know that even the technical frameworks are not appropriate, we know that the financial structure is not regulated, we know that there is virtually no spirit or hearing about the behind countries. We do not get the answers to the questions that we are asking at the home labour force in the National Assembly, and it is therefore right to support this debate, so that before the referendum comes, we can all learn what the facts are and what an alternative is to the second track that I believe we all hope and work towards building up sooner or later.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-30-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u13	Mr Igor Zorčič will explain the vote on behalf of the Group of the Modern Centre Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-30-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u14	Mr President, thank you for saying so. We will not accept this proposal. In short, we estimate that all relevant questions have been answered in relation to this second track issue. As far as these estimates are concerned about the value of one kilometre of the railway line or the construction of the tunnel, it is more than obvious that colleagues from the SDS party want to be misled again, thus multiplying the price of 27 million by 27 kilometers. Although the estimate is that this price is 27 million per km, it is real, they forgot to say that it is not only 20 km of tunnels, that it is still service tunnels, in short, that it is not the only cost of building this second track. However, in all this debate, given that signatures for the referendum are being collected, I think it is important to highlight some of the words that my colleague Tanko said the last time, so that instead of the second track, they can meet all of the NATO standards. And we in the Modern Centre Party consider that, of course, this is also an important factor, but we are still in the position of this law that we need this second track and that we do not need another Patrie. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-30-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u15	Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? On your own? Then I'm asking for an application because I've seen at least three. Mr Bojan Podkoršek will give an explanation of the vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-30-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u16	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues. I myself will support my colleague Žnidar's proposal to include this in the meeting of the National Assembly – a second track item that has been bothering us for several months. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we all depend on the future of Slovenia, whether we sit in the National Assembly in five years or not. I listen to the President of the Government very carefully many times, but most of the time I don't understand what he means to tell us. But I certainly understood him when he answered his colleague Žnidar's question about the second track. And, of course, it is now time to report to the National Assembly that this is not true, as the President of the Government said, he also said that he has arguments and that he has papers forged with all the professional services, that the mile of the second track is EUR 27 million. [[…]] And when you multiply it by 27 kilometers, I don't think you need to be a good mathematician to get the amount. With this reply, I am sure that he has completely deepened all the doubts and concerns that we had in the Slovenian Democratic Party, which Slovenians and Slovenians have about this project, and I will therefore support this proposal to hold a debate in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-30-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u17	Mr Zvonko Lah will explain his own voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-30-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u18	I will also support this proposal to open the debate on the second track in the National Assembly. In fact, in my opinion, the President of the Government answered very strange questions. Apparently someone is deceiving him because his claims are not true, and the day after he declared that this is one of the most transparent projects in Slovenia This is too much, so I support the opening of the debate. I also support the collection of signatures for the referendum because this does not stop the second track. We need a second track, just not the kind the government wants to build for that kind of money. We need a second track, two tracks at a time with half the price like this, and no back-stabbing countries and foreign investors. Because no country would go in such a way as to build as important infrastructure as we do, because I think that we or some of us just want to cover up a foreign country so that in the future someone can't break this contract because an interstate treaty would be concluded. It's not about anything else. At such a price, we could build two tracks and part of the third development axis on the north and south. I hope that Parliament will monitor the progress of this project in which the Government can build without law without a state-owned enterprise of 2TKK. I will therefore support a thorough discussion of this project in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-30-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u19	Mr Jože Tanko will explain his own voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-30-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that. I myself will support the request for a debate on the response of the Prime Minister to the question put by his colleague Žnidar. The President of the Government made it clear that the real price of this project is EUR 729 million, amounting to 27 per square mile [27 km] per kilometre. What is stipulated by law is between twice and three times that. For that minimum price, which is twice as high by law, we can build at least 100 schools, at least 100 kindergartens, at least 100 sports halls and at least the next term we meet all NATO standards. But if you go to the option of using or making up a refund of 40 million, that's times three. To support the project, which prescribs that the margin, for those who will participate in this project, is double or triple, is a madness that can only be afforded by someone who will say goodbye after the next elections. Responsible policy, but responsible Members, we have to vote against such a variant because this law has written down the systemic, legal places of what we should use for other purposes. If you can afford such luxury in the government coalition, help God, it will be suffered by the citizens and you will have to give up all of these things that I have told you before. In short, if you do not support the debate, it is a sign that you support corruption at the highest level. I now hope that you will not change the Constitution in any other way to secure such acquisitions of this mandate. In short, the horror you have prepared with this law, and so will I. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-30-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u21	Is there any other explanation? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 44. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal by Mr Trcko, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to the question by Dr Franc Trčko on the preparation of the new Law on Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 49. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal of Mrs Jelka Godec, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister of Public Administration Boris Koprivnik, to Mrs Jelka Godec's question on common public health procurement. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 48. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Mate T. Vatovec, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Mr Zdravko Pocovalska, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, to the question of Mr Mate T. Vatovec, on procurement and setting up a barrier at the national border. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 48. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Bojan Podkrodška, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petr Gasperšič, to Mr Bojan Podkorška's question on the granting of licences to motorists coming from foreign countries. Mr Bojan Podkoršek will explain the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-30-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u22	Madam President, once again, thank you for your word. I am asking the Minister about licensing and I am proposing to the National Assembly that we have a thorough discussion on this subject. We have many carriers in the Republic of Slovenia that carry out their activities for 10, 20, 30 years, 40 years, even many who are already giving their businesses to their children to lead them on. Over the last two years, in the Republic of Slovenia, postal mailboxes have been opened at one title for licensing, and this has opened over 500 foreign companies coming from the former Yugoslavia, Bosnia, Montenegro, Serbia in the last two years. And of course, all these entrepreneurs are very competitive with our carriers, who work fairly, respect labour law and respect social legislation. Therefore, honourable Members, I propose that you support this proposal, in particular to carry out a thorough analysis of these companies. And let me say that the data shows that those people who work in the government are also allowed to do that. At one address, there are 10, 15, 20 more open companies, which, of course, allow these unscrupulous transactions to be done by foreign citizens and, of course, burden our citizens and citizens who work fairly and responsibly in this area. Therefore, once again, I call upon all of you to support this proposal. But let me also lay down on your soul that if we don't protect our citizens, something bad will happen to us in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-30-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u23	We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 45. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Kordiš, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Dr Anja Kopač Dark to the question of Mr Miha Kordiš in relation to the low cash social assistance. An explanation of vote on behalf of the Joint Left Group will be given by Miha Kordiš.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-30-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, chairman. I asked Minister Anji Kopač Dark a question regarding the calculation of the cost of living, but she did not answer that question. Instead, she preferred to embark on an arrogant argument. And it's not the minister's arrogance problem, it's the net consequences that manco has in calculating the cost of living brings with it. This is the basis for the calculation of the amount of monetary social assistance and the security allowance, in short, of social transfers that enable the bare physical survival. Finally, these costs of living were calculated in 2009, although we have a law stipulating that they should be calculated every five years, and if there is a 20% deviation from the previous conversion, money social assistance, a protection allowance should be redefined and, of course, in today's context, this means that these social transfers are being raised. This has not happened since 2009. Moreover, in the Social Agreement, the Government had little to do with the manoeuvres, where it wrote down that it would take care of this calculation in 2016 and there was nothing to do with it. The reason why nothing moves here is, of course, clear. The government and the Ministry of Labour, not to say the Ministry of Employers, saves the poor again. In line with the social policy of the Social Democrats, which they have been leading in the last decade: to leave people at or even below the limits of physical survival in order to expose them to the uncompromising terror of the labour market and are forced to accept any work, no matter how exploitative and how low it is. If we raised the calculation of the bare physical survival, if we raised the cash social assistance, the security allowance and so on, working people, Slovenian citizens and citizens would be protected against the most brutal exploitation practices, because the work paid under Bulgarian tariffs could be slightly rejected. And that would be the best social measure, as in one move, we would start to solve poverty and prevent the illegal business practices of Al Marof Trade. Unfortunately, this is not on the horizon at the same time that we have 300,000 people in this country under the threshold of poverty risk, and therefore in the United Left we request a debate on the Minister's response to this National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-30-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u25	We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 48. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Luka Mesec, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance of Mags. Matey Vraničar Erman on the question of the month Luke concerning the postponement of the privatisation of NLB, d.d. An explanation of the vote on behalf of the Joint Left Group will be given by Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-30-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. We have invested €1.55 billion in NLB only through the last recapitalisation. According to the Dnevnik newspaper, the country is expected to sell this bank for 650 million euros. This means that we will make about a third of the money invested, and that is why I asked Minister Vraničar Erman under A: Why does the government not negotiate in Europe, following the example of Portugal and Italy, to postpone privatisation or to break the commitment? Or B: Why does the government not take advantage of the space already permitted by the existing European commitment? This commitment states whether Slovenia sells the bank or sells its subsidiaries in the Balkans. And since it is the largest Slovenian commercial bank on which the development of the local economy depends, and this bank is largely responding to the question of where we will invest and what our development model will be, it would be more reasonable to sell a branch in the Balkans if the government is not able to agree otherwise in Brussels. Minister Vraničar Erman has not answered any of these questions, so I suggest that we discuss its answers in the National Assembly in the light of yesterday's events at SDH and the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-30-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u27	We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 45. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I'm closing this agenda item. We continue with the 12th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Sport Bill in the context of the regular procedure. On Wednesday, 24 May 2017, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law, the assembly, on a proposal from the Government as the proposer of the draft law, decided that, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the third reading of the draft law would be carried out at this meeting. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted at the second-reading meeting of the home working body or the National Assembly would make the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. An explanation of vote on behalf of the Joint Left Group will be given by Miha Kordiš.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-30-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, chairman. In the United Left, we will vote against the government's law on sport. It is true that it addresses some of the problems that have arisen in the sports sector, but then we reach Articles 59 and 60. What's the point of these two articles? They repeal the Labour Relations Act for the whole area of sport. And here we are not just talking about athletes, we are also talking about sports workers, in this whole big segment of sports proletariat, which we very rarely see on television. That's a very serious problem. Article 59, however, begins with the Act on Working Relations, but then begins to list exceptions. [[…]] And in this way, it completely abolishes the labour market protection of the sport proletariat and allows the unlimited exploitation of employers in this area. Furthermore, Article 60 allows the chain of temporary contracts for a period of ten years. Ten years, totally legal. The Labour Relations Act, for example, limits such chaining and the extension of temporary contracts to a period of two years. What all this means is that we have a very dangerous precedent not only for the sports industry, but for regulating the whole area of work in this country. What helps us in the Labour Relations Act, where workers' representatives negotiate and vote for workers' rights, if each time the Government and every time Parliament can just go through the back door through sectoral laws. Therefore, in the United Left, we strongly oppose this Law on Sport and we are outraged that he even saw the parliamentary procedure. However, I call on colleagues and colleagues from the coalition parliamentary groups to vote against this law for the last time and thus vote against the brutal general predation within the sports sector. Athletics are also workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-30-SDZ7-Redna-30.ana.u29	We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 40 votes in favour, 14 votes in favour. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I'm informing you that the 97th meeting of the College will begin in 15 minutes in Room 217, at 11:00 and 5 minutes. I'm adjourning the 30th meeting of the National Assembly.
