ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 36th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Andrej Šircelj, Iva Dimic from 16:00 on, Simona Kustec Lipicer from 17 till 20:00, Vesna Vervega from 15:00, Andreja Potočnik from 16:00 on, Alenka Bratušek, Jože Tanko from 16:00 on, Franc Trček, Branko Zorman, Peter Wilfan, Uroš Prikl, Zvonko Lah from 14:00 on, Matjaž Hanžek until 13:00, Tomaž Gantar from 17.30 on, Miha Kordiš until 12 noon, Nada Brinovšek, and I will be absent from 17.30 to 19.30 on my own. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, this is on the eve of a bill amending the Health Security and Health Insurance Act. The bill is to be considered by the National Assembly — would we be at peace in the hall?Oh, my God! — submitted by a group of 6 Members and Members with a first-signed mag. Matthew Tonin. Procedurally, Violeta Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u2	Dear President, I ask you to ensure peace in the hall, because we are like a fair and not in the National Assembly. Let the Members sit down, we come to work and listen to what we have to say. We are dealing with a very difficult subject that has a profound impact on the lives of citizens, and we must not make a fool out of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u3	First of all, I agree with peace in the Chamber, on the other hand, I point out that we are officials and that the use of working conditions in connection with us is not the most appropriate concept. But independently, I'd really like to ask for some serious work. With regard to this bill, the Health Committee proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the chairman of the committee, Mr Tomaž Gantar, to further explain the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u4	Thank you very much, President. Good morning to all, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Ministry! At its 28th meeting, the Health Committee considered the draft law amending the Health and Health Insurance Act submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by a group of Members and Members with a first-signed magi. Matthew Tonin. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the draft law should be dealt with in a simplified manner. Members and members of the Committee received material, which was also published on the website of the National Assembly. The amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 1 was tabled within the time limit. Mr Jožef Horvat gave an additional explanation on behalf of the applicant. He pointed out that the aim of the proposal was to change the beginning of the treatment for illness or injury. After the current legal regime, compensation is paid to the contractor for 30 working days, which practically means 40 calendar days. Because of the existence of a minimum, the entrepreneur himself shortens the hospital's absence and starts doing business, even though he's not yet healthy. Since in the absence of a hospital, an entrepreneur cannot generate income, he should pay contributions from a reduced base. During the hospital absence of an entrepreneur, the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance should take over the burden substantially earlier, so the applicants propose after 15 working days. The proposed amendment thus reduces the period when the employer pays the remuneration from his own resources in cases where the worker is unable to work because of his or her illness or injury, which is not related to his or her work, and thus eliminates the root cause of many problems for Slovenian craftsmen and entrepreneurs. The opinion was delivered by the Government or State Secretary Mrs Jožica Maucec Zakotnik. It stressed that the Government does not support the proposed change in the start-up of the compensation due to the temporary incapacity to work under the ZZS from the current 31st day to the 16th day. The change must be the result of constructive social dialogue and the consensus reached by the social partners, which does not include the amendment tabled. Such issues need to be addressed systematically and the consequences of economic, social and financial sustainability must be examined. The opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service was presented by Mag. Sonja Bien Karlovšek. It noted that the Act on Working Relationships in Article 241, paragraph 2, provided that the second indent of Article 29, paragraph 1, of the Health and Health Insurance Act, as from the date of the application of this Act, did not apply to the right to compensation for wages in cases of incapacity of workers to work for sickness or injury not related to work. The adoption of the novel would not achieve the desired legal effect and could be disputed in terms of legal certainty. The position was also expressed by representatives of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance, which, according to the financial resources available, do not support the law's institution, and the Professional Association of Health and Granny Care Providers, which supports the proposal of the law in view of the problems encountered. The panellist thanked all those who supported the proposal. Given that presentationism, which means presence in the workplace despite illness and poor feeling, is the biggest problem for self-employed people, the Government expects faster steps in the direction of solving this problem. In this regard, the Ministry of Health or the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia should prepare an assessment and report on how high the costs of presentation are. Following the discussion, the Committee, pursuant to Article 128(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, adopted the following decision: Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u5	I give the floor to the representative of the Magi candidates for the opening presentation of the position on the proposal of the parent working body. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u6	Dear Members and Members, good morning! December is the month of seasonal colds and other diseases, and if we try to live in a self-employed citizen, in a citizen who acts in the form of an espionage that you do with your work, with your hard work to serve bread and thus take care of your family, let us try to enjoy such an individual – what happens if this individual gets sick? [[...]] He and his family are suddenly in terrible troubles and problems because the whole family is dependent on his earnings. That is why we are experiencing, and this is a problem that is detected in the professional public, that many self - employed people today do not even hope to get properly over the disease, they do not hope to go to the hospital, because this means that they are without a source of income to support their family. As a result, they often work sick and then develop into even worse diseases, whose treatment takes longer and also the cost of treatment is higher. That is why Nova Slovenija has proposed two different laws, the Labour Relations Act and the Health and Health Insurance Act, which we are dealing with today, which – both of which – legally – are amending the current rules of the hospital. Today, the hospital is arranged in such a way that the employer or self - employed person takes over the cost of sickness or absence due to injury to 30 working days, which is an extremely long time. The proposal from New Slovenia is to reduce these 30 days to 15 working days. In practice, this would mean that for diseases that last up to 15 working days, this would be 3 weeks if we subtracted Saturdays and weeks from them, so that the employer would still be responsible for this period and solidarity would be included from here, namely the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia. The law we are proposing brings more solidarity to the hospital's regulation, and above all it brings greater equality before the law. Last but not least, two citizens who can pay the same contribution to health care can be in a significantly different relationship if one is employed by the employer and the other is self-employed. Finally, this law of ours also means in some way the fulfilment of the requirements of Slovenian craft and entrepreneurship. This is an event organised by the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia for a number of years where you are present by a number of Members, where the President of the Government and other ministers have also been present many times, and this more appropriate arrangement of patients is one of their basic requirements. Today, by concrete actions, this is your vote, you can prove that in practice you also support the requirements of Slovenian craftsmanship and entrepreneurship, not just in words. Let me say one more thing very concretely, this proposal does not in any way make the situation of workers worse. Nothing changes for the workers, they'll get the hospital just like before. Because some spins were spinning in public to suggest we cut back on getting sick and stuff like that. Absolutely not, we're just talking about who's paying the hospital and who's taking the cost of the hospital. Our suggestion is that the hospital is no longer 30 days on the employer's shoulders, but 15 days, while the worker remains unchanged. In New Slovenia, we do not agree with this either, nor do I, as a proponent, not that the law is inappropriate for further discussion, so I expect Parliament to reject this decision today and that this law will continue its path.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u7	I give the floor to the representative of the Government to the State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, Dr. Ana Medved.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u8	Good morning! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia notes from the current 31st day on 16th day that this is a systemic issue with regard to the proposed change in the start of the remuneration due to temporary incapacity to work at the burden of the Health Insurance Institute. A short period of payment of the remuneration to the employer, to the self-employed person or to the associate would mean an extension of that right to the burden of compulsory health insurance. In any event, the proposed amendment would result in a reduction of other compulsory health insurance rights. In view of the limited means of compulsory health insurance, this would consequently mean that health services should be substantially reduced, either their scope or their type, such as the suspension of the introduction of new health services or treatment methods, new medicines, new medical devices. In addition, it should be pointed out that the obligation of employers to pay cash compensation for temporary incapacity to work is already limited as money is also paid from compulsory health insurance funds in cases precisely provided for in Article 137 of the Labour Relations Act. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the proposed change, as it believes that such a change must be the result of constructive social dialogue and the broadest agreement reached by all social partners. In addition, it is necessary to take a systematic approach to such issues and to examine the issue both in terms of the consequences for the economy and in terms of social justice and to verify the financial sustainability of the proposed change. Given the significant increase in the financial resources allocated to the Slovenian Health Insurance Institute in recent years to pay compensation for the absence of work due to illness, it is expected that the impact on the health treasury of the proposed change will be much greater. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u9	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jernej Vrtovec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u10	Good day to you all! In New Slovenia we simply want to improve the quality of life of individuals and their families. As we strive for an open economy based, for the first time, on justice, for the second time, on freedom and for the third time, on the safety of all, we have again listened in the New Slovenia Group to entrepreneurs and craftsmen who for many years have been alerting us to the problem of their work, i.e. entrepreneurs within the hospital. Therefore, in addition to today's amendment to the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance, we have tabled in the parliamentary procedure a proposal to amend the Labour Relations Act, which we have discussed at the previous meeting. With the proposed amendment, we reduce the period when the employer pays compensation from his own resources in cases where the worker is unable to work because of his illness or injury, which is not related to work. And what is the key to this marriage? It is crucial that the beginning of receiving the compensation during the retention period covered by the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance is amended from the 31st working day from work to the 16th working day. 30 working days in practice means, ladies and gentlemen, as much as 40 calendar days, which is in fact unacceptable for an independent entrepreneur and also financially threatening. As already mentioned, in a difficult situation, there are mainly independent entrepreneurs, including self-employed, who, due to the current regime, often reduce the hospital's absence and start work when they have not fully recovered, especially for those independent entrepreneurs who do not have employees. And also, someone gets hurt outside of work in sports, recreation, anywhere else, tell me where the reason is for the employer to pay for his sick leave. Why is the employer guilty? Why wouldn't that be the burden of the state? Why does the employer have to cover 40 calendar days? It's not his fault this worker got hurt out of work. If we want a fair country, the first thing is that the country is covering at least from the 15th working day ahead its hospital absence to shorten that time. In our view, the Department of Health Insurance, in the time of the hospital stock of the entrepreneur, must replace or take over the burden substantially earlier. We propose 15 working days, i.e. 16 working days. It is fundamental solidarity towards people who are generators of the budget revenues and development of Slovenia. And once again, this is not some big story of big employers, multinationals, capitalists you will be speaking on the left side of the hall, it is mainly about self-employed people who are espionage themselves, who work and contribute positively to the economic activities of countries too, because they can also lose their jobs. And because they do not receive compensation from the country in due time, the sick also go back to their jobs and carry out sick, difficult professions. Let us be understanding of these people. Finally, our salaries in the National Assembly depend in particular on the work of these people, including the wages of the Government. These are the generators of our pay system and positive economic activities. It is imperative to ensure that this element of justice in this country is returned at least to those same people at the same time of economic growth. I have not lost hope in the National Assembly so that we do not change our position today and accompany this law into further procedure. At the same time, I certainly promise you, Members and Members, as well as all independent entrepreneurs and employers who now have an unfair arrangement, that in New Slovenia we will continue to propose this same law in the coming months, as in our power, as the voice of the political economy, because it is good because it means that at least something is given to where positive economic growth comes from.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u11	The word is given by the Left Group, Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! We oppose the proposed law because it tries to transfer EUR 60 million of diseases currently paid by employers to a health treasury, i.e. to the entire population of Slovenia. Under the current regime, the employer should pay sickly for the first 30 days of the disease, after which he would pay it only for the first 15 days and the difference, which is €60 million per year, should cover the Slovenian Health Insurance Institute, which already has insufficient resources to provide normal health care to all. If the proposal had been adopted by NSI, it would have put healthcare at risk and the self-employed would not have been much better. The duration and the amount of hospital compensation would not change, all that would change would be for employers to charge 60 million euros of their expenses on the shoulders of all of us who pay health insurance contributions. This is about the interesting law behind which the Chamber of Commerce and Industry stands. It is their interest that labour costs are transferred to all of us as much as possible and thus increase the profits of economic operators. The Socialists, of course, object to this. We demand that labour costs be borne by those who live on the work of others, i.e. capital holders. After the restoration of capitalism in Slovenia, capitalists have already passed on a large part of the labour costs to the country and society. The minimum wage is €600 net, with which a single worker can not normally live, let alone the entire family. The cost of maintaining the family is therefore taken over instead of the capital by the State which pays children's allowances and grants to families for kindergarten. We will spend €560 million on family transfers this year. And as if all of this is not enough, I would like the NSI to put an additional EUR 60 million on us now. Of course we don't agree to that. We hear several times that companies would use savings to create jobs. Of course it doesn't. Let us recall that the first Janša government has radically reduced the corporate income tax and completely abolished the salary tax — and what has it achieved? This significantly reduced the country's reserves during the crisis, but did not prevent record unemployment. Employment does not depend on taxes and their exemptions, but exclusively on economic circumstances and development policies. If the low-tax policy were to work, then the employment rate would be the highest in Bosnia or Bulgaria, and we know that this is not the case and that this does not work. And, of course, we know that Bosnia and Bulgaria are the countries from which the population is most displaced because of poverty and unemployment. Finally, let me draw your attention to the problem of espionage. In Slovenia, more and more workers are being forced by employers to open espies. These penitentiaries do not have a contract of employment, so that the employer is not obliged to pay the sick. That is why, in September, the socialists tabled a proposal for a law whereby the institution would pay the hospital from 4 days of disease to one-person espionage. The measure would cost only a circus of EUR 7 million and would be implemented in 2019. At that time, the institution was supposed to have additional income from the abolition of supplementary insurance, so that 7 million euros would not be known for health services. For us, this is the only acceptable solution for holiday workers and self-employed people in general. Everything else is an attempt to transfer more capital costs to an already poor social treasury and budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u13	The text shall be given by the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, Mrs Irena Grošelj Kosnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u14	All in attendance, all in attendance! The Law on Health Care and Health Insurance, which we are considering today, constitutes one of two laws which provides for a reduction in the period when the employer pays compensation in cases where the worker is unable to work because of his illness or injury, which is not related to work. At the 35th regular meeting of the National Assembly in November, we have already discussed the amendment to the Labour Relations Act, which also envisaged a reduction in this period. The proposed amendment interferes with the scope of the Office of Health Insurance and therefore representatives of the institution were also invited to attend the meeting of the home working body. They note that the number of hospital absences per year is higher, both for less than 30 days and for those who last more than 30 days, and for the burden of the institution. As a result, the share allocated by the institution to the compensation for the disease stock has increased by 4 percentage points in recent years. As with the amendment to the Labour Relations Act, we were asked by Members of the SMC that, by reducing the period of payment of monetary compensation by the employer, the rights of health services from compulsory health insurance could be reduced. Following the proposed amendment, the Health Insurance Office should take over the payment burden substantially earlier. The situation in the health treasury, we know, is not enough, and the first step is to ensure the financial sustainability of the health treasury. It is also important to note that the state of claims for compulsory health insurance contributions at the end of 2016 was almost 300 million, and also that revenue from contributions represented 98 % of the total revenue of the institution. The reduction in the period of remuneration paid by the employer could therefore result in either the reduction of health services, which are the right to compulsory health insurance, or higher contributions to compulsory health insurance. We can't agree with that. We are aware that such problems faced by entrepreneurs and craftsmen need to be addressed, but we stress that this needs to be addressed in an appropriate way and that measures should be taken to help ensure the financial sustainability of the healthcare sector. Members of the Modern Centre Party have also repeatedly stressed that changes in legislation concerning workers and employers should be addressed in the framework of a constructive social dialogue that represents an important value in our society. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we will therefore vote in favour of the conclusion that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u15	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, you are most welcome! The main purpose of the amendments to the Health and Health Insurance Act is to shorten the period during which the employer pays compensation from his own resources to the worker for periods of detention or, as the hospital says, for a disease or injury not related to work. The current legislation provides that the employer shall pay the remuneration from his own resources for the period of detention of the worker for diseases and injuries other than work, up to 30 working days, and the applicant has proposed that the cost of the hospital pass from 16 days of absence to the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia. Of course, there is no need to stress that the aim of these changes is to relieve craftsmen and self-employed financial burdens. This amendment of the law would also ensure an equal position for them to enjoy the right to hospital leave and health insurance. For many years, representatives of crafts and entrepreneurship have been alerting the problem, and many times, unfortunately, the social partners have also addressed the issue. Often, self - employed craftsmen find themselves in a difficult situation, for their survival depends directly on their work activity, making it difficult for them to afford a longer absence from work, rather than to benefit from care for their family members. All of this, of course, can lead to more serious illness, resulting in an increase in the cost of health services. In its opinion on this proposal, the Government notes that this is a systemic issue. In view of the increase in the level of resources charged with compulsory health insurance, this would consequently mean that health services should be substantially reduced, the Government notes. It also states that such issues must be systematically approached. We already know the government's excuses. If the proposal does not come from their side and there is no interest in listening to small people too, then the excuses for systemic changes will not be available, for there is clearly no time to do so. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we support the amendment of the law, so we will vote against the conclusion that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u17	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Say good-bye to everyone again! We have yet another proposal for the amendment to the Health and Health Insurance Act, which seeks this time to amend the hospital compensation regime in the sense of changing the beginning of the sickness or injury benefit, which is payable under the applicable legislation to the employer until the current 31st day of retention from work. The novelty's proposal is that the Slovenian Institute for Health Insurance should assume the burden of the hospital's self-employed stock after 15 working days. In the Desus Group, we can understand the objective of partially depriving the economy of the financial burden due to the disease stock, in particular allowing craftsmen, self-employed people a better position in the enjoyment of health insurance rights, but we cannot accept the fact that this proposal further reduces the available resources for health care and the provision of health services, to which we are already waiting too long due to the lack of funds today. The financial implications of the healthcare bill proposal are estimated at around €50 million, which is totally unacceptable in the current lack of health money for the Desus Group. The short period of payment of the hospital allowance to the burden of the employer or self-employed person would mean an extension of this right to compulsory health insurance, while at the same time coming from the Health Insurance Office has long warned that the costs of covering the absence of the hospital are increasing, which is an additional heavy burden for the health department. In our Group, we estimate that this problem should also be addressed through a systematic approach, with a completely new Health and Health Insurance Act, which the competent Ministry of Health has been predicting for a long time and which would provide for both the sustainability of health care financing and adequate funding of the hospital stock, which is indeed a major problem in the long term. We are aware of the fact that self-employed, craftsmen and entrepreneurs often work during illness, as absences are difficult to afford, but there are also increasing numbers of employees who, for various reasons, do not hope to stay at home during illness. The issue requires a thorough professional and public debate and dialogue between the social partners. In the field of patient stocks, there are therefore two problems, one is the increase in the use of stocks and long-term hospital absences, and the other is the increase in presentationism, which is more common in self-employed people. It is clear that presentation can also bring an additional burden on the health treasury in the long term. In the Desus Group, we believe that it is necessary to prepare a completely new law on health care and health insurance, while this amendment would only cause additional problems within the already funded health system. This is a problem that requires thorough reflection and broad debate, but not in the way proposed by the amendment of the law. In the Desus Group, we will therefore support the proposal to conclude that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u19	The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, a magi for her. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! We have a new Law on Health Care and Health Insurance, which comes from another package submitted by the New Slovenia Group of Christian Democrats. Since the law is identical in content with the amendment of the Labour Relations Act, we will repeat our position. The main purpose of the bill is to shorten the period during which the employer pays the remuneration from his own resources for the period of retention of workers from work due to hospital reasons or non-working injuries, from 31 to 16 days. In this way, the proposers want to relieve the economy of part-time financial burdens and ensure that tradesmen and self-employed people enjoy an equal position in the enjoyment of the right to hospital absence. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia opposes the proposal of the law because it considers that it is a systemic issue and that the problem should be addressed more systematically. Any change must be the result of constructive dialogue and the broadest consensus reached by the social partners. As we have already said many times in the past, we are repeating today, although the proposal for a law does not have our support, we want and I must point out that this issue, which is addressed by the proponents, will need to be addressed. We agree that the current system of remuneration for working-time detention for certain groups poses a serious problem, but as we are different people, so are the specific situations in which we are. This is also why not all go to the same basket, because there are many different groups in this segment that cannot be equated due to the specificity of work and status. This is precisely why they should be addressed in a fair manner by addressing problems in groups of comparable cases. Social Democrats are convinced that the social dialogue through which an agreement must be reached is necessary, as it is social dialogue that is an important nuance that will allow the agreements to be respected. Social dialogue alone is a marriage to put the issue of how to change the system, but at the same time a key protection of workers' rights, at the same time, in the process of seeking solutions. We will support the decision proposed by the mother labour body that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u21	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration, we will decide today, in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 28th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I'm breaking up the 2nd item of the agenda. We're moving to 3. At the end of the day, this is to the contrary the proposal of the Act amending and supplementing the Act on Medical Activity in the form of an end-of-life procedure. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of 45 Members and Members with a first-signed magi. Bojan Krajance. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the Magi applicants. Bojan Krajnc.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Article 121 of the current Act on Pharmaceutical Activities lays down preliminary provisions or deadlines for compliance with Article 26 of the Act and states that operators of a pharmacy activity which do not comply with the conditions of Article 26 shall comply with the provisions of this Article at the latest within one year of the entry into force of the Act. We passed an existing law almost one year ago on 15 December, published in the Official Journal on 28 December, and sets a one-year deadline to expire on 27 January 2018, which is a good month. Today's Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Act on Pharmaceutical Activities extends this period by approximately two additional years, which is until 31 December 2019. As explained in the explanation of the articles, Article 121, in conjunction with Article 26, indirectly directs the sale of capital investments if we are looking at the conditions set out in Article 26(2), or the sale of shares or shares in capital or other investments, if we are looking at Article 26(3), it is therefore necessary to ensure that the operators of the pharmacy business are able to carry out the sales procedures under conditions which will not lead to the sale under duress. This means, however, that they must have a transitional period sufficiently long to sell or adapt or align their business with Article 26. For forced sales could mean that a pharmacy operator would be able to recover a relatively lower purchase than it would have if it had more time at its disposal, as the potential buyer knows that a pharmacy operator is obliged to sell a relatively short marriage period. At this point, I reiterate that we do not change the conditions of Article 26 of the Law, which speaks of so-called vertical connections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u23	The draft law was treated by the Health Committee as a working mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u24	Thank you so much for saying that. At its 37th emergency meeting, the Health Committee considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Medical Activities, submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by a group of Members and Members with a first-signed mag. Bojan Krajance. Members and members of the Committee received a proposal for a law, an opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and an opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia as material for the meeting published on the website of the National Assembly. On behalf of the applicant, the additional explanation was submitted by mag. Bojan Krajnc pointed out that the proposal for a law prolongs the period within which pharmacists have to comply with Article 26 of the Pharmaceutical Act. The purpose of the proposal is to extend the adjustment period to 31. 12. 2019. In this way, it is maintained that the arrangements adopted stipulating that operators of a pharmacy activity shall not directly or indirectly through connected persons establish, direct or supervise legal persons engaged in the industrial production of medicinal products, medical devices and other products to support and maintain the treatment and maintenance of the health or activity of traffic in bulk with medicinal products and medical devices, or through capital investments or otherwise acquire or control the management or management of such legal persons. This allows operators to adjust their business to this arrangement within a reasonable period of time. In the debate, the members of the Committee supported the decision to extend the deadline. Due to all the status changes to be made by the pharmacy operators under the applicable law, the time limit set and expired in January 2018 was significantly too short. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the proposal together and adopted them. Since no amendments were adopted to the draft law on the home working body, the Committee on Health of the National Assembly proposes that the proposed Act amending and supplementing the Act on Pharmaceutical Activities be adopted in the text tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u25	For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of the State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, Dr. Ana Medved.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u26	Thank you very much. On 17 November 2017, the Group of Members and Members tabled a proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Pharmaceutical Activities to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption following a reduced procedure. In the proposal for a law, they propose an extension of the transitional period in which drug users have to align their activities with the provisions of Article 26 of the Law on Pharmaceutical Activities. The third paragraph of Article 121 of the Act on Pharmaceutical Activities provides that operators of a pharmacy activity which do not comply with the conditions laid down in Article 26 of this Act shall comply with the provisions of this Act at the latest within one year of the application of this Act. The deadline for harmonising operations is 27 January 2018, which according to the applicant is too early and therefore proposes to extend the adjustment period until 31 January 2018. 12. 2019. Its proposal justifies that the adjustment period would be required within a reasonable time frame and that the arrangements adopted would still be maintained. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not oppose the proposal in the light of the above-mentioned substantive examination, it is said that we agree with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u27	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Left Group, Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! In Levica, we will support the temporary suspension of the privatisation of public companies LL Grossist and Farmadent, but I am already warning that the proposed solution is incomplete, and that the coalition should completely stop privatisation, not just delay it. So it is the same pre-election trick that the coalition has already performed in the case of the New Ljubljana Bank – instead of finally stopping the privatisation, it has only moved it to the post-election period. The direct result of such measures is only that coalition politicians can boast before the elections how they oppose privatisation, although of course it does not. In the previous mandate, Desus and SD supported a decision on the privatisation of 15 companies, and in this mandate, the government, SMC, Desus and SD, has actually sold most of these companies. The results were catastrophic for both employees and public finances; let us only remember the sale of New KBM. The Socialists, of course, object to the privatisation of public companies, so we proposed an amendment to the new pharmacy law to allow wholesale companies to remain publicly owned. I guess I don't have to explain in particular that the proposal of the Left was not entirely supported by anyone, nor by my colleague Horvat of NSI, who proposed, in the autumn, the cessation of privatisation with an authentic interpretation of this law. Socialists oppose the privatisation of public companies Farmadent from Maribor and LL Grossist from Ljubljana for two reasons. First of all, because the privatisation of these public companies would also privatise the profits generated by wholesale drugs. Secondly, because privatisation would strengthen the oligopol of two private companies, Chemofarmation and Salus, who already control our drug market. This damage cannot, of course, be prevented by delaying privatisation, but only by definitively stopping privatisation. This will be our goal in the next term. It should be said in general that the pharmacy law is one of the biggest mistakes of the current health coalition. The law confers on private pharmacists concessionaires to the detriment of public institutions. The problem is not only that the law forces the public pharmacy to privatise wholesalers, the problems are deeper. Firstly, the law allows concessionaires to set up a share in order to pay lower taxes than the rest of the espouses, and secondly, concessionaires can freely make profits available on the basis of this law, instead of returning them to their basic activities. The external observer wonders, of course, why the Ministry of Health has banned the free availability of profits for the concessionaires of doctors, which is right, but not for the concessionaires of the pharmacy, which is of course wrong. Simply when the Ministry prepared the Health Act, it did not comply with the requirements of the medical lobby, while the pharmacy lobby practically wrote the Medical Act itself. If I am specific, the president of the Miran Golub Pharmacy Chamber, who owns two concessional pharmacies in Styria and, clearly, an influential member of the SMC, participated in the preparation. Therefore, in the law there is a whole range of benefits for private friends concessionaires who will need them and we will have to abolish them in the next term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u29	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, for which Mrs Vlasta Wait.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u30	Dear Mr President, representatives of the Government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The Act on Pharmaceutical Activities, which we received in the National Assembly last December, has redefined the conditions and procedures for the granting and implementation of concessions for the performance of pharmacy activities, the conditions for the work of pharmaceutical professionals and their associations, the new definition of inter-network pharmacy activities and the supervision of the implementation of the pharmacy activity. This new regime has also addressed the status form of operators, including the so-called ban on vertical connections. This means that pharmaceutical operators must not directly or indirectly establish, direct and supervise legal entities or through capital investments or otherwise acquire or control the management or conduct legal entities engaged in the industrial manufacture of medicinal products, medical devices and other products to support treatment and to maintain the health or activity of traffic in bulk with medicinal products, medical devices. Nor shall there be holders of marketing authorisations for medicinal products. In adopting this solution, the legislator followed the principle that the holder of the pharmacy activity and also the operator of the pharmacy activity must be completely independent in the performance of their work. A transitional period has been set within which operators of pharmaceutical activities must adapt to this new regime and will expire in January 2018. In practice, this means that until this deadline, wholesalers who do not operate in accordance with the conditions laid down in the law should change their ownership structure and be associated with someone who is not connected to a pharmacy activity. In view of the fact that the cases in the practice of adjusting their operations during the envisaged transitional period have failed to materialise, it is reasonable to extend the transitional provisions. In doing so, it is important that we do not change the law's provisions which provide that this adjustment is necessary, but only extend the transitional period during which drug traders have to adapt their operations to new legislation. By means of a proposal for a law, this deadline is extended until 31 December 2019. In the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, we will support the proposal of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u31	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u32	Your Honor! We are considering a proposal to amend the Pharmacy Act on the proposal of a group of Members and Members of the Modern Centre Party. In the Modern Centre Party, the Members were most disturbed by an article referring to a transitional period during which pharmacy operators have to adjust their business in accordance with the law. The law provides that pharmacists must not directly or indirectly establish, direct or supervise, through related companies, legal entities engaged in the industrial manufacture of medicinal products or in the activity of wholesale trafficking in medicinal products. As a result of those restrictions, the law has therefore established a prohibition of vertical connections. Traders with medicinal products in which there is a link to the implementation of the pharmacy business should adjust their business by January 2018. They had a year. However, the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre proposed that this transitional period should be extended by two years, that is to say, up to 31. 12. 2019. This should allow healthcare providers to adjust their business to this new arrangement within a reasonable time frame, according to the modern Centre Party Group. Of course, we were immediately asked why, in the adoption of the law, such enthusiasm, and even in the same year, a proposal to change or extend the time limit in which pharmacies should adjust their business. Let us also recall the points at the previous meeting of the National Assembly concerning the authentic interpretation of Article 26 of the Law on Pharmacy, which discusses the general limitations for pharmacists. At that time, we talked about the company of the Ljubljana pharmacy Grosist and the company Farmadent and members of the coalition rejected this request, but today you come up with a proposal that assures you that you allow individual economic operators to adjust their business in accordance with the principle of good governance within a reasonable time frame and thus avoid possible sale of property under duress. However, you do not specify the reasons why individuals failed to make adjustments during the transition period and why for two years if you were convinced that this would happen within one year. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, the question arises without delay how these companies will adapt, why it takes two more years to do so, and whether we are adopting an amendment to the law for precisely defined two societies. The fact that we cannot trust coalition parties is also the fact that unfortunately the coalition does not know what laws it is adopting. The coalition shall vote as a voting machine, as instructed by the Minister. Why do I say that? It is not a year since you adopted here in the National Assembly the amendment of the Law on Medical Activities, which allows for privacy in the framework of concessions granted between 15 and 30 years, and the amendment of the Law on Health Activities, which suspends private medicine and potentially terminates about 100 private pharmacies in Slovenia. We did not support the amendment of the Lek Act in the Slovenian Democratic Party Group. At the time of adoption, we have noted that certain articles in the law are contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia because they violate free competition and thus violate the European Directive, which has led to an application to the European Commission against Slovenia. Nor will we support this amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u33	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs. Marija Antonija Kovacič is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, a very nice greeting to all! In the Desus Group, we are co-signers of the proposed amendment to the Act on Pharmaceutical Activities, which merely prolongs the transitional period during which pharmacy operators are required to have ownership of wholesalers. The current deadline was until the end of January 2018 and after a new deadline they can do so by the end of 2019. So far, none of the pharmacies have been separated from the wholesaler, but some of these procedures are ongoing. In this way, the deadline for the submission of non-binding offers for the Farmadent, sold by the Maribor municipality and the municipality of Duplek and Hoče - Slivnica, is short. We decided to co-sign the law in our parliamentary group because it does not interfere with the law in force and because we are assessing that it is necessary to allow drug users to carry out the procedure under conditions that will not lead to the sale under duress. This means that they shall be provided with a transitional period sufficient to comply with the legal provisions. Members and Members of the Desus Group will be supported by the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u35	The text is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jernej Vrtovec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u36	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Members of New Slovenia will support the bill. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Pharmacy is intended to extend the transitional period, by aligning its operations with Article 26 of the Law on Pharmaceutical Activities until 31 December 2019. In this way, pharmaceutical operators which have not aligned their activities with Article 26 of the Pharmaceuticals Act shall be allowed to carry out harmonisation within a reasonable period of time. The Committee stressed that the proposed deadline, 27 January 2018, was significantly too short and is therefore being extended for a further two years. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that a three-year transitional period is long enough for the sale of capital investments or shares or shares in capital and other investments under conditions that will not lead to the sale under coercion. And since a transitional period has been proposed relatively short, this could mean that a pharmacy operator would have benefited from a lower purchase than it would have if it had had more time at its disposal. In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the proposal for a new law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u37	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the mother labour body proposes to the assembly that the draft law be adopted in the proposed text and since the amendments to the transitional and final provisions have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the draft law. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the 28th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes the third item of the agenda. We're moving to seven. At the end of the day, this is a bill on the additions of the law on organizationality and police work after the termination of the procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of nineteen Members and Members with first-signed Mr Jozet Tank. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the motioners, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u38	Thank you very much. I don't know if I'm gonna be able to tell you in those five minutes, which I'm going to do, but it's still on for a while. The Law on Organising and Working in the Police in 86th and 88th articles also refers to the so-called Police Housing Fund. This is basically intended for active police after retirement or any other reason for leaving the police, and police officers no longer have the right to keep such an apartment. The Regulation, which is currently in force at the Ministry of the Interior and is adopted on the basis of these two articles, is illegal in my opinion. Illegal, in particular, because the minister tried to solve other problems and the problems of retired police officers in some way, but she had no legal basis, and I do not criticize her, because he was actually good at it. In public, there's clearly been an outbreak of a case involving a retired police officer. I will not talk about personal data, because all the media have already published them, it is a war veteran involved in the battle in Trzin, if you call it that, there was blood running, there were dead, there were few of us in such a situation, and yet Trzin is the one who marked this man very important. And it's not just Mr. Solomon, it's a lot more. It's a lot more than that. Ladies and gentlemen - at this point I see that some veterans are coming to the balcony - I will say this if this country cares about pension fighters 1941-1945 and so on, then the war veterans who created this Slovenia deserve the same. However, this law does not solve this problem. With this law, we are solving the problem of war veterans, by means of this law we are solving the problem of family members at work, I stress, in the work of murdered police officers and, of course, disabled persons of the first category, such as Mr Solomon. This is therefore a question of 30, 40 cases in this country, and if this country does not have for 30 police dwellings in the billions and more of taxpayers' money collected in the budget between 2014 and 2017, then something is wrong with this country and not with police housing. Secondly, we are in an extremely funny situation today. The members of the committee mainly announced support for this law, both the United Left, SD, Desus and mostly the SMC, but I am now reading one letter from the Minister of the Interior, which was addressed to all of you. The opposition has no right to such a letter, but it was published by the evening, so I can quote it. The minister opposes this law because she says that police housing is for active police officers. The Minister opposes and says that she will systematically solve the problem, but does not say how. We've got four sessions of the National Assembly and we're done! I'm going to the greatest absurdity that can happen in this country. The greatest absurdity that can happen in this country in relation to this law. Veteran Association North, go to their website, from A to Z partisan celebrations, not theirs, but partisans, here and there an event, about their membership, not a word. And when we consider the law concerning police war veterans in this House, one would expect the North to come forward to support this law. They didn't pick up. They're quiet because they're worried. I'm sorry for being a payphone, but people would say they're taking care of their asses. I'm talking about leadership and not about members, far from that – I've been out a long time. And one more thing. The police union, you can't believe what happened, the police unions are against it. Police unions are against it and say that the problem needs to be resolved in a systematic manner, which means for all police officers to enforce the Jasbin law. We know what the law of Jasbinski is. So, stupidity squared. Who in this country hopes to say such things, but to ask and ask Members to accept them? More from the bench because I'm running out of time.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u39	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Magi. Baby Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, President. Secretary of State with fellow Members, Members and Members of Parliament, a very nice greeting! The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government shall be held at its 62nd emergency meeting. 12. 2017 as a parent working body, submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank. In the course of the course of business, the amendments to the draft law were tabled by the SDS Group, namely Articles 1, 2, 3, for a new Article 3a and 4, respectively. The representative of the proposer gave an additional explanation to the article of the bill. She said it was an intervention in two articles, but the proposed solution is one that would significantly help improve the situation of police officers who risk their lives, risk their health and, in fact, are the first ones in the country to take care of our safety. She stressed the importance of veterans of the war for Slovenia, which enabled us to live today in the independent country of Slovenia, that we have our own country, the Slovenian Parliament and all institutions and that we are citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. The law on police organisation and work already offers individual options when it comes to the operation and way of life of the police themselves, but there have been shortcomings that have recently been quite resonant. She also pointed out that service apartments are intended only for those who are active in the police after the current regime. A similar solution was proposed for veteran wars for Slovenia. Finally, she said that the Legislative and Legal Service had made some comments followed by the proposed amendments. The Minister of the Interior said that the Ministry was aware of the importance of the issue before it was given a public dimension. It is aware that not all retired police personnel have been able to take care of their housing issue permanently during active work. The Ministry is already assisting both pensioners and family members as well as war veterans under the existing regulation. They are leased other apartments in a place where police officers have shown no interest in renting and thus try to help them to arrange permanent accommodation in due course. Of course, on the other hand, it is also the responsibility of the Ministry to try to deal economically with the available service housing fund. She pointed out that the purpose of the proposed law was certainly positive, but the Government felt that it was not sufficiently legal and systematic. The government therefore supports amendments to the Police Act, which will benefit from the broad support of employees as well as the social partners. With regard to the issue under consideration, the Ministry was not already passive; this year, the Housing Code was amended by giving tenants the option of choosing another apartment, but as stated in places where there is no interest expressed by employees. In the end, she pointed out, first of all, that they are intended to solve human resources problems for a time when the police need them to carry out their legal duties. In the presentation of the opinion, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service drew attention to the indeterminability of the proposed regulation. She also pointed out that the draft law also regulates the right to rent a service apartment for persons who have military veteran status under the War Veterans Act. In this regard, she pointed out that this was a non-systemic approach. With regard to the amendments, she said that they were dealing with some of the comments raised, but not all of them. Following the Committee's discussion, the Committee adopted the amendments of the SDS Group to Articles 1, 2, 3 for a new Article 3a and 4 as well as a proposal for a law. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law in which the amendments adopted are incorporated is prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u41	In order to explain my opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to the State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior, Mr Boštjan Šefić.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u42	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The government took note of the Proposal for a Law on Complements of the Law on Organising and Working in the Police and could not support it. You received a detailed opinion in writing. For a long time, we have been aware of this problem and, of course, we are actively looking for solutions, but we want solutions that will be fair, balanced, which will prevent non-uselessness, take into account the relevant criteria and build on a consensus between active police officers, pensioners and at the same time take into account the needs of the police system, as we are talking about jobs. We are aware that some former employees, now retired police officers have failed to settle their housing issue on a permanent basis, so with a clear objective we have amended the 2006 Regulation, which cancelled the lease indefinitely for a fixed period of 5 years with the possibility of extension. This year, we have introduced the possibility of allowing pensioners to choose a different apartment if what they were living in is urgently necessary in places where there is no service requirement. Therefore, I can say that we are already helping retired former police officers, their relatives and war veterans, but within the framework of the legal possibility of economic management of the available service housing fund, in particular by taking into account the purpose of service apartments. Official apartments are not intended to deal with the housing issue for life, but rather for the official needs of active police officers for the duration of police employment or even for a specific position or place of employment. For this purpose, the rules also set out the criteria and conditions. This also solves the existing issues of active police officers so that they can unmistakably devote themselves to their police work and at the same time coordinate private and family life. Nevertheless, the Government considers the purpose of the proposal to be positive, but unfortunately, legally and systematically incomplete, as it is intended to try to solve individual specific cases, thus opening up the possibility of a number of new problems and potential non-use, while at the same time doing the wrong thing to the most vulnerable category, these are young families. The proposal also constitutes a unilateral intervention in social dialogue, as it significantly interferes with and violates the agreements concluded in the firm negotiations under the strike agreement. Therefore, the Government cannot support unilateral regulation of the proposed amendment of the law. The Government also notes that the proposed amendment has significant financial implications which the applicant has not identified. If we go along the path of adopting these changes, within a few years we will run out of apartments for active police officers right in places where the need for police officers is greatest, Ljubljana, Kranj, Obala. Therefore, honourable Members and Members, I propose that you support our proposal, in cooperation with the representatives of veterans, before the end of the year, to draw up concrete proposals for articles that will address the housing problem for veterans in the special law, the Law on War veterans, while at the same time allowing the work to be completed by the Interdepartmental Working Group, which has been working for a long time on deliberate solutions. This will take into account the principles mentioned in the introduction and, by amending the Law on Organising and Working in the Police, which is one way or another in the Government's normative programme immediately at the beginning of next year, we will also deal comprehensively and consistently with the issue of housing for the families of those police officers who, for example, would lose their lives in performing their duties or would become disabled in the first category. The proposal for amendments will be drafted by the Government and the Ministry of the Interior together with both unions by the end of January at the latest and, with the support and political will of the Members, these changes could be adopted early in the spring. This approach would meet the expectations of the social partners, as this area would be regulated by trade unions, taking into account social dialogue. At the same time, we could also properly assess the financial implications to be included in the budget planning documents. Of course, during the preparation and implementation of the proposed amendments, a kind of one-year moratorium would apply to all those currently in the process and would maintain the current legal and factual situation. To conclude, I would like to point out that this approach has already been supported by both police unions, which are strongly opposed to the proposed changes. I therefore once again call on you, honourable Members and Members, not to support the proposed amendments while at the same time allowing appropriate arrangements for all the affected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u43	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, Mr Franc Laj.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u44	Mr President, representatives of the Ministry, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In the Group of Unaffiliated Members, we will vote on the proposal for a law amending this law in our own conscience – why? Because we believe that partial resolution under pressure from public opinion will in no way produce the desired results. This also proves the very approach to solving this problem, as both unions have expressed themselves as one other solution, for social dialogue with the Ministry, which we consider to be the best solution or best approach. We are of course of the opinion that, under no circumstances and under any circumstances, none of these persons who are in this position to be disabled must thus lose their housing rights. Last but not least, representatives of the ministry said that they were actively looking for solutions to such a problem and that no one was at risk of a job. This kind of calms us down, but we don't like to see such problems being solved too long, and that's why there's a way of trying to solve it, as we're witnessing today. I would like to point out some further concerns if this law were also adopted in the proposed form. Let's just think that at certain locations, police stations have apartments in the same building. This is not because they could not have housing for their workers elsewhere, but because active police officers can be more operational quickly and very, I will say, an active response to intervention when there are security threats. I hope, and we hope, that all that has been put forward by the representatives of the ministry and, of course, that these negotiations will be concluded as soon as possible and found comprehensive solutions for the welfare of the whole society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u45	The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mr Marko Ferruga.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u46	Thank you for your word. Greetings to the Secretary of State and the team and everyone else! Today, we are considering the law on supplementing the Law on Organising and Working in the Police, which seeks to ensure that disabled police officers, relatives of deceased police officers and veterans of the war on Slovenia can retain the right to work housing. In addition to supplementing Articles 86 and 88, which regulates the latter, they also propose transitional decisions covering open cases of ex-cops and relatives whose leases are leaking. In the SMC Group, we believe that the state must take care of police officers and police officers who risked and exposed their health and life in the performance of their work, as well as their closest family members. The SMC Group is aware of the need for some retired police officers who have retired for reasons of disability and who have not been able to ensure that their housing problems are resolved, some way of ensuring their living. We are also aware of the great emotional and material hardships experienced by individuals and their family members in the face of tragic losses or disability. The Group supports such arrangements for police officers, which enable them to rent apartments or their normal lives, but we are absolutely against matters being politicised and the media is on fire. For these reasons, we supported the amendment of the law submitted by the applicant by the members and members of the parliamentary group on the home working body. Although the novel brings partial solutions that only partially regulate the problem, it only refers to three categories of former police officers or their relatives. Since these are more endangered categories, we have decided to contribute to the prioritisation of their social situation and their existence. We invited the rapporteurs to prepare further amendments to the plenary session of the assembly, which would also address the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service and the comments made on the home working body. Before the concrete amendments proposed, we will be defined after the discussion on the arguments given by both the proposer and the panellists. Nevertheless, we would like to point out that we have agreed to an urgent resolution of the situation by calling for an urgent meeting so that no one can see that we are preventing this problem from being solved, as the Minister has already warned at the meeting of the working body, at this time there is no one who would have threatened him with emigration if this law had not been adopted in December. The Ministry of the Interior is now assisting both retired police officers and relatives and war veterans. The latter can only work under existing legislation, which we can all agree with the Ministry that it does not address all issues in an appropriate manner. We also agree with the comments that have been addressed to us by the trade unions following the meeting of the working body, namely that the proposed additions to the problem do not regulate the issue in a comprehensive and equal manner to all employees. Trade unions say that the state must take care of active police officers with young families, so they have drawn up a supplementary bill to pursue the common objective of protecting the various categories of employees. The arguments on the purpose of employment housing, which are intended to solve the problem of police officers for the time when the police need them to carry out their legal duties, were also raised by the Minister, who wishes to resolve them in social dialogue with the said unions and with the veterans' association North. Notwithstanding the latter in the SMC Group of the above-mentioned supplements, we did not invest because we decided to leave the solution to the social dialogue of all stakeholders. However, we expect the Minister and the Ministry of the Interior to take an urgent approach to the resolution and drafting of amendments and the addition of the Law on the organisation and work of the police, including in the area of contractual arrangements for the rental of office apartments, which will cover several aspects such as the present amendment of the law, the working needs for the Ministry of the Interior, the creation of property criteria for the prevention of abuse, and the continuation of work within the inter-ministerial supplementary group, which will also consider amendments and supplement the Law on War Veterans. In the parliamentary group, we also expect the Government to consider the possible reorganisation of the fund of rents or all of the service apartments available to the State and that this novel will only take effect in a transitional period until the adoption of these government or government proposals that will systematically resolve this. As far as the SMC Group is concerned, we will vote on our own conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u47	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u48	Dear President, all present! Before us is a novel of the Law on Organising and Working in the Police, which on the parliamentary bench took the initiative of the Slovenian Democratic Party or at the initiative of a colleague of Dr Vinko Gorenak. It frees up rights in respect of work apartments. Quantitatively, it is a minor breach of the law, bringing changes to the two articles, and substantively brings important solutions to police and veteran wars for Slovenia when questioned by their existence or the existence of their family members. The law on police organisation and work already provides individual solutions when it comes to the operation and way of life of police officers themselves, but it also has shortcomings, as evidenced by the concrete examples of the situation. One of them was also made known to the general public. The current regulation of the Police Organization and Work Act does not regulate cases where a police officer loses his life in his work. Unfortunately, there are also such tragedies and, as a result, if a policeman was a tenant of an apartment, the lease is terminated and the family has to move out of the apartment within a certain period of time. This proposal of the amendment introduces a solution that in such a case the family has the opportunity to submit an application or to conclude a new contract for residence in this apartment for an indefinite period of time. The same solution also introduces marriage novels for police officers who have lost their health in their work and who are consequently disabled. Official apartments are intended only for those who are active in the police after the current regime. Similar solutions include novelties for veteran wars for Slovenia. The proposed amendment to the law therefore brings a solution that will help to improve the condition of police officers who risk their lives, their health and care for our safety, so it is only right that the novel should regulate that in the event of death or disability, neither police nor their family members will remain on the road. True, unions want even more or want the impossible, but a concrete proposal brings solutions when it comes to really absurd situations, when we solve the housing problem for those who have left this country with their health, and when we rescue the families of those who have given them their lives. Dearly beloved, it is up to us that in the light of the note of humanity to these police officers, veterans of the War on Slovenia, who, and also to their family members, are threatened with evicting from their work apartment, we will allow them to stay in these apartments. We have been elected to the National Assembly to propose better legislative solutions to improve existing ones and support smart solutions. This is what brings the novelties of the law that we are considering today. I hope it will also be voted, given that you have done the same thing on your mother's working body. This is certainly not a topic where we could afford to measure political muscles. It is also not a topic in which we owe a debt on the systemic or non-systematic nature of a measure. This is a topic where without big words we should come together and by adopting a law solve the existential problem for all those who are or are still giving this country the most, their health and their lives. Your Honor, is it even possible to give more?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u49	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Benedict Kopmajer is responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u50	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, representatives of the Government, everyone's welcome! Support for the proposal on the home working body suggests that coalition and opposition Members can find a common language, especially when it comes to sensitive topics such as the plight of citizens and citizens in the event of housing problems. The proposal is to resolve the plight of retired police officers or veterans of the war on Slovenia who have retired for reasons of disability. Often, because of their inability to do their job, they have no chance of survival. In other words, they do not have the opportunity to purchase or rent suitable housing properties and find themselves in severe social distress. At the same time, we must note that these are people who have taken care of order and security in the Republic of Slovenia and have risked their lives. While representatives of the Ministry of the Interior have explained that such cases are properly taken care of, they are offered housing outside areas where the need for police work is lower, while their apartments are occupied by active young police officers. While we understand all these Members and Members of the Desus Group, at this point the argument prevailed that police officers, who for various reasons can no longer carry out their work, and their family members deserve a decent life even at the time of their retirement. We probably all agree that moving to another place after many years of family living in a particular place is not a pleasant living situation. This entails a lot of obligations, including frequent visits to health care institutions, so we support a solution that will ensure that disabled police officers and relatives of deceased police officers can retain the right to work housing. If the Ministry prepares a system law, so much the better, but the pressing problems need to be solved immediately and now. On the basis of the above, we have decided to support Ambassadors and Members of Desus. For we believe that, as a country, we are sufficiently solidarity and rich enough to allow a decent life for those who have risked their health for this country, as well as for some who have risked their lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u51	The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, a magi for her. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u52	Thank you again very much for your word. The proposed amendment to the Police Organization and Work Act affects two articles regulating the rights of family members after the death of a police officer, as well as employment and leisure activities, with a focus on regulating the housing issue of employees in the police after they leave for retirement. The media has highlighted one case, but it is not the only one and not the same from today, many police officers or employees at the Ministry of the Interior have thus been living in working homes throughout their working life. Many have come to work elsewhere, have formed a family there, or have other family members adapted and moved, all for a reason that the family stays together. In a few decades, family members have become accustomed to a new place, a new life, new friendships, and so forth, and now they wonder how they will find a suitable home after they leave, especially if they think about the height of their salary or their proper pension. For us Slovenians, especially for the older generation, it is characteristic that we are very attached to the house, the apartment and the place and have a difficult change of dwelling, let alone to move somewhere else. For example, they live in Ljubljana for 30 years, in Celje, and then they are offered or placed before the fact that they should move to an apartment, for example, in Vinico, Ormož, Illyrian Bistrica, away from relatives. There's nothing wrong with these places. Social Democrats are aware that solving the housing problem of police officers and other employees at the Ministry of the Interior in this way is probably not appropriate. We understand that it is necessary to have work apartments for new members of the police, but we do not think that the problem has been solved in a way that responds to the needs. The Housing Fund needs to be renewed and adapted to the needs of today. We have obtained information that there are as many as 80 unoccupied housing units, such as 13 in Maribor, 10 in Ljubljana and so on. What's the state of the apartment? Against this background, the Social Democrats will support the proposal to complement the Law on Organising and Working in the Police, and we will also support the proposed amendments that have been tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u53	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr Zvonko Lah, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u54	Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! Let us say at the outset that in New Slovenia we support the proposal for a new law. We do not understand those who persist in repeating that this law only solves an individual case and that the area of renting of office apartments should be fully regulated. They say that today's solution puts a number of police and other police personnel at a disadvantage. In addition to the government, both police unions say that they should primarily work to address the growing problem of police housing for several years. We absolutely agree, it would be wonderful if the government prepared the system solutions on its own. We would be even more pleased to support it, since, as the two unions are now unitedly proposing, it would bring solutions so that after retirement any policeman could keep the apartment or buy it cheap after the so-called Law of Jasbinsk. In New Slovenia we appeal to the Government to adopt such comprehensive solutions as soon as possible. Of course, you will not do that, so we suggest that you support in the coalition at least a partial solution that solves the housing problem for three categories of Slovenian police officers: police veterans of the war for Slovenia, disabled police officers and family members of police officers who died at work. Dearly beloved, let us remind you that we are talking about the lives of Slovenian citizens, those who did the most for our homeland during the war of independence and later for our common security. More than giving your life and sacrificing your health, none of us can do. It is ironic that it is for them that the government creates an impression, as if it were a negligible act, that their contribution is even equivalent to that of other police personnel. Meanwhile, you saved an illegal migrant who wanted to stay in Slovenia with your left hand overnight. At that time, you did not think that you did not systematically solve these migrants’ issues, but you even broke the law and interfered with the legal decisions of the courts. It was also one person who is not a Slovenian citizen and, on the other hand, by this law, the proposer wants to solve a large number of Slovenian citizens, police officers who were unable to resolve the housing issue because of their specific work and stayed in service apartments. At the same time, the government states that these apartments are not intended to solve the housing issue for life, but to hire an active job in the police, in other words, a roof over their heads for as long as we need them, and then say goodbye. It's really sad that the entire state apparatus didn't move until the case of police veteran disabled Brank Shalamun, who is threatened with a job from his office. It is even sadder that the law, which would solve his case and many others like him, does not support both police unions and even calls on the government not to accept it. Wrong world. On the contrary, we would expect them to take their stand for it, for it represents a step towards further comprehensive solutions. We'd expect them to raise their voices first because it's one of them. If we did, we might be able to take systemic solutions today, and 61 police homes wouldn't remain empty. Another interesting thing is how the unions and the government give their hand in this case. New Slovenia will support the proposal for a new Law on Organising and Working in the Police.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u55	Before I give the word forward, I would like for the sake of accuracy – please remain within these frameworks so that there will be no controversy that is absolutely unnecessary. [[advertising from the hall]] No, the truth is, he doesn't hold what was said. The word is given by the Left Group, Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u56	Thank you for your word. Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! We have already drawn attention to the housing problem in Levika. Chronic lack of non-profit apartments, almost daily rentals, an unregulated rental market, and all of this is the result of the misdemeanour over the past 25 years in the residential area. After we have written down in the Constitution that the state is creating opportunities for citizens to get a suitable home, decisions of past policies have gone in a completely different direction. First, a public housing fund was sold out with the law of Jazbinšk. However, there has never been a recovery of this fund, and today we are facing a chronic lack of non-profit housing. In the State budget, EUR 800,000 is foreseen for housing activities. Such an amount is directly demeaning in view of actual needs. This is due to the fact that, despite years of economic growth for these rents and for these purposes, there is no money. Given that we will spend more than a billion euros on NATO's battalions, it is clear that the problem is not in the absence of budgetary resources, but in completely missed priorities. We are in a situation where, despite many years of economic growth, there are as many as 280,000 people living below the poverty line. Unfortunately, the deployments have become permanent, while the Republic Housing Fund is building luxury residential neighborhoods, where prices range from €140,000 per wardrobe to €820,000 per unit house. In the meantime, there is chaos in the rental market. The same is true in the field of office housing. It is clear from the Court of Auditors’ audit reports that the State or the competent ministries do not control the situation. Despite this government's strong promises, there has not been much change in property management. According to available data for 2015, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior have 2 000 515 office apartments. There were 381 unoccupied and 176 apartments were held by tenants who had no connection with the government. According to the Court of Auditors, the ministries do not have any information on whether or not the tenants who are entitled to these apartments are in the apartment. And in doing so, we're dealing with assignments. That's unacceptable. Nevertheless, the Ministry of Internal Affairs is obviously more effective in the operations of retired police officers and war veterans than in the records of its available properties. As a result, today we are considering this law before us, by law we are trying to resolve the housing issue of retired police officers, disabled persons, families during the service of deceased police officers and war veterans. Unfortunately, the government did not support the proposal. As always, she'll be looking again for a systemic solution. A convenient excuse for solutions that are already sought for a full mandate, but never and nowhere to be found, and even a mandate expires. In Levi, of course, we will support the law. For us, all the assignments we witness are totally unacceptable. It is also unacceptable to have a policy which, while aware that in practice, works occur practically every day, instead of solving the problem, puts all burdens on non-profit and humanitarian organisations, while budget surpluses are equally unacceptable and shamelessly shared among those rich and privileged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u57	In the same way as I warned earlier, I will also point out this time that let us stick to the topic that this debate will make sense. I understand you'll give the first word. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled by 13. 12. 2017. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. First of all, according to tradition, the representative of the proposer, Dr. Vinko Gorenak. I hope we stick to what you are – let's try to stay inside this topic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u58	President, I'm gonna stay in the dark, not because you said it, but because I'm gonna say it another time, because now it's a more important topic. It's more of a topic now, so I won't contradict you. [[advertising from the hall]] Okay. Look, I have to go a little bit wider now, not just in Article 2, but then I won't come by, because I'm running out of time. First, something about the obvious opinions of the Slovenian Democratic Party about this law. In the media as well as here and where it was heard: “You are collecting polling points. You take advantage of an individual and his distress,” and so on. I have to say, I don't collect any election points because I don't need them. You need them, and I don't, because I won't run, and you will. That's what you say. I can say no. And the other thing is, if I were to collect polling points, I wouldn't be proposing this law. The vast majority of the people to whom this law applies are veterans, including active police officers, because they are either way – I don't know how many, but I'm guessing 90% are left-wing voters and not right-wing voters. So, I don't need to, and I don't do it for that, but we're doing it because we want to solve one problem of people who need to be solved. That's why we filed this law. Now let's do it in order. Mr Secretary of State, the unions – not what you said, let them improve and speak the truth – do not strongly oppose, as you said. That's not true. Then I'll tell you what the unions say. Next, you are committed to social dialogue. Social dialogue means that the Ministry is making laws that the union supports. Come on, let's sell sausages! Not to me. Nonsense. How many times did this government come to Parliament when the unions did not support any law? X-fold. In fact, they rarely do if they did. It's like a trick, you're working a joke. You need apartments for young police officers, I support that, but 3,000 700 of them could be bought on account of you hiring 8,000 new civil servants, the public administration hired them. But I won't anymore – about a billion and that. If there's no money inside this for 30 police apartments, you'd better step down like the government tomorrow. Next, “financial consequences are not defined” – they will not be defined at this time. At this point they won't, because some X apartments will be used by retired police officers or those listed there. Now, look, "we're going to set up a system" – if you tell me with one sentence how you're going to set up a system for all the cops, I'll be very happy, but I don't think it's possible. Not at all by the end of January. Look at the way you pull cops. By the end of January, you will be introducing the law, then there will be a general debate in March, and you will be saying good-bye in April because we have the last meeting in April and the law cannot be adopted in this way. It can't be. We all know that. In the first place, we will “symbolize” – yes, how? At this point, the unions also want to regulate the system. Do you know what systemic means? They wrote, they want the Izbinskis' marriage. Yeah, then give it to them! 88. Article 88, insert the amendment, and write: “All police officers are entitled under the law of Jasbinsk.” Okay, but I think it's impossible to accept in this house. In my opinion. A few comments on the individual speakers. Mr. Lai, of course, has inherited partial rescue. That's not a partial solution. This is the rescue of disabled people, veterans and relatives at the work of dead police officers, three of whom have been killed in the last two years. I don't know which one of us has the heart to press against. I don't know. I don't understand this individual. Then he hopes to go to the polls. Mr Ferruga had to balance the situation in his client, drive a little bit to the left, a little bit to the right, and finally say that they would vote in their conscience. All right, Mr. Ferruga, I have no problem, but I publicly state that I will publish the list five minutes after the vote. I'll tell you in advance. You're saying no one is in danger of being evicted. You're wrong about that. [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, of course, the minister said she was out. Since October, Solomon has been living there illegally and can expect the executioners every second! But do you know where? To the yard, where they're restoring the asylum home. You advocate social dialogue – okay, just tell me how you're going to solve this. We've told you how to save for these three groups. With Mr Kopmajer – I thank Desus, SD and Levica, I know that Mrs Tomić said with a lump in her throat that you would support, but I thank you for your support, I absolutely thank you, absolutely, but with Mr Kopmajer – something has to be said. She says, "They offer you a solution so you can go to another apartment," that's what Mrs Muršič said if I'm not mistaken. That's true, but do you know what that looks like in practice? Shalamun received an offer, “Go to Logatec”. It said it on the offer for a year. Then what? A leg to the back, isn't it? How this person should go to Logatec – the data has been published publicly, so I will not publish any personal data – when you know that twice the stroke has hit him, when you know that no kidneys are working and that he is tied to a clinical center, and when you know that he is missing half his legs because he has been cut off. Now he's supposed to drive from Logatco to a clinical center? Yeah, how? The one who talks about a surrogate apartment is rude or funny if you call it that. Secretary of State, our law neither limits you nor prevents you from bringing a systemic solution by 31 January. There's no problem. If we adopt a law today that prevents us from throwing relatives on the road in the work of murdered police officers, we will not throw disabled people like Solomon on the road, and we will not throw war veterans on the road in front of an asylum home, what will this do to the interior ministry by 31 January? Absolutely nothing! I will be the first to try, with the help of the parliamentary group on 31 January, to speed up your law, which will systematically resolve the matter in order to be adopted by April. Okay. But you know, Secretary of State, you can't do that. How are you going to get Jazbinski's law through this House? No way! No way. What I resent in this situation is the North — I am proud to have left those species in 2009 or 2010 — who say nothing today. His president is happily sitting on the balcony when we're having a party here and he's not here today. And then the national celebration out there for health, two kids, then I see him here, and today he's not here. I'm talking about the head of the association at the state level. And the unions – they struck in 2012 and they couldn't tell me why they were strikes. As long as this union is as slippery as it is at this moment and talks about a systemic solution and opposes this law It is true, the union opposes, not harshly, as you say, but that is not true. [[…]] The union says it's for a systemic solution. It's the law of Jasbinski. Here's to the end of the first part. Ladies and gentlemen, we take care of the fighters in 1941-1945 as we care. I have a lot of problems with this, but the legislation is in force and legislation needs to be respected. Until we adopt a law in this country, according to which we will say, every Slovenian veteran of the 1991 war for Slovenia has the right to a pension xy, at the level of fighters, if he earned a pension at work that is smaller – and most policemen have a smaller – then his country replaces the difference to – I don't care how many, 500, 700, 000, 300 I don't care how many. [[…]] Then we will justly resolve the situation of veterans in this country and not before. Not before. I'm not gonna get sick of that pension in 1941, and 1945 is 20 years old, let's leave it. But the people who did this country, the people of the Shalamun, who looked death in the eyes of Trzin No, this country is not fair until all veterans are in the same condition as I mentioned it. But to a large extent, they are themselves guilty, and I must admit that. He blames himself to a large extent. Once the IPA-type non-political organisation is in place, they will achieve that. As long as it's like looking at their moral uncle from Murgel and worshiping him, it's just the way it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u59	Mr Boštjan Šefic, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Just explained a few things at this stage. The first thing is, I think we all agree and there is no dilemma here that certain issues that are real here need to be resolved. The difference is how and whether we will resolve them in a partial way so that we may not be able to solve some problems at all, or we will solve them in a way that brings this issue off the agenda. If there is will in this House, of course we can do so in this mandate. I believe it is, and I agree with Ambassador Gorenak that we will be able to do so. As far as both unions are concerned, I must first say that all the key legislation in the field of the Ministry of the Interior, where they are concerned, has been made in agreement. In the Law on Organising and Working in the Police, I must say that I am very pleased that we have succeeded, and also in the Law on Police Tasks and Powers. Of course, there is another question that someone would like to resolve differently, but there is always a need for agreement, and there is always a need for someone to let go of those questions. I am therefore very pleased that both trade unions have unanimously confirmed and supported the Minister's proposal, how quickly, effectively to resolve this issue. This is definitely important. The second thing I would like to point out once again, and it was also mentioned in the introduction, is that of the office apartments for the purpose that I highlighted in the introduction. Of course, we are aware of the problems that have arisen, so we have also amended the 2006 regulation, which has abolished a whole range of rights and also some of the possibilities that have existed before, probably because of the problems that the then minister has had with these issues or something else. We have made a change just so that those apartments that we have at our disposal and which the police system does not need, we can give them to use to try to solve certain problems. They must be, and this seems very important to us, the uniform criteria by which we will decide and, of course, distribute fairly. Obviously, if we're not doing business with the housing fund, I absolutely can't agree. We work very carefully with these apartments. The numbers mentioned by the honourable Member – these are the apartments that are waiting for the invitation to tender or are in the process of adaptation, in short, are not apartments that they would not need. But it is true that quite a few apartments are also ready for reselling. Just because they're in places where we don't need these apartments right now, we're going to sell them off, we're going to try to buy new apartments where it's needed, so that we can allow the police who are carrying out the tasks we're moving them. If such provisions are enforced, these rights will be exercised by all those who have — of course, I am talking about this veteran work now — the status of veterans, and these in our apartments are something that is now due to the official needs in them. If this is right, everyone will take advantage of it, and in this case we will have great problems, so what we are advocating is that there are clear criteria, who needs it, or whether it is for an indefinite period of time, for a transitional period, in short, to define it accurately and to help these people in this way. But we need more housing, we want to work, and now we are finally at some stage in the employment of young police officers. You know that in 2018, 2019, we talked about this in Parliament, large groups of police officers are leaving the system, we need young police officers, which we also need to provide them with the right conditions. That's why we need these apartments. However, I agree that the structure in terms of territory is not favourable, so we are also selling out some of these apartments in order to buy them where this is absolutely necessary. As far as the mention of the Law of Jazbin is concerned, I agree with you, honourable Member, that is not the solution, and that is why we are not proposing or referring to such a proposal. This was one of the options in these conversations. Of course, we think that it is necessary to resolve in a different way, and as I said in the first place, in cooperation with veterans, within the government, with trade unions and find an optimal solution. I'm sure, otherwise I wouldn't have laid out such a short period of time that it absolutely could be found at this time. Just this, a specific case that was mentioned here. I'm not going to talk about it, because I don't have the habit of talking about people who aren't here, who can't participate, who can't present their vision, but I can say that there was and is still a lot of energy invested in getting rid of this problem. Of course, to solve the problem there must be two, in this case, and the will on both sides to find this solution. We've been back-checking my behavior so far, and we haven't moved anyone out of any apartment. Until this moment. And at this point, no one is in such a state that this could have already happened. That's the first thing. And secondly, I stress, we propose that this be resolved, as I have said, and at the same time a one-year decree of any activity in this regard, so that we can, in peace, without tension, without all of this, also be resolved in accordance with the legislation that we would draw up, and also with the sub-legislative acts. This is the most constructive way to address all these problems, particularly with regard to retired police and veterans. For that part, in case of death or disability of the first category, I must say that Slovenian police officers are very well cared for. Of course, no distinction or state offering is sufficient and it is impossible to repay life or disability to understand each other, but both the law and the regulation provide such solutions that we can help our children as much as possible to the police or their relatives. I agree, however, that we will also address the issue of housing further, although I think we are doing a good job of dealing with the issues of active police. So much for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u61	The text shall be by the representative of the proposers, Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Just a few comments. You said, "Quickly, an effective solution in a different way until 31 January". Please at least indicate how you are going to solve this. Because as long as you're saying it's gonna be solved, solved, saved, and I don't know how it's gonna be solved, I can't believe you. So point some direction in which marriage is to go. Secondly, you say that if this law is adopted today, what will be the problem? 60, Violeta said before 80 or how many apartments you sell, I know you will sell them for once less than they are in Ljubljana, and buy them 30 in Ljubljana. For 80 apartments on the periphery you will get 30 in Ljubljana and you will have no problem with this. You say not to talk about people who are not here; Solomon cannot come here, because he is too poor, because he is disabled, and I believe he is looking at us. You say “one year’s decree” because we too have a decree, even in this law there is a decree to make a moratorium on those things that are currently going on. You say the dead are well taken care of, yes, it is, because I know how it is, in 2012 we introduced this into the law adopted in 2013. Before we know it was worse, the lot of things we put in there, that's true. But if those three who have been dead in the last two years have had work apartments, you're obliged to throw them out after the letter of the marriage the next day. [[advertising from the hall]] What do you mean?Oh, my If these people had a work apartment, the next day we'd have to throw our family out of the apartment. That's what we're doing with this marriage, and that's what we're doing.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u63	Colleagues, colleagues, because I see that there is an interest in the debate, I invite you to apply for the debate. The application shall be made. The first one gets the word mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! Politics teaches that it is always best to make a comparison. This shows people the essence of the story, all the things that try to hide in one way or another. When it comes to questions of disabled people, veterans of the war on Slovenia who are thrown out of their homes, this comparison is extremely instructive about Slovenia. Ladies and gentlemen, for an illegal migrant who is a barber, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has met and sought a way to help him stay in Slovenia illegally, even though all the procedures at the Ministry of Interior have been completed, the Minister here has responded very rightly, already completed. It's government policy. However, when a veteran of war for Slovenia is disabled and needs an apartment where he can still live to the best of his ability, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not meet. She may even have had this suggestion, but she does not meet because she is obviously an illegal migrant, one barber from the Horn, who, by the way, shaves in black, more important than a veteran of the war on Slovenia, who is a disabled person who has participated in direct battles, say, in Trzin. This, of course, says something — something terrible is wrong with this government and this coalition and values in this country. Very wrong, ladies and gentlemen. To make matters even more interesting, consider the comparison of a veteran of war for Slovenia, who is disabled, offered as a substitute solution to an apartment in the attic, which is practically useless and inaccessible to him. For migrants, the same government, for illegal migrants – is said to be criminals, because if they are illegals – the criminals – have called for the apartment to be equipped with leather seats, with an LED TV, with a glass ceramic cooking board and so on and so on. In short, for someone who comes illegally to Slovenia, all thousands of 963 euros per month of expenses, and for veteran wars for Slovenia there is no solution for staying in the apartment that suits him. Ladies and gentlemen, there is not only something very wrong here, but this, excuse me, is already a mockery for all of us who have created this country. All those involved ask yourself what you are really doing. For Ahmad Shamieh, an illegal migrant, this country has spent 21 months as much as it is here, and a little more is already — according to the official findings of the Court of Auditors — the cost of each illegal migrant costing this country every month EUR 963 million, taking into account the additional costs incurred after being rejected first in legal and then in judicial proceedings at all instances — about EUR 50 000. For 50,000 euros, we could have already donated a veteran's apartment for the war on Slovenia. But the Government of the Republic of Slovenia meets for Ahmad Shamieh and explores the possibility of keeping him in Slovenia because he has been so well integrated. I'd like to know where and what. This is extremely inappropriate in the light of the fact that we are talking, on the other hand, about someone who helped create this country, who was defending it with a weapon that exposed his health and life to that country. That's where the government doesn't meet. But there is a problem of finding an appropriate solution, and when we offer it, it is now out of political prestige, because that is what this is all about, and they are already finding options to reject this law. The same law as the amendments proposed by the SDS are more than appropriate and solve these problems in an appropriate manner. If anyone wants a wider solution, of course, there is enough time and space to do so at any time later. But today and here it is the responsibility of all of us in the National Assembly, in the Slovenian Parliament, to show so much responsibility to the invaders, to those who created this country, to defend it with weapons, to win the war for Slovenia, and unfortunately some have paid the highest price for it, so that at least we can enable those who are now in distress to find an appropriate solution. Later on, as you say, system solutions can be done and I don't know what else to do is enough time. But the responsibility for these people and the values on which Slovenia is founded must be demonstrated today by voting for this law because it is a good law because it is a law that solves the problem of life. If the law of prestige is rejected, because only out of prestige will it be rejected, then it will be a very sad testimony that the one with Ahmad Shamihe/Shami was not only a coincidence, but that it is a real policy that is unacceptable, which I reject, which is contrary to the values that are the basis of the independent state of Slovenia, which is contrary to what we once went to democratisation and then to independence at the time of the creation of the state of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u65	Thank you very much, mag. Branko Grimes. I would still ask you what the President asked us to do in the introduction to stick to the agenda. We can help someone in such a way that we do not harm someone else. Gradually, Mrs. Violeta Tomić, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u66	When colleague Gorenak made this proposal, he said he did not want the topic to be politicized, and then the same party allowed this impatient person to talk about migrants here, I don't know, 10 minutes. This is totally unacceptable, because the police will not be involved because of migrants, but because of the policies that have been wronged, the SDS, which has been in power twice. So if you want us to support this proposal that we intend to support, please, we stick to the darkness and do not spoil what we have already established as a good thing in this national assembly. Please don't allow impatience and hate speech here against any group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u67	Thank you very much, Mrs. Tomic. That was my purpose, too. I would really like to solve problems for those who need help, but not to cause additional concerns for those who have nothing to do with the agenda. Mag. Grimes, please, you have a procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. I propose, Mr President, that you have the same criteria for everything and that such provocations of a lady who likes painting so much, by the way, I would never do it, because I am painting exclusively for aesthetic reasons – to warn her that what she is doing is unacceptable. Because what I said at the beginning was a comparison. To compare the conduct of a country, a government, a policy when it comes to the question of people who participated in Slovenian independence and created this country and risked everything they had and, in the other case, someone who entered the country as an illegal migrant and then happened what it was. To talk about hurting someone, forgive — to whom? And the government that has the wrong policy, and the coalition, because it's pointing to the wrong policy? For if you may have thought of Mr Ahmad Shamieh, there can be no harm or benefit from such a debate, because the procedure for him, ladies and gentlemen, is legally completed and in the rule of law it is clear exactly what the follow-up procedure is. This is not about whether you harm someone or not, whether you respect the rule of law, whether you respect the Constitution, whether you respect the legislative decisions issued by the Ministry, or whether you are violating the Constitution and the law. That's all it really is. This comparison, ladies and gentlemen, will be in the eyes. This comparison of what we are deciding today tells us everything.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u69	We continue the debate. Mr. Marko Ferruga, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u70	Thank you for your word. A great acquaintance of Churchill, who then somehow adapts Lenin's sayings and who, from the previous experience of these partisans, the Germans have now moved on to migrants and Slovenes, things that are politicized, continue to revolve around some conflicts that are unnecessary. Today we are talking about how we can help in this matter. If we go back to the law on the amendments to the Law on Organizing and Working in the Police, we need to know again a few things that make it easier for us to talk. The first thing is that just the name of the office apartment says something. It says that the apartments are for employees who are active and who are doing their job. Another issue that is very important to know is that the MNZ manages a limited fund to be managed where possible. The third issue is that everyone who has signed a contract for office housing knows that sooner or later they will have to deal with their housing problems somehow. We can open up the subject of whether then the wages are suitable for buying apartments and so on and so forth, but the point is somewhere else. Here we have one particular problem, and what saddens me quite a bit is that the media and everyone has grabbed it together, and more importantly for me is that the Ministry of the Interior should solve it in a way or another. Here I may give, I shall say, an appeal that this matter is truly resolved constructively. But it is true what the Secretary of State said that there must be two for this, that we must accept compromises, both of them, and find some solutions, even for people who have really given something to Slovenia. But here is another fact to be pointed out. We have different housing statuses in our country. The MORS have the status of military housing, police housing has the status of office housing for the official needs of employees for the time of employment in the police. And then we have an MJU where the apartments for officials and public servants are in a working relationship. As I have already said in my position, it is once again my appeal that the fund of these dwellings be somehow merged and managed in a uniform manner and that such individual matters are then resolved. I am absolutely in favour of dealing with each case individually. This is absolutely a delicate topic that does not lead to any concrete solutions with these public ping-pongs. But there is something that, if this warning hadn't gone out, it probably wouldn't have moved on. I'm here in a very delicate situation, how to decide, given that I've been in the ranks of the police for some time. I am very much in favour of this matter being resolved in this way, because I know that a systematic solution will take some time, which is questionable in view of the near elections. Here I have my own personal opinion. Another issue that needs to be said is that partial solutions certainly raise new and new issues again, and this is once again a dilemma that I do not know if it can be resolved in this mandate. I hope so, but the problems we're dealing with right now, and the way things are going, I think they're hard to solve. The War Veterans Act is certainly one of the laws that should be better applied and enforced, probably also because I think that the Law on Organising and Working in the Police is not exactly the law that should be – but there is an interim solution to the systematic resolution of all this. Actually, I'm in a lot of trouble. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u71	The word has magic. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u72	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Once again a nice greeting, Secretary of State with a team, colleagues and colleagues! As usual, is it not sad that we are today discussing the housing problems of the 1991 veterans? All the roads go back that way, it's like in the middle. I think we're very close to this, if you're to blame for this failure for 27 years again by the SMC Task Force, not by the right or by the left. Excuse me, the left on my left is right, interesting. But what I wanted to say in the introduction is this. All the long-standing politicians of the National Assembly, according to my modest assessment of how to solve the problems of war veterans, have been fully tested. Why? As I said, after 27 years, with some concrete proposal for a very narrow law, it is a matter of changing the organisation and the work of the police, this problem is once again highlighted. From my point of view of modesty – I apologize to all veterans for even touching this issue – I would like to point out once again where you have been with this enthusiasm, how these people need to be resolved not for a certain period of time, but for an indefinite period of time, a lasting solution to their housing problem. Even in this case, policy is quite typical of political rhetoric regardless of internship, especially in the direction of demonstrating how big a concern it is. Where's the efficiency? The fact is, over the past 27 years, there have been many or many forms of political parties in power, and if they have achieved their purpose to save them, this would not again be highlighted today. That's a first. Secondly, today we are talking – I will stress twice – about the amendment of the Law on Organising and Working in the Police, where the topic is to solve housing problems within the police. I agree that because of the failure to resolve this area in 27 years, the types of categories that are more or less involved in this housing problem, regular police officers, retired police officers, disabled veterans, are not talking about the pain of family members who lost their partner who protected us, citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. This kind of debate is increasingly going in the direction that the rhetoric of the Members is simply and simply a reminder of the problems, especially if you are in the role of the opposition, because the Government, in today's case, is not doing anything at all. We were even labeled colourless days ago, and so on. Authorised political rhetoric, we accept, but in a specific matter I ask everyone who will certainly still speak for me, please literally touch only the subject of the amendment of this law in your content. I have a very serious problem here, especially because both the proposer and some Members followed him in their debates have raised in particular the question whether the representatives of the two unions, the president of the unions, are credible and credible in the procedures for representing their membership or non-membership, or if we can call them police. Here I refer mainly to the message on the website of both police unions, entitled Important Progress in Addressing the Problem of Office Housing. I haven't heard anything about when we're talking and we want to make a public impression on how concerned we are about police work, that they have conditions, for veterans and the like. And what's a little bit unusual on the website, I have to admit that I was surprised by the past not so much ago, because it's inside the police, because we know that there was some form of discontent, pay, working conditions and the like, and it also appeared in the public that they were not exactly unaware of how uniform. But look, in this case, you literally gave a message. What do you say? Let us also report this to the public, they have written that in relation to the proposal for such matters, the Government, in this case, is actively dealing with this issue, the specific department of department with the collaborators and trade unions. And it is written – that I will not waste time reading because you all have the opportunity to open and read this website – for the first time, that they strongly support the Government's efforts and proposals. I have to go a little bit to the proposer's side because he is not familiar, but the coalition parties are familiar with the letter from the Ministry of the Interior signed by Minister 8. 12. 2017, where we have been coalition partners together with both trade unions, if I say so, addressed, warned, also with some commitments, that this matter must be resolved very quickly in order to resolve this agony both of veterans and of the housing problem in the police sector. I have to admit, with a little more in-depth content, I don't have any dilemma at this point about the probability of that. In particular, because the Ministry of Interior, when I speak of the Ministry of the Interior, has in recent years really shown such a degree that, as a Member, I really trust their decisions and activities. To prove this, we recall the activity of the ministry’s leadership when the so-called refugee pain was a migrant wave. Let us recall this activity regarding the protection of the state border, not to mention the last reflection that was even slightly mocked, perhaps even in my own parliamentary group, on the message of the Minister of the Interior concerning the proposal for a criminal code. The fact is that it has put itself in the position of protecting human rights, and I have no doubt about this communication, nor in particular the communication supported by the Ministry's web pages signed by the two presidents of the union. If I go back to this message, I have one big problem. Are we Members entitled to criticise and question the credibility of the two presidents of the union? The only ones who can criticise the direction in which they operate are members, either non-members or members of the police themselves, but certainly not politicians of the National Assembly. It is easy to comment, but there is a high probability that what they wrote is not true — I think we are not competent and in some ways is underestimating to such residential organizations. In this context, there is another matter that I must admit is very unusual to me. I also ask the applicant the following questions. Whom – you who have tabled this bill that addresses us, who have also supported this proposal at the first or second reading – is this law directed to? To the groups of Members or to the proposed group of Members? In the first place, the cops. And if the police, the two unions they represent, clearly record that they do not agree and that the concrete proposal of the law does not fully address their biggest problems, and this is housing problems, this is a much more credible message to me as a Member of Parliament than some political activity to change the law. And as I said before, I have no doubt that there is some seriousness to this matter being resolved in an intensive manner within the Ministry of the Interior. I myself will be increasingly confident, and the more the policy is in dealing with specific cases, the more problems are. Therefore, I have no doubt that in a very short period of time we will be – in this case, if I understand correctly, already in January, a procedure has begun on this very subject, and I am pleased to announce the support of the biggest opposition party that they will really constructively help to move these matters significantly. For the end of the Solomon case. I was also very pleased when the Group of Members quickly responded to the good ten days ago, that we had called the parental committee very quickly, because one of the key issues at the time was, after some informal information, also the work of this officer. I can only repeat once again, it is a shame that after 27 years now the police officer wants to change legislation on his shoulders, while at the same time it is in some direction if there is some probability of police being written into something, let's say, excuse me, the harm of police officers who are in a regular working relationship. I am aware that these are acute situations, but the case of Solomon is, if I have understood the applicant correctly, since 1991. I believe the assignment wasn't ten years ago, but it was a veteran problem, and it was already there. So it's in some form of deceiving me is really an odd force. And once again, who do we accept as law changes? Certainly not for Members, certainly not for political parties, but for those who directly see and apply this law. And if it is a message from the Ministry of the Interior and a message from the unions that the proposed amendment does not give effect to what appears to be political rhetoric, then I, as a Member, have a very different view of such a decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u73	The text is given by the proposer. Can we wait for Mrs. Violeto Tomic? Mrs. Violeta Tomić, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u74	Thank you, Comrade Gorenak, for giving me your word, and I'll have one press release anyway. The fact is that policy has not done anything in the residential area for 25 years, since the time of the Jábinški Law, when the housing fund was sold out, no one has managed to get all the way to new housing. However, the fact is that, of course, this government is not to blame, but it has, in our opinion, completely wrong priorities. I'll tell you. The first thing that comes to mind is that a billion euros for NATO, for arms, is acceptable, and only 800,000 euros is for the housing fund. I wonder what's the priority, whether to invest in life or death. Because whatever you do, it's my weaponry to bring death. Then the government gave tax breaks to the richest, incentives for foreign, mostly dirty investments, then the MNZ, buying a water cannon that will be used against its own citizens, electric paralyzers and so on. Not to mention a wire that was very opaque and very expensively purchased, and we are now the country that is wired. We certainly do not get funds to raise money social assistance, to raise the minimum wage, to raise those lowest pensions and so on, but at the same time the housing fund builds some luxury apartments that no one in social distress can afford. 280 000 people in Slovenia live below the poverty line, which should be the priority of each government. And don't take it as an unconstructive criticism. It's bad enough that not only the pensioners and the unemployed, but even the full-time people can't survive the month. The consequences are day-to-day work and the worst part is that there are 150 euros in unpaid debt due to the circus. These measures are completely disproportionate and then we watch the horrendous footage of people clinging to and chaining to the candelabras of their homes. These people are then solely dependent on the help of their friends or some humanitarian organizations, for example, the Maribor Resistance prevented hundreds of operations. This is the task of the state, especially one which is considered social. This situation is totally unsustainable, and every time we propose concrete solutions in Levica to reduce these differences, to reduce poverty, we are rejected quickly. Also, the SDS is very rarely voting for our proposals, and colleague Gorenak, we do not support you in this proposal with any clumps in our throats, as you said at the outset, we fully calm conscience and cheerful heart support such good proposals. We also put forward a proposal to protect you from the assignments a while ago, and we didn't get your support back then, but okay. Today we're solving a specific case of police officers, it's about 30 war veterans of police officers retired, and they're just outside the office. This is an unacceptable attitude towards these people, because when they were young when they were employed, the service sent them to any end of Slovenia, where they were needed. They moved there with their families, and today, when they are retired or regrettably who even lost his life — as we said — they cannot give more than life — they become unnecessary. Look, it's seen as an unnecessary cost, it's seen as a consumer material, as long as it's useful, it's somehow allowed to work, when it's somehow not active anymore, but it's already on the side track. These are very sad cases, so we fully support and believe that by adopting this law we can immediately solve this problem. Then let the government look for these famous systemic solutions that you always promise, we always wait for them, but forgive us, we never wait for them, but people need to help now, this moment. And as I have already pointed out in my position, the Court of Auditors' audit reports show that there is plenty of room for these system solutions, of these empty apartments, which are quite a few, to these apartments offered for free use by some other people who are not entitled to these apartments. Young police families should come to these apartments. The Ministry does not even know whether the tenants are employed in the state administration, whether they own any other property suitable for residence or not. The adoption of this law will not threaten anyone today, but it will put the Ministry at risk of going to work, reviewing its property and distributing it in a fair manner, and it will have to be organised a little. For one such simple calculation – I am not really a great mathematician, but nevertheless – the non-profit rent in these police apartments is about EUR 165 per month, 12 months old and 26 years have passed since 1991, that is 312 months. So, 564 apartments, let's rent 150 euros to make it easier to calculate, and multiply by 312 months, 26 million 395 thousand 200 euros will come. Where did that rent money go? Do you know how many police apartments we could buy for these 26 million 395 thousand euros and so on? Let's just leave it to Jóbinsky's marriage to make the money go away. I understand we're saying, we're gonna sell this, and we're gonna have to fill an empty pension box or something, which is absolutely necessary, not sell it, sell the airport, rent it, and we don't know where it went. The rent money went somewhere, but we don't know where. I'll say one more thing. You say these police officers are not at risk – yes, they had a non-profit rent, specifically Mr. Solomon received 303.10 euros of rent in December. So he has to pay the economic rent. Where, I ask, did a pensioner who had been paid for the entire working time – and just yesterday we considered raising the minimum wage, not getting the support again, we were flatly rejected, pensions are miserable and are a long-term time bomb – who barely survives the month and lives in the cold, even if the apartment is paying the economic rent? These are the problems we have to address. As we say, Members of the Left will unanimously support this law and all amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u75	We have quite a few wishes to discuss. The first gets the word of Dr. Vinko Gorenak, representative of the proposer, followed by State Secretary Boštjan Šefic and Mrs Anja Bah Žibert. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u76	Thank you very much. I would like to thank Violet for her support before you leave, and I would like to add one more thing as an interest. You talked about how much they get, but people can imagine it easier if you go to one apartment. In the office apartment where I, the smallest in the state administration, has 19 square meters, the country has so far cashed 35,000 euros from me and from all predecessors. If you've been valorizing this since 1988, you'll get about 60,000 euros. So this apartment's already been paid by the tenants. So much for comparison. Actually, I stopped by about Mr. Verbic. “The unions are credible,” who says they are not? But I put this credibility on the line, membership decides, I don't, I've never been a member of this union, no one that we're on the clear. So I don't have any problem with that, I'm pointing out their views. “They are very supportive of the Government’s efforts.” You also said below that you support the systemic solutions proposed by the Minister. Tell me what they're like! Whether you, Mr. Verbic, or Mr. Secretary of State. Tell me what systemic solutions are, and tell me what the law we are discussing today is hampering systemic solutions. If we provide veterans, disabled people and relatives at the work of murdered police officers today so they can stay inside, how does this hinder systemic solutions? The system solutions will be better than ours. Won't they be better? I guess they'll be better than ours. It is said that what we propose today will be upgraded with even better police solutions. Then why do you object? But I don't believe in these systemic and better solutions. Why don't I believe it? Because you can see that the coalition creaks like a 200-year-old lottery wagon and the question of which bike will fall off and you will be wiped out. That's A. And B – it's time pressure. You can't get this through Parliament by April. See, that's a problem. You say, the commitment to get rid of them. You see, these are unions, I have to say, there's nothing else to say that they've fallen for. Now they have fallen like those — what was that ship there on the Italian coast? They've gone out of their way, and they've come up with such systemic solutions that they won't because they're impossible to accept. That was a comment, Mr Verbic, it was not a criticism of trade unions. You say we can comment, that was a comment. You're telling me who the law is for. It is intended for three categories of police officers – disabled persons, veterans and relatives killed. That's clear. You're saying that marriage goes to the detriment of active police officers. If we look like a fiyakar horse, you know the one that has those blacks up here? [[shows with gesture]] , which sees only ahead, sees not left and right, this is true because 30 apartments or how many, otherwise, young police officers will be kept by veterans and these categories of people. In that context, yes. If you sell 60 or 80 – you will say how many, I don't know – apartments you have in Slovenia and buy apartments in Ljubljana, there will be no problem. For veterans or these categories of police officers, however, if you devote another factor to any of the billions that the country has raised more to the state budget, just a factor, then you can buy 30 apartments each year. After all, you will buy them for the people who built this country. These are the fathers of this country. And that's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u77	We got a replica, mag. Verbich has the advantage. Here you go, mag. Verbich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u78	I'm sorry. I'm gonna try not to abuse her, as usual. I know I have these three minutes. It is precisely because of the honourable Member with whom the real dialogue is in a certain direction that I should respond immediately. First, when he asked me how I could claim or believe the leadership of the police at the head of the minister that, in this short time, I should repeat the activities of the last year and a half or two with real commitment and decisions that even deviate from maybe all the governments so far when a certain minister allows himself to represent the positions of his own department, in particular in the direction of what is expected of the citizens. I have no doubt, in this case, as I mentioned in the introduction, I come from a report you simply did not see, and you cannot know that either. That made my message very clear. I'll still read some of what's written down. I believe that both police unions have accepted this and have written it down with some credibility. What's it written down? “The Ministry of the Interior may undertake to prepare within 10 days a concrete proposal for an article, in cooperation with the two veteran associations, the Union of Veterans of the War on Slovenia and the North Association, which will address the housing problem for veterans.” I would like to stress once again that it is sad for all veterans that it is only now in this composition of the police leadership that this will begin to be resolved by them, and I have no doubt that it will be resolved. I will allow myself to make one proposal, the Secretary of State – in this regard we have also had a debate with a concrete proposal, given that in other areas I am also quite critical of my own government – how very simple it would be for the Government to assume that in this case, something will certainly have to happen to this so-called real estate or the management of housing units for the police, if I say so, a concrete proposal to you, the Secretary of State, is that the former object, which is very close to Beethoven, which has been empty for several years now – I do not understand why within the Government of this facility simply does not take it back to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, is simply sold and instead purchases at least ten residential units in Ljubljana. The answer is how — very quickly. However, I expect that, next month, in January, activities will indeed take place within the management of the Ministry of the Interior to resolve these matters. Just for the end. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] I'm sorry. The legislative and legal service also warned the applicant that there was a systemic and not inside problem for war veterans. I think I understand that. That's it. Thanks for understanding.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u79	Thanks, mag. Verbich. You have exceeded three minutes, but you have the opportunity to apply for the discussion below. The Secretary of State has the floor, followed by Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, and we will then re-energise the opportunity to report to the debate. Boštjan Šefic, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am aware that the Government is always in a position, especially when such sensitive issues are resolved that it is responsible for everything. And she's guilty of not getting rid of 25 years of not treating the apartment the way it should have been, and so on. But that's part of what it means to be part of the government. It is more complicated for us to be aware of the importance of saving active police officers so that we can provide them with adequate conditions to give them conditions for normal work, so that, after all, this profession is as attractive as possible, which is why we now have problems. And on the other hand, even those who have been in the ranks of the police for decades are being helped to the greatest extent possible in their lives or their existential issues. Here the search for these solutions is sometimes a little more complicated than it seems at first sight. Of course, everyone is looking at their own point of view, we have the whole picture, and within this picture we need to find the right solution. I am also aware of the great trap placed by the honourable Member Dr. Gorenak. If I start to represent some partial solutions that we see in the ministry about how to save veterans – especially veterans – because this part is the most demanding – we will be criticised by veterans to submit some proposals to Parliament without their consent, on the other hand, the criticism of trade unions, if I do not say so, will be criticized by you, and this is also one of these unfavourable situations. We see more solutions in the various funds, housing, finance and some others that we can design for the purposes of solving truly those cases that are necessary for solving the existing issues. In this way we can solve these problems not only for those we see right now, but for all those who are still coming and will be coming in the coming years. We are therefore saying that we can shape things relatively quickly. I've already said that if such options are given, we'll convene this meeting tomorrow and start a conversation. This is also the Minister's letter to both veterans and trade unions, to the coalition's parliamentary groups that bear, we are aware, the greatest responsibility in this, proposed. As far as the housing fund is concerned, I hope to say that the Ministry of Internal Affairs is good at managing, of course there are also some other weaknesses that we ourselves are doing all the time and which – I do not apologize to the past, but still – we have inherited them. All the funds we receive from rents are put either in maintenance or in purchases, so in 2019 we will be able to purchase certain apartments to cover large discounts where it is most problematic, and so we will continue to sell those apartments that we do not need. Unserious claims such as those made by honourable Member Violet Tomić mentioned that we do not know who is where and what is there, and this is false, incorrect and I also take it in some way as a very incorrect statement on her part. Of course, there's a lot of concern about veterans. In 2006, the possibility of obtaining an indefinite contract was abolished and could not be changed in 2012 or 2013. Of course, for the same reasons as we have today, the problem is exactly the same. That's why I think this argument that we don't have a sense and so on, is incorrect. I've already said that we haven't thrown anyone out of any apartment, not before. All these activities are going, once again I stress if there will be cooperation on all sides, even in the direction that it will never be. The union's positions are primarily aimed at clearly identifying the beneficiaries of these, under what conditions, criteria, so that we do not create new problems and that everyone will be treated equally, including those who have provided themselves with an apartment that has taken large loans, which will be repaid even when they are retired. Solutions must be found for them, too, and they may be in social distress. I find it incorrect to claim that we were offering bad apartments. That's not true. That's not true. Even so, one of the apartments on a substantially lower floor, as the current user has this moment, was more favourable, less difficult to access and so on. Then the apartment was also dedicated, and someone else gladly accepted it because it was a mildly rejected option. The rest of the apartments offered were also rejected. Both our veterans and former police officers, who may not have the status of veterans, as our police officers have done and perform extremely difficult tasks today, so there is no difference between me. Police officers are also now carrying out key tasks for national security and for this country, as some of us have done decades ago, and I am sure they will be in the future. That is why we owe it to everyone to ensure adequate living conditions. What we say is that this moment is not the best approach, and we offer the next, fast – and that to be carried out if it is will. I said that we also want cooperation here, and I am glad that this will exists. I absolutely agree that this topic cannot and must not be any prestige, not by the Government or by Members or anyone else. Of course, this problem has been delayed, pushed both on the side of the tenants and on the principle of how, once it will be resolved, and now we have come to the point where we have to deal with it. Of course, it now turns out that this government and this ministry do not want to regulate it – on the contrary, this ministry, this minister, has changed the rules to go hand in hand and allow for sufficient room of manoeuvre, we have given the initiative to be a moratorium on these matters so that we can regulate them peacefully and consistently. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u81	Dr. Vinko Gorenak, representative of the proposer, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u82	Thank you very much. One more time. Secretary of State, what are the solutions you offer on 31 January? If you are disturbed by criticism by either veterans or us or trade unions, I suggest that the chairman close the meeting for the public and that the Secretary of State offer solutions. So once again, for God's sake, tell me only two things in which the law hinders you so that you can't propose a better solution on January 31st, and tell me what better solutions are. I've called Mr Verbic, I've called the Secretary of State, I don't have an answer. So what are the better solutions? And that you offered Solomon another apartment – of course, for one year. Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u83	Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u84	Thank you, Chairman. I'm going to answer some questions, too, and I'm going to answer some questions. In other words, it was said that the media had seized this story. Comrade Ferlug, thank God. I wouldn't know about her personally. I wouldn't know about her personally, but I know today that this story isn't so short. Now I return to the Secretary of State – where are the systemic solutions? On the one hand, the Secretary of State, you said that you should do it very quickly, and on the other hand, you said, "We are aware of the traps, we know that there will be problems with veterans, unions, opposition," and so on, that there will be harmonisation of this. Isn't there gonna be no problem with veterans now? Why wouldn't there be? You already know there won't be any? Today there has been so much talk about unions as never before in this national council about police officers. Suddenly, these unions have become the most important element of this country in this area. Now I ask Mr Verbic – how many times did you come to your attention when they raised the voice of the Slovenian Army trade union and the various solutions proposed? I didn't hear that. And now I'm returning the question to you, you said: “Who is this law prepared for? For politics, for political parties?" Tell me who the Law on Community Financing was proposed for. For SMC? For political parties? Because the entire public concerned was against it. Then who was this marriage prepared for? If he was for the congregations, then he should never have been accepted because he was against them. We even had a veto in the National Assembly. So I think that's a completely unnecessary question. But I don't agree with you, because too integrated, you said, you assume that the law is ready for the cops. The law is ready for those who are now police officers, and in the evening they no longer return home safe. That's one segment. They become disabled because of their work obligations. First category invalids. Worse, they never come home again. They're active today. They're gone tonight. That's what happens. Of course, the law also covers those who actively and directly helped to raise the Slovenian flag there on the market and defend it. I cannot agree that we are always talking about some systemic solutions. I can't agree, because sometimes it's not the time for words like that, and today is not the time. Today's not the time. If there is a systemic solution, God willing, yes, then it will be just one additional interim solution. But let it be, let's give these people hope. The answer to a systemic solution gives them no hope today. Previously, on the very clear question of Vinko Gorenak, what are the concrete solutions, Mr Verbic explained that one building on Beethoven should be sold here. It's not a systemic solution. This is only the way to make this concrete, which is now proposed in this law, so of course we do not interfere with those who are active police officers in obtaining housing. This solution, however, is entirely in such a case. Of course, it is necessary to sell the building, and there is probably another apartment that is ineffective and represents only a cost, because maintenance has to be paid, even if the apartment is empty. But, Your Honor, look how irrationally we spend our money. In Lendava there were empty tents for so-called migrants, a migrant wave, a year and a half, and we were costing more than a thousand euros a day. There's four apartments in here. Today, a specific veteran, a policeman, a disabled first category, someone who literally has kidney failure could only deal with his health and how he will continue his life and not where he will live tomorrow. But that's how you spend your money. Now you're just looking around here, whether we support or not. I really don't understand the change, given the debate on the parental committee. The situation has not changed completely into anything. Even then, the minister promised systemic solutions, and today, suddenly, concerns. No, it's not about sticking political points. If so, then you, the biggest political party, ask, what then was the meeting of the President of the National Assembly, Dr. Brglez, with the son of the veteran and the disabled. What, then, is the gathering of political points? Is it that someone is proposing specific solutions, or that you're going to talk? I don't mind that the president of the National Assembly went to talk, and I welcome that, but don't talk about it going to someone who has drafted the law – in a specific case, Dr. Vinko Gorenak, our colleague who has actually been dealing with this topic for years, he knows it, he's been discussing it almost always in this area, he's made a concrete proposal, so I think it's really very low what it's about – it's a political gathering of points. I really do not want this kind of debate in these specific cases. But I want to know what really hurts you in here because it really is a simple solution. If we have a problem with active police officers, it is safe to conclude an agreement between ministries, it is also necessary to examine what has been said that some of them have rented apartments and that they do not live in them at all, because they have a problem in themselves, and so on and so forth. But let's leave it, that's another story. I'm sure there's not that many of these cops, thank God, I'll say it again. Because, as it is said, it is a category one disability, it is a case of death in the performance of the tasks and it is a veteran. I know that this can not only be adopted by this law and resolved, but it can also be found compensation if the needs of new police officers arise in this case. But, you know, the difference is that those guys need a solution right now, about all the new cops, and that's what the board minister said, and that's what's expected to happen in a few years. That's what she said, a year or more, two years. You can look at the magnetogram. She didn't say the problem would come overnight. But here we're talking about problems overnight. And by then, we can certainly find a suitable solution, comprehensively, if you want, and especially financially for purchasing additional capacities, so that young police and police officers can also have the opportunity to use service apartments, but let us not give them the chance that in case of disability or death they will literally be put on the road because they must be in accordance with the law. They have a one-year extension, and we have discussed it, but in principle they need to settle it in the long run. The one who becomes disabled, forget that he can buy an apartment. If an active police officer can't afford it, then let's forget that the person who becomes disabled in the night can buy it, or when the family loses a family member, even less! That's less. But it's true that here we can ask ourselves where we came from, that you're a cop after not knowing how many years of life he can't buy an apartment, what his basic salary is, and what his credit skills are. But that's another topic again. Today, we have two articles in front of us that solve specific cases. You said we couldn't adopt legislation for specific cases. We're already in this national council. Remember the Somali girl, remember the foreign athlete. Of course you do. But here we are talking about our citizens, respectable. Those who have paid taxes to this country before yesterday, who have left it with health or a lifetime of life. I'm here to join a colleague so I can look very carefully at who can push the counter button. This is not about political overreaction, nor is it about muscle tension, as far as political parties are concerned, but it is actually about the note of humanity. We're gonna solve this case! Last but not least, we should all be proud to leave this hall, for we will say that we have solved a specific case that we probably did not know about here or most of us. When he reverberated in public, we came to this problem or the subject began to unfold and we saw that he did not have such a short beard. Let us show this public that we can also solve specific cases. Then we sometimes wonder why the National Assembly has such a low level of appreciation between citizens and citizens. It's no wonder if we can't even get together and save him on a case-by-case basis. And even if there is a better proposal, I am not against a better proposal, I welcome it in advance, but this moment is the best, because we have no better. It was said that unions were not taken into account. Your Honor, why didn't you table the amendments? As the largest coalition party, you have every possibility that this will then be accepted. The unions offered the amendments, why you didn't adopt them, why no one was stopping you here. Now you tell us why we don’t listen to unions — do you listen to them? If you haven't summarized the amendments, then you don't listen to them either, just in the part where it suits you. And I'm saying the unions want a lot more. I think they want too much in the given situation, but this is their role in some way, depending on membership and active police officers, probably active police officers more than those who are retired, and so on. But let's just leave all this shit alone. Every citizen of this country, if he has a hint of conscience and he can help something, here's the proposal. It's the only thing we've got today. It's the best moment we've got. What will happen after the new year – forgive me, God forbid you can prepare until then, I doubt that. I doubt it. So let us resolve the situation today, then see what a new marriage will bring, and by then these people will sleep peacefully. They will sleep peacefully with the roof over their head, which they deserve, for which they have given their health or even their whole life. And no cheating, really, no cheating. I don't think there's any need for any more debates because it's some kind of rubber pull. The matter is very simple – are we to solve the problem of veterans of war for Slovenia to put them where they deserve to be, to save the position of those who have lost their property because they were doing their job at work, are we to save the position of those who have lost their health overnight because they were doing their job for this country? We are or we are not, that's all it is. That's all that's possible, yes or no. We don't have another moment. We don't have a better solution, we don't have a system solution, we don't have an alternative. But you had the opportunity to make an amendment to the unions, but you didn't. This is now your business, we have proposed ours, as we promised on the committee, and therefore I really hope that you will support this proposal as you did on the committee. We have kept our promise, we have amended the law, as it has been said, but it is up to you whether you will keep your word in the sense that you will vote in the same way that you voted on the parental committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u85	Colleagues and colleagues, as I see there is still an interest in the debate, I invite you to apply. And before that, there's a replica. Mag. Verbich, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u86	Thank you very much again. I need to replicate certain comments and statements from my esteemed colleague, Anja Bah Žibert. Why didn't I call back when the military union was in trouble? I am not a member of the Defence Committee, I am a member of the Home Affairs Committee, and I am making a decision in my conscience, even for the good of it, if I may say so, as I immediately called the meeting on this very subject. All the time, the word revolves around war veterans, I reiterate, a respected long-standing parliamentary group, since 1991, you have fallen across the line of exams because it is only after 27 years that the problem of both police and war veterans is being raised. Not to blurt out and now to stress that we who speak and who want to solve these things are the culprits for their status as they are. The Secretary of State made it very clear, none of the categories – honourable Member, obviously you did not listen to me in the introductory debate, when I mentioned the problem, and I specifically listed the groups, not only the regular police, who are directly tanned with these unfortunate housing units. I have taken all the categories, the fact is that this moment the Ministry of the Interior is really in some unappreciative role, but once again the focus of the debate revolves around war veterans. We are all aware, and if the right will were in the National Assembly and the right decisions were made, we would not be able to touch today after 27 years that someone could be threatened in their housing unit. Shame! And it's a shame to talk about it in any way. Hypocrisy in this National Assembly, you have commented on why we have not tabled an amendment on what both unions have proposed. Please, if you address this to all the parliamentary groups, not me, even if I wanted to, the question is, if I could, but now it's not the thing about it, it's just hypocrisy. We were all familiar with union proposals in one way or another, but if it didn't happen, it didn't happen. However, this does not mean that such discussions are going in a direction that they really do not want to move this thing. Finally. I also welcome this amendment of the law as well as today's debate. The only way to prove that this kind of debate helps to solve individual problems – I suppose, and if I have understood the Secretary of State correctly, when that officer by name was mentioned many times today, I am sure that the assignment will not take place. That means we've already moved something. As far as systemic solutions are concerned, as far as I know, all actors must also be involved in moving things, not by political rhetoric. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u87	Thank you. If there's any interest, I'll invite you again every time to sign up for the debate. I'm going to do it this time, and I'm asking you to really use the replica for what it's meant for. I'm inviting you to sign up. The application shall be made. The first one gets the word, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! So well and so unitedly we were shown last week before this meeting of the National Assembly at the College of the President of the National Assembly, when I replaced the leader of the New Slovenia Group and we were all united and even sympathetic to solving this problem that we now know, and we unitedly decided that this law should be dealt with in a reduced procedure. I would also like to thank the President of the labour force for calling the meeting on Monday morning and for the matter moving forward. First of all, we need to be clear that, however, the opposition group, as well as the coalition parliamentary group, is virtually unable, unable, unable to introduce a system law, because it cannot carry out interdepartmental coordination and talks with all stakeholders, sometimes even economic and social partners, and so on, as you have told us, New Slovenia, at the first point of today's meeting of the National Assembly. You're saying our Health and Health Insurance Act isn't in line with the social partners. See, this cannot be done by the Member and the Group of Members. Today, this law solves the specific problem of people, people; because it is not only Mr. Solomon who has about 30 of them, as I read them. The government has plenty of time and more knowledge, resources and so on to prepare, for my sake, a systemic solution, if this is a problem now, that this solution is not systemic. But let's get this problem resolved quickly today. I am talking about the fact that we agreed that all representatives of the parliamentary groups at the College of the President of the National Assembly that the law should take place should be dealt with in a reduced manner, because we understood that the decision-making time here is also extremely important. Here at this point, allow me to think of the conversation I had with the former senator of the Slovenian family, this is Mr James Oberstar, in 2014, he died, he was chairman of the Senate Transport Committee in this parliamentary, I would say, a dinosaur like the American Congress. Ladies and gentlemen, in 48 hours in both homes, the problem was solved because a bridge had collapsed and a few million dollars had to be provided to build this bridge. They solved the case in 48 hours! I'm sure it wasn't a systemic solution. Let's do a little bit of this systemic and we're here to work for people and solve problems. [[…]] That's why we're here. And once again, this law is not written to ad persons. The case of a police officer, Mr Solomon, is not a lonely case, there are several ten of them, as I have said. But then, of course, we, New Slovenia, will be happy to participate in the government system law. Here, on behalf of New Slovenia, I appeal again to the Government to make such comprehensive, so systemic, solutions, however, accepted as soon as possible and bring them to the National Assembly. I'm gonna tap for how long it's gonna take for us to get this complete solution. But at this moment, at this reading and even at a number of others, I don't want to get in touch, and this time I'm going to point it out – you know, respected colleagues and colleagues, sometimes I also think that we have simply forgotten the values of Slovenian independence. I'm not the kind to make some lists, who's more deserving, who's less deserving. Do you know who deserves it? It was the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who deserved to go to the elections on 8 April 1990, the first free after many years, who elected a three-house assembly, delegates and, consequently, the government that carried out the project of independence. And all those who went to plebiscite on December 23, 1990 are deserving. I don't make any difference. We are all conquerors, all those who had election rights at the time and went to voters and to plebiscite. In the history of the Slovenian people, the independence, justification and emergence of their own statehood is a unique, epochal and unrepeatable act. I would not like to be ashamed of this, and I would like to put this on the altar of Slovenian history. We don't talk about that much. We don't have enough of these values to raise our young people, and we don't talk about it in schools. Take a look at the senior issues when the questions about Slovenia's independence first arose. You'll be appalled. Despite the fact that many historical circumstances and the efforts of the type of people have fostered this independence, its practical exploitation took place in the late 1980s and early 1990s in the European Spring of the Nations. And it was the result of completely direct and clearly articulated efforts and efforts, I repeat, of many people, many, not individuals. The involvement of these people was determined, whether at the cultural level, at the political level, at the security level, at the military level, at the diplomatic level, at any economic or economic level, without their work, taking over, exposing, risks and efforts of Slovenia today would not be an independent and internationally recognised state. This is primarily what we must protect in this temple of democracy as a sanctuary. You know our position, New Slovenia will support the proposed amendment and we will also support the proposed legal solution written by colleagues and colleagues in the SDS. But I really wish as soon as possible, because of me this year, there's a comprehensive solution that you're predicting. We'll be happy to cooperate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u89	Mr. Marjan Dolinšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u90	Thank you, Chairman. I have to say, in part, it grieves me that we need to talk about these things today. Why? As a war veteran alone, it's sad that we're opening up such a subject today. [[…]] 26 years in this independent country, all governments in a row – where was the relation to Slovenian war veterans? He wasn't there. And he's not here. He's not here. I expect that citizens, citizens who were then, at the time when the arms would be used to defend self-sustaining efforts, decisions like this [[shows with gesture]] It's sad. It's really sad. [[…]] I would not like to comment on this particular case, which is why I have begun to do so. We're talking about war veterans. We're not just talking about war veterans. We know we have the War Veterans Act, who has the status of a war veteran. We know. Let's start talking, not just talking, let's give war veterans, all of us who we are, finally some recognition. Is it true that this war was too short? No thanks today. It's not right. It's not right. They wouldn't be sitting here today, and they wouldn't be sitting here, but they'd be smart. Where was anyone in 1991? I expect all those of us who have certain functions today to finally get a little sober and take care of the veterans of war. For war veterans, they don't look back – I'm talking about the status of a war veteran, who has status. It's really sad. Let's go to America and see what it's like to be a veteran! And today, a little more, and it'll be blasphemous if you say so, but I'm a war veteran. Where did we come from? I believe the effort has been made. We have a marriage before us, whoever proposed it, let anyone. I'd say I wouldn't support him at some point, but we have to work things out. 26 years old, who's dealt with this stuff? Nobody. Obviously no one else would have been on the table for this bill today. No offense, I said before, a few governments that have evolved, no one has taken this mother seriously. I appeal, not only appeal, I demand as a war veteran on behalf of the war veterans of the Republic of Slovenia, a union of all veterans to join the systematic resolution of the problem of war veterans. If we didn't deserve it, then I don't know what. I believe that my speech will also have its place. In the near future, I wish we could cheer up all the veterans of war with systemic solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u91	Anya Bah Žibert has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u92	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm responding to a previous replica that wasn't a replica in some part. I greatly appreciate Mr Verbič, in principle I always listen to him and also thank him for the proper leadership of the Home Affairs Committee, public administration and local self-government. But look, you've been telling me why I'm exposing the unions or their summary, the amendments to you. Because you mentioned them because you started the debate on how you see the biggest problem in the fact that this law does not have support in the unions and why it does not have it and so on. I just said that they have submitted their amendments, and if they wanted to follow the unions, you would probably solve this marriage problem with these amendments as the unions see it. We don't think that this moment is going to work in this respect, but if you think that yes, you could do it. However, we have proposed concrete solutions to the specific situation. Once again, it is not true that we exposed only veteran wars to Slovenia. We exposed them, but we also talked about cops. I've told you a few times about how a cop can travel, which is far more dangerous than any other profession. Neither did you answer my question why you were not more loud — I do not know how you voted — when it came to the Law on the Financing of the Communities. No one supported him, but no congregation association was intended for the congregations. So they're opposed by local communities, they're opposed by the public concerned, they're vetoed, and this was our home committee. So we can't have double standards. If we don't have a solution, let's just say why not. I hope it's not a problem for you that he's saving the laws of war veterans for Slovenia. No matter who did nothing, I'm not reading anything to anyone today, but I'm going to read to all those who won't support this law, and that's what I'm going to do.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u93	Thank you very much. In spite of the announcement of the Group of the Modern Centre Party, I give the floor to Dr. Vinko Gorenak. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u94	This time from a non-proposer quota [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, okay. After such a long time of discussion, I still have no answer. Four, please, what are the systemic solutions? Why would our marriage interfere with systemic solutions? I believe that systemic solutions are better, fairer and involve more police officers. So why would our marriage, which is more like a dig, interfere with systemic solutions? I don't have that answer after a few hours of discussion here today. That's not the answer here today. I sometimes agree with the Home Secretary, she's hit a lot on the table, like I'm not going to say who, but this time you're burned, Secretary of State. I don't have any problems with you either, and there's a lot of things going on there in 2015, because we know how. It could have been different in this country if you didn't have exercise in your hands. But today, tell me what are the systemic solutions and why this marriage is a problem. If you don't have an answer to that question, then unfortunately, you can't refer to the fact that you have trade unions there, and the veterans don't know what they're fighting about. [[…]] You close the press session and tell me what it is, and I'll be very happy to say nothing to the papers. But tell us what systemic solutions are. But I am pleased with one thing, we are now going towards the end of the debate and look, we are also sharp on our part, and perhaps unjustifiable, because all that part of it will support the law, has been said. And again, thank you so much for everyone. Despite the fact that we are politically at times extremely opposed to each other. If this piece supports it, you can all go against it and you're burned. It's fine, too. But I have a feeling that you — some of you — have been listening to Dolinsk before and Mr Ferlug, and so on, I feel that the law — is that you will be the one against the lonely specimens. Since the information is public, I will publicly draw you down, that's clear as day. I'll do it in capital letters, maybe like Ahmed. But that's how it is. Given that there was also talk about the amendments proposed by the union, the union sent us that letter, just as I'm sitting here. If anyone wanted to make those amendments, they'd be laughing at him. Even from the moon, if they were watching, they would cluck, because it's impossible to invest them in the National Assembly. That's impossible. They want the Jazbinski marriage for all police officers — yes, who can accept it in this country, in the State Dent? Neither of us. And now these systemic changes relate to the fact that the Secretary of State or Minister will go through the law. Come on! You can't go through a marriage like that. You could have put them in, whoever you wanted, those amendments, but no one put them in. Why didn't he file them? Because they're impossible because they're unreal. But since we're going to the end, I'm going to say a few more words in the sense that Dolinšek started. In this country, we have priorities placed on our heads. If one family functioned as well as our country does, it would go to "cufus", as we are on our way to "cufus", if so. Why am I talking about having our priorities wrong? Once again, so that the left part of Parliament does not jump on the eyelashes, as it sometimes does, I will not criticize the status and will not criticize what is being given to the fighters, even though I have a few problems with this, but we do have such legislation. Let's stop. And here are the veteran associations that should do something, because it's not just one thing, because it's not just the police, but there's just one series competing with each other, which will be more left-wing, leadership, I apologize, leadership, leadership at state level, not cops, not soldiers, not officers and so on and so on. Those, I think they've done their job and they need to be bowed down. I judge myself among the veterans that there will be no harm. As long as we have this relationship, as long as we're building a relationship, if 1945 is the foundation for 1991 and the independent state, we're a fertilist. The State of the Republic of Slovenia was co-established by veterans. In fact, they represent the father of this country. Go to Catalonia, go somewhere else, to Palestine, go see another nation in the world. The Catalonians declared independence. And where did they go? There's no force to protect it. They don't have the strength to protect it. Slovenia planned to do what it did in 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 and so on and so on. And the fact that this country was created and maintained, which many did not believe, is due to the policy of the time, yes, but in this Chamber a decision on independence could be made five times or ten times if there were no armed force at the back to do so. How many nations in this world have already adopted certain conclusions on independence and I do not know what all but never had a country. Because of a key mistake — there was no force in the back to protect it. We had this in 1991, and ladies and gentlemen, by this country it is unfair, irresponsible that many of them today live with 200, 300, 400, 500 euros, those with 600 euros of pensions are already so happy. What exactly would a person expect from the political composition of Parliament, and above all from the leaders of veteran associations? We're talking about leadership, once again, that there's not gonna be anything wrong at the state level. I would expect this to be voiced loudly and clearly, if all veterans are to come before Parliament there too, I hope, with only one request – an equation with those of 1945. And that's the least of it. That's the least of it. And then no one's gonna live with 300, 400, 500 Euros. But this country has to set the criteria and say, the veteran's pension is being upgraded to the amount of XY because he was a veteran. And nothing else. But that's not what we're talking about in this country. Go see the Ministry of Labour how they share that money there. Who gets it the most? Why don't the most veterans get it in 1991, but someone else gets it the most? Unfair, irresponsible or shameful. Not to mention this law, which, of course, saves only a trifle. Just a little something that really needs to be upgraded, I agree, but let me upgrade it. Nobody's bothering you. I'll be right in, with both hands. Thank you for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u95	Colleagues, colleagues, anyone else want to discuss this? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 3a and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 28th item of the agenda. This also interrupts the 7th item of the agenda. We're moving to 14. At the end of the day, this is a second defensively proposed law on the multiple value of real estate under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Tiln Bozic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u96	Dear President, honourable Members, honourable Members! Thank you for the word and opportunity to introduce to you in a few minutes the proposal for a law on the mass valuation of properties, which you also have on your table today. As has already been detailed in previous presentations, the mass evaluation was already regulated by law in 2006. In 10 years of implementation, Slovenia has succeeded in creating a system that is internationally recognised and cited as an example of good practice. The general real estate market values have been made available to the public in the Real Estate Register since the end of 2011 and are also regularly updated according to market developments. On the basis of the current law, the following year should be checked and, where appropriate, re-defined evaluation models, and a new evaluation cycle should be carried out to ensure that the supply and demand of the real estate market is re-tracked. So what's the new marriage for? To remedy the shortcomings raised by the Constitutional Court, there are many good solutions and advantages that it brings to the owners of real estate. More on this in the future. As has been repeatedly highlighted, mass valuation does not decide on rights and obligations or imposes a burden on real estate owners, as the aim of the Law on mass valuation is simply to create a safe and reliable data on the value of real estate. The results of mass evaluation as an independent multi-purpose system are widely used, including for public purposes, and it is therefore important that all constitutional principles, including the right to object to general value, are satisfied by law. On the basis of the applicable law, applicants for the allocation of funds in the exercise of public funds rights do not have the right to object to the general market value of immovable property, although this may have a significant impact on their situation. Among other things, the new law will allow them to lower or perhaps increase the overall value of their property by imposing special circumstances on their property. Thus, the new law provides a significant improvement in the legal basis for mass valuation so that the value of the new law can nevertheless be used for the tax purposes of real estate. It is no longer possible to close your eyes to the fact that the current state of property taxation with property tax and compensation for the use of building land and other taxes in terms of the legal security of property owners or taxpayers is poor. Legal grounds have been abolished and are only applied, and for reasons of marriage and other reasons, municipalities are often arbitral and sometimes a little too bold to set the criteria for dosage. The new Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estate provides the first firm step towards an appropriate legal basis so that the debate and decisions on the new system can be drawn up with sound and analytical support with the aim of the best and widely coordinated solution. The law lays down all the criteria of mass valuation in the law to such an extent that compliance with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is ensured while at the same time allowing for the dynamicness of the system, i.e. the possibility of continuous monitoring of changes in the real estate market in accordance with the legal basis. The law is designed as a standard for the mass valuation of properties in Slovenia. By ensuring that all real estates are valued according to the same criteria and that valuations are not adapted to individual uses, the principle of equality is respected while at the same time creating conditions for the broad multi-purpose use of these data in practice. Therefore, based on the experience gained so far, the recommendations of the professions and professional associations lay the groundwork for the modernisation of mass valuation and the introduction of procedures for the further integration and protection of property owners. The proposal for a new law on the mass valuation of immovable property responds to the concerns of the Constitutional Court, ensuring that the information on the general value of immovable property can be used for tax purposes in the future. In this connection, it is worth stressing that the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has been thorough and constructive, as well as an important contribution to the search for additional or improved solutions. The amendments addressed by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, as well as the amendments to be considered and discussed at today's meeting, address the concerns and findings of the Constitutional Court decision. Taking into account all the amendments to the coalition, the Ministry of Finance, the representatives of the legal profession who participated in the drafting of the law, as well as the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, will see the draft law in line with the provisions of the Constitution and the decision of the Constitutional Court. Given the tangible advantages of the new Real Estate Owners Act, and also the important constitutional upgrade of the legal rules in terms of possible future application, I propose that the law be supported. At the same time, I propose that a third hearing be held in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in the light of the conditions met in the course of this meeting. But for more details, I explained as usual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u97	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chair of the Committee of Mrs Urški Ban.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u98	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Nicely greeted! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is held at its 44th session. 11. 2017 as a parent working body, considered the proposal for a law on the mass valuation of property submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption. In addition to the proposal for a law, the Committee received the following materials: the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Commission of the State Economic, Crafts, Tourism and Finance Council, the opinion of certain local communities, and the letters of the Chamber of Engineering of Slovenia, the Association of Judicial Experts and Court Valuators of Slovenia for Construction, the Bank of Slovenia and the Chamber of Commerce. In accordance with Article 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendments to the individual article of the bill have been tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups. The Committee also received two proposals for amendments to the Committee of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Environment and Space, Legal and Legislative Services, Agricultural Forestry Chambers of Slovenia, Faculty of Economics, Union of Forest Owners of Slovenia, Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia participated. In the introductory supplementary explanation, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance explained the objectives and objectives of the bill as previously presented today. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service pointed out that many of their comments had been taken into account by the amendments tabled and further presented comments on the legal solutions that remained unresolved and could be disputed from the point of view of the Constitution. The representative of the Council of State presented the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance and said that the State Council supports the bill, highlighting the particular situation and the issue of the valuation of agricultural land and forests, where actual use often deviates from the destination of the land. The introductory presentations were also presented by invited representatives of various associations and chambers, where it was said that most of the draft legislation supports, except the Forest Owners' Union. At the same time, the representative of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber expressed disagreement mainly about the way agricultural land is evaluated, as they believe that a new obligation will arise for farm owners, which will not reflect the actual situation of agricultural land use. The majority considered that all debtors must be in an equal position, that real estate records should be regulated and updated and that a systematic approach is needed as the application of the NHRI is already outdated. It was said that it was very important to create a multifunctional data which would be as close as possible to the market value of real estate. In particular, the debate drew attention to the written opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service on the possible non-conformity of the bill with the Constitution, the implementation of the law proposal and the methods of valuation of real estate and the rights to the social situation of the debtors or owners of real estate. With regard to legal certainty, it was pointed out that a complaint to the estimated value was only viable at its own costs. Some members and members expressed support for the bill's proposal, as it is necessary to regulate and update real estate records. They pointed to the same treatment, since some NUSZ municipalities do not collect, which may also affect the development of municipalities. It was pointed out that the proposal for a law was the basis for the adoption of other laws and the cooperation of experts in the drafting of the law was welcomed. It was also pointed out that real estate owners have the possibility to use specific circumstances that may affect the real value of their real estate. The representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Geodetic Office responded to the questions raised and provided further clarifications. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee has considered and adopted the amendments tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups and the amendment of the Committee. He also accepted all the articles of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u99	Since the assembly held a general debate on the draft law at its 34th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are therefore moving on to a debate on the articles and amendments tabled, to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 12. 2017. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? Mr Tilen Bozič, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u100	Hello! I would just like to say that the Ministry of Finance supports the amendments tabled by the coalition MPs. That's all for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u101	Anybody else want to discuss this? Nobody. Then I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 6 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? No one, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 7 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? Nobody, I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 8 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. Then I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 28th item of the agenda. I'm putting an end to the 14th item of the agenda. We're moving on to 24. On the day-to-day basis, this is on the eve of a proposal for an agreement on the rules of the Fund for the Financing of Spartan Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia. On the basis of Article 11 of the Law on the Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia and Article 23 of the Decree establishing the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia, the Council of the Sport Foundation submitted the rules of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly. The Foundation's rules were treated by the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as a parent working body, which submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for a decision on consent to the rules of the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia. I congratulate you on your timely arrival, so I give the floor to the chairman of the committee, Dr Mirjam Bon Klanjšček.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u102	Thank you very much. We had the Parliamentary Club. At its 39th meeting on 29 November this year, the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth reviewed the Rules of the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia, submitted by the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia under Article 11 of the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia and Article 23 of the Decree on the Establishment of Foundations for the Financing of Sport Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia, in agreement with the National Assembly. The Legislative and Legal Service examined the Foundation's rules in terms of their compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the legislative technical aspects and did not comment on them. In its opening remarks, the representative of the proposed mags presented the rules. Katja Koren Miklavec. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Tomaž Boh, said that, after coordination with the Foundation and after reviewing the document, they had no comments on the rules. Without discussion, the Committee adopted a decision proposing to the National Assembly to give its consent to the Rules of the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia by 30. Ten. 2017. The draft decision is an integral part of the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u103	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is addressed to Mr Kamal Izidor Shaker.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u104	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Colleagues and colleagues, present and absent! Since the 24th and 25th points of this regular meeting of the National Assembly are substantively linked, I would like two views from the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre to be presented together. The Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in accordance with Article 5 of the Law on Sport realizes public interest in sport by providing funds for the implementation of the annual sport programme of the Foundation and by promoting and providing conditions for the performance and development of sports activities. The Foundation has, in fact, been an important distributor of public funds in the field of sport for many years, and its role is therefore negligible, as it has allocated millions of euro at the annual level, taking into account the structure and priorities identified in the National Sport Programme and its implementation plan. The adoption of the Foundation's this time rules and rules on co-financing of the implementation of the annual sport programme is a result of a new recently adopted and more than necessary Sports Act, which has also begun to be implemented in practice. The delays in the publication of a public invitation to tender for the financing of sports organisations in 2018 are objective in nature, since the new Sports Act was adopted following a regular legislative procedure, which of course takes time, and we do not know that we could adopt a law any different. Nevertheless, we are pleased that the preparation of the new rules and regulations has been carried out in constructive cooperation with all stakeholders involved, both with the government side and with the Slovenian Olympic Committee and the Slovenian Council of Experts for Sport. The role of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations is not and must not be underestimated, so it also gained its place within the new Sport Act. Let us recall that the 1998 Sports Act did not sufficiently regulate the distribution of public funds that the State, local communities and the Foundation are committed to achieving public interest in this area. In particular, it is important that the distribution process is much more transparent and efficient, since the establishment of a single system for the distribution of public funding is no longer left to the decisions of individual financiers. In view of the fact that the founding obligations on the Foundation are exercised by the National Assembly and that the Foundation must harmonise its internal acts in such a way that they are in accordance with the adopted Sports Act, the National Assembly today, as the legislator, gives its consent to the rules and regulations in question. For these reasons, both proposals for conclusions will be supported by the modern centre's Group of the Parties.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u105	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. On the proposal for a decision on agreement to the Foundation rules, we will decide, in accordance with the meeting's time frame, today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 28th item of the agenda. I'm breaking up with this 24th item of the agenda. We're moving on to 25. On the day-to-day basis, this is on the basis of a proposal for an agreement with the Rules of Procedure on the co-financing of the implementation of the annual programme of the Sport Fund for the financing of Spartan Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. On the basis of Article 11 of the Law on the Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia and Article 24 of the Decree establishing a Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia, the Council of the Sport Foundation submitted the Rules on the co-financing of the implementation of the annual Sports Programme of the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly. The Foundation Regulation considered the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as a parent working body, which submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for a decision on consent to the Regulation on the co-financing of the implementation of the annual sport programme of the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Dr Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Your Honor! At its 39th meeting on 29 November this year, the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth discussed the Regulation on co-financing the implementation of the annual Sport Programme of the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia, which was submitted by the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia pursuant to Article 11 of the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia and Article 24 of the Decree establishing the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia, in agreement with the National Assembly. The Legislative and Legal Service examined the Foundation's Rules of Procedure in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the legislative technical aspects and made comments to it. In its opening remarks, the representative of the proposed mags presented the rules. Katja Koren Miklavec. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Tomaž Boh, said that, after coordination with the Foundation and after reviewing the document, they had no comments on the Rules. In the debate, a member of the Committee welcomed the adoption of the Rules and commended the restrictive functioning of the Sports Foundation, since only 5% of the funds were used to operate. At the same time, he called on the Ministry to draw up a law allowing athletes more financial resources. At the end of the discussion, the Committee adopted a decision proposing to the National Assembly to agree to the Rules on Co-financing of the implementation of the annual Sports Programme of the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia of 16. 11. 2017. The draft decision is an integral part of the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u107	On the proposal for a decision on agreement to the Foundation's Rules of Procedure, we will decide, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting, today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 28th item of the agenda. I'm breaking up the 25th item of the agenda. We're moving to 28. THE PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF A RECOMMUNITY REFERRED TO IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PRINCIPAL PRINCIPLES OF DEPARTMENT OF THE STATE AND OF THE VELIGATION COMMUNITY. The proposal for a recommendation was submitted by a group of five Members and Members with the first signed by Violeto Tomić. The proposal for a recommendation is at the 26th session of the 25th session. Ten. 2017 and 24. 11. 2017 discussed by the Committee on Culture. As the Committee did not adopt the points of the proposal for a recommendation after the discussion, the Chairman of the Committee concluded that the consideration of the proposal for a recommendation at the meeting of the working body had been completed. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Primož Hainz is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u108	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to inform you of the position of the Desus Group on the Proposal for a Recommendation on the consistent application of the principle of separation between the State and the religious communities. While the seven recommendations of the drafters themselves are not entirely superfluous, they touch on an extremely wide range of relations between the State and the religious communities. The recommendations touch on the Law on Religious Freedom, the Law on Defence, the Law on Service in the Slovenian Army, the Law on Organising and Working in the Police, the Law on Organising and Financing Education and Education, touch on the Protocol on Relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the Holy Headquarters and the type of decisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. In short, political system, defence, police, finance, education and international relations. All together, on the basis of Article 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which states that the State and the religious communities are separate and that religious communities are equal, their functioning is free. The proposed topics touch on our core documents in this regard and should also be addressed from the perspective of the modern application of human rights and traditions of Slovenian cultural space. We are convinced that the overheated atmosphere almost immediately before the elections is certainly not a suitable environment for addressing all of the above, even the legitimate issues of the relationship between religious communities and society. Otherwise, it would be necessary, in my opinion, for the applicants to propose concrete solutions at every point they propose instead of recommendations, since the National Assembly is a legislative body. The Group of Members of the proposal will not support the recommendation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u109	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mrs Marija Bachič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u110	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The functioning of religious communities is in many ways not only part of the constitutional provisions but also of the laws and positions of the Constitutional Court. A number of opinions were also made on the topics set out in the proposals for the Recommendation. As the Government systematically states, on the basis of the decisions of the Constitutional Court and other legal rules, the recommendation could not be adopted and the procedure for this proposal is therefore terminated. The Slovenian Constitutional Order and its application in practice point to the importance of regulated co-existence between the State and the religious communities. This is expressed through the implementation of the three principles enshrined in Article 7 of the Constitution: the principle of State and religious separation, the principle of freedom of action of religious communities and the principle of equality of religious communities. As the Constitutional Court points out in its 2010 decision, the country's neutrality is an essential component of the relationship. This is reflected in the prohibition of any identification and establishment of State religion. The State is so committed that it does not introduce religious or secular elements into its work that it is impartial, that it neither accepts religion nor rejects religion, and that it does not support or obstruct in a visual sense. As is known, in the Group of Social Democrats we advocate consistent respect for Article 7 of the Constitution. To this end, in 2012 we also signed the proposal for a new Law on Religious Freedom. By means of the novel, we wanted to eliminate the lack of compliance with the Constitution with regard to the criteria for the registration of religious communities and the employment of priests in hospitals and prisons, to change the way religious communities are financed, to regulate the provision of spiritual care in public institutions where the exercise of the right to religious freedom is hampered and to recognize the importance of the world-renowned communities. Those proposals did not receive sufficient support at the time. Respected and respected, the State shall allow religious communities to carry out certain activities, such as cardio, educational, while having the right, but also the duty to determine the limits of those activities. That is how the Constitutional Court wrote down one of the judgments. It follows from the above that the activities of religious communities in certain areas could be complemented by the social state and could by no means become its compensation as some would have wished. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u111	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Ludmila Novak, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u112	Good-bye, everybody! It is amazing that we have a debate in the State Assembly in a democratic country in 2017, such as the one proposed by the Left. This topic, in our view, has been misused to collect political points and promote hatred not only to the church, but also to Slovenian culture and Slovenian cultural heritage and to Slovenian traditional customs. On the board, someone mentioned that Slovenia is a small country. Are we even aware of how small we would be or whether Slovenia would not be if there were not truly deserving people, such as some priests, bishops? For example, Rudolf Maister fought for the northern border, but they say he would have had nothing to fight for if Bishop Anton Martin Slomšek had not moved the bishop's seat from Šentandraj to Maribor before that. Prekmurje’s involvement in the homeland is due to the priests there. We all know the book France Bevka Kaplan Martin Čedermac – who fought for Slovenian language in that area during Fascism? Priests. And today they also help to keep the Slovenian language in place. Why did we get the first records in Slovenian, the brižin monuments, the confessional forms? We know who published the first book in Slovenian and why. We got the first translation of the Bible, cinemas included, Slovenian, even among civilized languages. And the first newspaper, the Lublan News, also set up by priest Valentin Vodnik. Theological faculty was co-founder of the University of Ljubljana, and the first schools were also set up by priests. Unfortunately, the Levite speaks of them, and of us Christians, as some enemies of the state. Christian Democrats respect every honest man, a believer of any faith, if it helps him to be a better man, a better citizen, and all those who say they are not faithful, try to be good citizens and good people. We must respect one another regardless of which religion or infidelity we belong to. The fact is that Slovenian people and our culture were formed in connection with Christian faith and tradition, and this also marked our culture and our customs. The main components of the principle of separation between the State and the religious community are also laid down by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia: that the State does not commit itself to any religion, that there is no State religion or State church, that churches and other religious communities are independent in their affairs. It is also added that the Slovenian legal order does not prohibit schools and local communities to negotiate for the blessing of a school facility with any of the churches and other religious communities, if they consider it appropriate. We Christian Democrats are confident, and we are also working to ensure that in normal Slovenia we will also be able to stay calm and shape our country's future together. However, such debates as Levi is trying to instill in them encourage hate speech, and we strongly reject them.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u113	The word is given by the Left Messenger Group, for her Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u114	Thank you for your word, chairman. When a person listens to the presentations of the right - hand position, he wonders whether we are at any church synod or at the National Assembly. They talk about coexistence, but this coexistence is acceptable to them only if it takes place in the sign of the cross. Therefore, despite all the empty words heard, the fact is that the situation of religious communities in our country is not regulated in accordance with modern secular principles. One community is privileged both politically and economically. She is privileged by the other religious communities and by the uncanny. This, of course, is the Roman Catholic Church. This privileged situation is not from God’s day, but was allowed by the State — 25 years of indulgence — from Drnovšek’s concordat to Sturm’s Law on Religious Freedom. But the problem is not in religious communities – it is clear and logical that each has its own interests – the problem is in policies that allow these privileges to religious communities. We have therefore proposed a recommendation with seven clear points in mind in Levika. Let me point out the most crucial moments: taxation of payments for religious services for which there are half-formal pricelists; social-fair discounts on the income of religious officials; consideration of the property of religious communities in financing; abolition of the employment of priests in the Slovenian Army; suspension of the participation of top political officials and the Slovenian Army in religious rituals with which the RC creates the image of the State Church. All these measures are justified and reasoned. A bishop lives on a much higher standard than someone on a minimum wage, and the tax is the same. Services taxes must be paid by everyone from the smallest craftsman forward. The State of health insurance covers only beneficiaries of social assistance. Those who are self-employed in culture must constantly prove their superiority. And so on. In short, an unequal and unequal position in our society is enjoyed by the Roman Catholic Church. The employment of clerics in the military is an extremely controversial arrangement where the principle of separation of religious communities is clearly violated. In order to provide religious care for members of the military — even if we could talk about it — we do not need any busy priests. The state thus loses its religious neutrality. At the symbolic level, we can also see the privileges of one religious community. The participation of top political officials in rituals, such as the Mass for the homeland, also confirms the privileged position of the Roman Catholic Church outside. Their wishes are confirmed that they have the status of an official state church. These officials are there in an official role as politicians, not as members of religious communities. After all, many of the above said publicly that he was not a member of the RCC, yet he was sitting in church benches. It is impossible to ignore the fact that the principle of separation between the State and the Church, as set out in Article 7 of the Constitution, is well established at the expense of the public interest and at the expense of the majority of citizens and citizens. In Levica, we have proposed starting points to regulate the situation, not only the situation of the RDC, but of all religious communities, as it should be in the modern state of the 21st century. The political establishment, however, again bowed its heads to the plate and quietly nodded that secular principles increasingly undermined the aspirations of some other, pre-modern and darker times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u115	The word shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, for whom Dr. Miriam Bon Klanjšček has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The recommendation to the Government, which is before us today, expresses the desire for a consistent treatment of the religious community in accordance with the principle expressed in Article 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, namely the separation of the State and the religious communities. The applicant assesses that the Government should adopt appropriate legal changes in the payment of religious services, the determination of the income of religious workers, the extent of funding of the partial payment of contributions to pension, disability and health insurance, the employment of religious servants in the Slovenian Army and the participation of official representatives of the Government, the Slovenian Armed Forces and the Police in religious rituals, with the view that the Roman Catholic Community is a privileged religious community with regard to these rights and activities. The question we are dealing with is of a sensitive nature, as religion is, after all, an integral part of our national identity. The Republic of Slovenia respects freedom of religion and guarantees plurality in the expression of faith. Thus, the relationship between the State and the religious communities is established in the Constitution and the meaning and content of this relationship is also established through certain decisions of the Constitutional Court. The position of religious communities is based on the principle of separation of state and religious communities, the principle of equality of religious communities and the principle of their free operation. Despite the sensitivity of the topic, we support the purpose of the recommendation in the Group of Non-Aligned Members, since the constitutional principle of separation between the State and the religious communities is one of the fundamental principles on which the constitutional regulation of our country is based, and its consistent consideration of how important it is to achieve the separateness expressed in the words of the Commission of the State Council, to post a secular state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u117	The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Anita Kolesh.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u118	Nicely greeted! The position of the Modern Centre Party was extensively explained at the meeting of the Committee on Culture, so this time only for a short time. In the process of discussion and decision-making in the National Assembly, the Left forwarded a proposal of seven recommendations which should lead to a consistent respect for the principle of State and religious separation. The fact is that the principle of State separation requires a very in-depth discussion from the church, which is difficult to carry out in the context of the proposal for these recommendations. History has shown that the interpretation of the concept of separation between the State and the religious communities is complex and in no way uniform as they wish to show in Levica. Freedom of religion and the radical exclusion of the church from public life are in fact excluded. The State guarantee of freedom of religion has brought a French revolution to liberal Europe. The principle of freedom of religion is portrayed as the strongest weight of the ideals of a complete layman’s country. Notwithstanding the historical circumstances and incentives of its origin, the principle has been established as an appropriate framework for the exercise of religious freedom and equality of citizens by not binding secular laity on any religion, allowing for the autonomy of all religious communities and for all religions and atheists to adopt a neutral relationship. As each principle and every model, the separation of the church and the state is also different in changing historical and social contexts. Today, freedom of religion and the separation of the church from the state are constitutionally anchored in most countries of modern Europe, as well as in Slovenia. In any event, the separation between the State and the religious communities does not constitute a prohibition or an impossibility of their cooperation, which means that the State and the Church are in principle separate, but participate in a variety of forms in many projects of a modern social state. As we have already stated in the discussion at the meeting of the parent working body, Members of the SMC believe that the points of the recommendation are not justified, and the separation of the church from the state does not mean the exclusion of the church from society. For these reasons, we do not accept the recommendations at that time and, of course, now.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u119	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u120	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! 7. Article 7 of the Constitution states, inter alia: “The State and the religious communities are separate” does not mean, for example, that the Roman Catholic Church, as the largest and most widespread church in Slovenia, is excluded from society. Finally, it is also the largest and largest form of civil society and not the internal enemy, as seen by Levic. In this respect, the Slovenian Democratic Party is a foreign party with mental narrowness and a tendency to exclude. The Church, in particular the Roman Catholic Church, the Catholic Church has on these floors, Slovenian soils, its city, its role and its historical legitimacy. It is separate from the country, but is not separate from the Slovenian nation, with which it is closely connected all the time, into the depths. Anyway, this is where I end up. I think sometimes less words are better than more. All of you, respected in the Chamber, and of course all those who accompany us, I want a calm, patient and loving Advent Time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u121	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9. 12. 2009 The National Assembly notes that the procedure for the consideration of the proposal has been completed. I'm closing the 28th item of the agenda. I hereby adjourn the 36th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 2 p.m. and 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u122	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. Before we proceed to the voting process, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: 2, 3, 7, 14, 24, 25, 13, 21, 19, 20 and 29 items of the agenda. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of the 2nd item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the draft law amending the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance is not suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats, Mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u123	Messengers and Members, good afternoon! The New Slovenia Group, by its proposed conclusion that the law is not suitable for further consideration, cannot agree and will vote against such a decision. This is because tradesmen, entrepreneurs have long been at their meetings, where they present the requirements of Slovenian crafts and entrepreneurship, point out that the current system of hospital arrangements is inadequate and that, in particular, self-employed entrepreneurs may be in terrible trouble. In particular, it may also mean that such a disease threatens the entire family if the family is dependent solely on the income of an independent entrepreneur. The proposal submitted by Nova Slovenija is aimed at taking over the costs of the hospital after 15 days by the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance and not only after 30 days, which means that we are significantly reducing this time. For the workers themselves, nothing changes; for the burden of the economy, much changes. The workers will still be getting the same hospitals. This law also introduces more solidarity when it comes to a worse and more difficult disease to incorporate the concept of solidarity. Because if someone is sick and at home at the hospital for more than 3 weeks, then, hand to heart, it is a more difficult condition for which solidarity should be involved. Those who worry that this will cause 50 million damage to the institution, do not forget that all these people, employers and even employees, are also paying for all these things to this institution. As I said, Nova Slovenija will object to the proposal that the law is inappropriate for further consideration because it wants to allow the law to continue its course.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u124	We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present and 46 votes against 19. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 19.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision, and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. This concludes item 2 of the agenda. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Pharmacy after a reduced procedure. Since the mother labour body proposes to the assembly that the draft law be adopted in the proposed text and since the amendments to the transitional and final provisions have not been tabled, we are moving on to the third reading of the proposal for a law, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mag. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u125	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Social Democrats will be supported by the proposal of the Pharmacy Act. We believe that this deadline, which is now proposed to extend to 31. 12. 2019, correct, because in the very process of adopting the law we have pointed out that the deadline is very short, including with regard to vertical links. We just think it's the right way. At the same time, we hope that the municipalities that have already started selling this activity will be able to carry out transparent procedures so that they have sufficient time to carry out the procedures and sell the capital shares not under coercion but under favourable conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u126	Is there any other explanation? We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 55 votes in favour and 17 votes in favour. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against 17.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes item 3 of the agenda. We continue with the 7th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Bill of Supplements to the Law on Organising and Working in the Police after a reduced procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 13. 12. 2017. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 2. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 60 votes in favour and 3 votes in favour. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 3. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 61 votes in favour and 2 votes in favour. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 3a. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 55 votes in favour and 10 votes in favour. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted amendments to Articles 2, 3 and 3a of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this article. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would have made the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Basically, if we are proposing, we will also support the law. I can predict that. The vote on the amendments also shows that the law could be or will be supported, which is why I thank all those who will vote in favour of this law. However, the situation is somewhat specific mainly because it clearly shows that the National Assembly will be able to do something that has not yet happened in this mandate, something positive, namely that it will vote against the government and even vote against what the unions in cooperation with the Government want to achieve. I am confident that we will achieve something that rarely happens and that this mandate will obviously happen for the first time, namely that the coalition supports the law proposed by the SDS. This is also a good signal for this Parliament, so once again, thank you all very much. To those, of course, who will vote in favour. Otherwise, something has to be said. We will not interfere with this government, and the law will be passed. The government says it will bring another law on this subject by 31 January, and that law will be better than that, and it will obviously bring even more, and I am even more satisfied with that. If so, that is the case, even though I have expressed my doubts in the debate that this will indeed happen. But it is also true that this vote – so I suppose that the law will be supported – is a message to the Slovenian public, citizens and citizens of Slovenia that the political legislative body, i.e. the National Assembly, does not care about war veterans. In fact, I hope that there will be a path that can begin today — that is what I will call it today — to regulate some of the situations of those people who have created this country. This path will probably be a long one, I believe, but it should have a light at the end of the tunnel, which is said to be something like this: that no one among those who have created this country should live in conditions that are not worthy of the life of an individual who is not worthy of a normal life, and that we will open the way to a process that will govern the situation of veterans of the war on Slovenia in which he will arrange the following mandates. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u128	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Modern Centre Party, Mr Marjan Dolinšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u129	Thank you. I will explain the vote on my behalf, not on behalf of the party. First of all, I'm going to say that I'm going to support this bill. This is not a specific case, it is a war of veterans of Slovenia. As I have already said in the debate, after 26 years it is time for war veterans, all of them, not to get caught – we need to know something – the status of a war veteran does not have only those who wear uniforms, blue or green, even in civilians have the status of a war veteran. The people, people, citizens of the Republic of Slovenia did their civic duty in 1991 and in 1990 respectively, and I think it is right – this is only the beginning, it is a concrete case, but once again, I stress that it is the war veterans of the Republic of Slovenia – to ensure proper status in all areas, of course, we all have our own years, especially in the social field, which is also the case. I will therefore be happy to support this proposal for a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u130	A self-explanation of the vote, Mr Simon Zajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u131	Thank you, Mr. President. This law touches on one very emotional subject in a very emotional time, and I am not talking about pre - divine time, about one another’s time. Apparently, the law will get support, but I won't support it, and I will vote against it. This law, for example, changes dwellings, which are intended primarily for active police officers as social housing. You were aware of this in 2006 when you were in the government, so then you changed the regulations on these apartments, cut a lot out, even for an indefinite period of time. You were in the government at the time, today you're in the opposition, there's a different situation, but then you were aware that these are apartments for active police. I agree that the problem of war veterans must be solved, but in this way in this law – I do not think so. I support the government's efforts and the trade unions' efforts to bring us in, now they will have to make a law that will fix some of the things that will be adopted here today, and that will also regulate what you will agree on in the social dialogue. I think that if we stay the way we do today, we may not be in three years, but after about five, six years, we have a new session here, and we have a new law on what to do with all these young cops and their families who have to drive elsewhere, because in those places where we need the most cops, we don't have enough of them and they come from anywhere else. Then we'll have a session about what's going on with these young families. I respect the purpose or purpose of this change, but in my opinion we are not doing it properly. For this reason, despite the fact that you are going to publicly put me on the ground, I don't know what kind of pillar – of course the DZ will announce me first how I'm going to vote, but – I'm going to tell you now that I'm not going to support this law. Not because I don't want to solve this, but I think that's something that needs to be resolved in two marriages. They both come here in January, and then I hope we can figure this out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u132	Explanation of voice in its own name, Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u133	Thank you very much. I can also say on behalf of the Member, we will unanimously support this law, because we are convinced that – because it is not just the veterans, they are absolutely responsible for this Slovenia we have, but – all the assignments are totally unacceptable. We know that people are being deposited due to the banal 150 euros in debt. We have already proposed various measures to prevent these movements, but unfortunately we have not been heard. I hope that one day, perhaps in some other reference to the National Assembly, we will be heard even more when we wish to address these irregularities somehow, or whether these terrible differences between the really poor and the help of the needy and the rich are eliminated. We know that almost 300,000 people live in Slovenia under the poverty threshold, not only those pensioners, such as the case here, and the unemployed, but also the full-time employees can hardly cover their costs. It's about housing that's human resources and that's for active cops, of course, that's true. However, we have seen that there are many apartments on the MNZ that are occupied either by people who do not belong to them and never worked with the police or are even empty. Here is the task of the Ministry and the Government to look for these options, and absolutely not to hire people who have worked fairly and responsibly their entire lives and cannot from their homes at an old age and, above all, cannot pay economic rents with a low pension. As we say, in Levica we will support the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u134	We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 60 votes against 3 in favour. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes item 7 of the agenda. We continue with the adjourned 14th item of the agenda, this is the second reading of the proposal for a law on the mass valuation of real estate in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 12. 2017. We decide on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 2. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 49 votes against and 15 votes against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 15.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 6. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 46 votes against and 14 votes against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD to Article 7. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 47 votes against and 14 votes against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD to Article 8. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 48 votes against and 15 votes against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 15.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law, the motion for a bill in the introductory explanation suggested that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, should hold a third consideration of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. 73 Members and Members were present and 50 were voted against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 19.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted amendments to Articles 2, 6, 7 and 8 of the amended bill. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I ask qualified applicants whether they intend to table amendments to this Article. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. With regard to the harmonisation of the law, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Tiln Bozic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u135	Thank you for your word. On the basis of the review, I note that the law, due to the amendments adopted on the home working body, is not harmonised, so we will also propose a harmonisation amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u136	Since the Government has warned that, following the third reading, the proposal for a law on the adoption of the amendments is inconsistent, I ask the proposer to prepare a harmonisation amendment. The National Assembly will continue its consideration of this item today, half an hour after the end of the 29th agenda. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 24th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on Consent to the Rules of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision: The National Assembly agrees to the Rules of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia of 30. Ten. 2017. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 68 votes in favour and no one opposed. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude the 24th item of the agenda. We continue with the end of the 25th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on Consent to the Regulation on Co-financing of the implementation of the annual Sports Programme of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision: The National Assembly gives its consent to the Regulation on co-financing the implementation of the annual sport programme of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia of 16. 11. 2017. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 69 votes in favour, none against. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. This concludes the 25th item of the agenda. We continue with the end of the 13th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on the regulation of the ownership of public roads under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on the regulation of the ownership of public roads is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present and 51 votes against 9. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision, and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude the 13th item of the agenda. We continue with the 21st item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Road Transport Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments to the Road Transport Act is suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, Mr Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u137	Thank you for your word, President! Colleagues and colleagues! We will support the proposed law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. This law opens the door to the divisional economy in road transport, in road transport. It is easy for citizens and citizens to use their private property, in this case means of transport, for commercial purposes. We have incorporated into the law all the security guards, which have caused us to hear some negative reactions from abroad. Anyone wishing to carry out such transports should have an undertaking, which means that he would pay all taxes and contributions. An electronic account would be issued for any transport that would be carried out. Companies that would organise and intervene in transport would be linked to the Financial Administration's servers, which means that a full review of how many transports were carried out, when and at what cost. On that basis, we would see how much money has to come to the Treasury. Since this is mainly a matter of road safety, we have also put in some security guards that such transports should not be carried out by drivers who have the status of a young driver, drivers who do not have poorly insured passengers, and drivers who have penalty points. Because of some of the concerns about the text of this article, which we are amending, in particular by the SMC Group, I now predict that we are prepared in the Slovenian Democratic Party, if the law were adopted in the first reading, to adopt the appropriate amendments in such a way as to further tighten the matter in this direction so that only those who have a licence under the applicable law can carry out transport operations. In this case, such as the current situation, taxi drivers. Even though we have added a broader dictatorship, which in our view also solves the legal status of the transport website.org, we are ready to go further and really prepare legislation or change in this direction to at least see how it works for the beginning. I am sure that both those who carry out these transports and users would have a positive experience. As has already been said, in the SDS Group we will support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u138	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, Left Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u139	Thank you for your word, chairman. Uber can come to our country today without any problems. Why doesn't that happen? Because it should operate under the same conditions and under the same regulations as transports are already under way. Of course he doesn't want that. What Uber is really interested in is social dumping, payroll dumping and avoidance of taxes. It seeks an unfair competitive advantage on the market at the expense of all citizens and citizens, at the expense of their social security and at the expense of brutal exploitation of drivers, workers. The law adopted by the SDS for parliamentary consideration is the realization of the wet ideas already held by Minister Koprivnikar, and then those ideas stopped. Well, now we've got a change of law that's extremely lobbyistic. The restriction on one multinational capitalist corporation, namely the one mentioned in the law itself, is removed. The greater the lack of spine, the greater the kneeling under international capital, which no one has chosen, I have never seen before. And that's why we're going to vote against this law in Levica. The divisional economy and all the technology it drives can be a good thing, if it takes place on a solidarity basis, for the benefit of the whole society and for the benefit of the work. But they're trapped in plots of Ubers, Airbbs, and similar platforms, unfortunately, not serving the general public. It serves only their owners and their management to fatten themselves with the severe exploitation of societies and working people. They're doing this all over the world, not to say anywhere in the world, in Slovenia for once, not even to that extent, and there's no way, there's no way for Uber to open the door in front of us.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u140	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mr Simon Zajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u141	Thank you. This law has one major problem, namely that it opens Article 1, which provides for whom this law does not apply. This in general would not be such a big problem if we did not just decide what Uber is in the European Court of Justice. Is it a platform that connects a customer with someone who carries out transports, or is Uber in itself an undertaking that carries out transports. If this decision is to go in this direction, in order for the formulation to be adopted, that Uber is in itself a carrier, then this Article 1 is problematic. If not, then the government has already prepared a law that will further define other things, but also that similar platforms will be able to operate in Slovenia, of course according to our rules, in a way that only those who have a licence will be able to carry out transports. That is why we cannot support this law at this time. However, if a different court ruling is expected, and if the Government does not do what the Secretary of State has said at the meeting, then we can do so again in January. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u142	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats, Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u143	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The New Slovenia Group will support the proposal to conclude that the law is suitable for further consideration. We ensure that, in the second reading, we will make a significant contribution to complementing and aligning the law with the European Union guidelines already in place for such business models today. If you do a synthesis of a hitchhiker and an interconnector or internet, you get – what? You get a platform or app if you want to, which is called transport.org. This was done by students for their needs, or students of the Škofia Classic High School, if I am absolutely correct. But today they are mainly older users of this platform or this application, especially older generation, of course students, but especially older ones. I say more than once that technology is overtaken by the legislators. And it is up to us, ladies and gentlemen, to make legislation that will be good for people. We must not reject technology; we must use it in such a way that it will be good for us, that it will be good for people, because politics is work for the good of all. And this is about us taking advantage, as stated in that letter on the intention signed by the Vice-President of this Government to exploit the social, environmental and economic potential of the growing collaborative and digital economy. Their efforts, namely the Republic of Slovenia and Uber, stem from the common vision of Slovenia as a green reference country in digital Europe. As I have already mentioned the guidelines of the European Union, see in June 2016, the European Commission issued guidelines for the appropriate application of European Union law to such business models, as regards market access requirements, liability arrangements, user protection, classification of workers and taxation, together with instructions to the Member States of the European Union on appropriate legal arrangements at national level. So, actually, we already have a fence, and now it's time for us in the National Assembly to do our homework. It's time. We agree to use modern technologies for the good of people, so we will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u144	Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? Explanation of the vote in his own name, Mr. Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u145	Thank you very much. I will support the law that it goes into further consideration because I was present at the summit of the Slovenian economy in 2016, I sat a few chairs away from the President of the Government. The President of the Government and Minister Koprivnikar spoke about the Slovenian digital agenda. And just the story of this law is getting on the train of this digital agenda at some potential. The arguments against Uber are such as the stories of those farmers who rebelled in the first industrial revolution and destroyed machines, or perhaps later those who made carriages when the first cars were coming in, with which a man could drive an engine with internal combustion. Those against you today are against everything that has been done by competition in the world, which has made humanity a better life, which has allowed rapid movement in space and time, not only things to work, but also individuals, which has made life possible and has sometimes extended life in certain innovations to many people. What you're saying today, and at the same time you're typing on the phones of rotten capitalism, you're talking in the Philips microphones, you're on the facebooks and twitters of ugly capitalists, is one thing that you're very happy to use such inventions, and so I believe that you'll be Uber's greatest users also in your future, respected colleagues and colleagues. But all the others who decide, I tell you, these are only the words of Mr Mir Cerar. If we want to go into the fourth industrial revolution, if we want to take a few steps and become a pilot state, including investments, many other things, nanotechnology, including self-propelled vehicles, electric mobility, we can say, all of this, then we cannot say no to it, and we must give the law the opportunity to go into the next treatment and to adopt such a law. [[Incomprehensible]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u146	Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Mr Jernej Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u147	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! I will support this marriage because the Uber system, as we know it, is the most normal and natural. Those who claim that the current legislation is regulated enough for Uber to come to Slovenia, no, that's not true. Then we'd get a so-called fake cab as we know it. But that's certainly not what we want. All those who are here today in the hall are going abroad and you are the ones who come to other countries and you are the first to hire Uber, you will vote against today. I won't name you. But be honest with yourself and with other fellow citizens who, like you, when going abroad, would like to use Uber here in Slovenia. Because it's a great app. And in this way, we are fighting something that is not possible in the long run. We're talking about human technology here, something that'll catch up with us sooner or later. We can only postpone this thing for a few years, two, three years, and then she'll knock on the door again. Please just one thing, let's not be an analog clock in the digital world. And that is exactly what we will confirm by today's vote if you vote against this law. Look, it's also about competitiveness. If we bring Uber to Slovenia, on the other hand, other platforms, taxi systems, previous transports will improve. Finally, this law also saves the legal void. Yesterday, in the debate, I said who uses transport and there is only one person inside, including the staff of this National Assembly, this is an irregular situation, Mr President of the National Assembly, if you are driving alone in this car. There's no legal basis. This law also solves this problem. And a lot of other things. In particular, we are taking a step forward in this perception that technology is progressing and that we also need to step up in this country with it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u148	Since the interest is still an explanation for the vote on my own behalf, I am opening the way for the application. Everyone you want to sign up, please. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Mr Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u149	Thank you, President. Yesterday, when I was explaining the law, next to Uber, I counted at least six other platforms that have a similar activity as Uber. So this is not the lex Uber you wanted to show, but it's the fact that we're opening the door to everyone who's dealing with it to come to Slovenia. Rumor has it Uber's exploiting himself. This law does not force anyone to transport to Uber or any other platform. Everyone makes a voluntary decision. If someone thinks he's being exploited or actually being exploited, then he's stupid enough to carry out transports and work for such a company, given that he can voluntarily enter and, of course, voluntarily exit. I'm sure Uber's not a carrier, but Uber is just the one looking for your client. The carrier will still be the one licensed under the applicable law. You're talking about a luxury. Look, all cabbies are practically on espionage today. What is today in Ljubljana Metro, Laguna, Interex and other taxi services are just dispatch centres. The taxi drivers, however, are not employed by these companies but have espacies. This law regulates, on the one hand, that we open up some new options for taxi drivers. Wherever Uber was said to appear and similar platforms, there were protests, there were severe oppositions from taxi drivers, and I did not hear here that anyone would take a strong stand against it. Why? Because we have written such a text in the law that we also allow taxis to carry out transports for such platforms. Even at the same time as they do for those dispatching centers where they are already driving like espouses. I'm going to uphold the law for all of this.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u150	An explanation of the voice in his own name, Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u151	Thank you, Chairman. It's easy to say that it's stupid to choose a poorly paid job if you're sitting next to a two-thousand-and-a-some-euro-net chair. But this is not the pay that an average working citizen of our country could afford, he does not have some economic freedom that comes with such high income. That is why people resort to poorly paid jobs because they do not get other jobs, and they are put under the bare force of survival. Why else would anyone go to work as some kind of nickname for Uber? Can we ask ourselves, even if only we who are in this hall, after we have concluded the meeting, do we prefer to deal with our hobbies, with our friends, with our family, with our partners, with our children, or would we prefer to go out with pure joy “furat” around for Uber? The answer is, I think he's pretty cocky. You choose such a job only under the pressure of a severe need for life. Corporations such as Uber are making the most of their lives to exploit their profits on the workers' backs. Uber's story is not a story of technology. We can use this technology in all areas and we can use it for social good. Uber's story is the story of social dumping, payroll dumping and exploitation. Proposers of such legal exceptions, which work for the specific benefit of one or a handful of multinational capitalist corporations, only show that they are without backbone and kneeling in front of financial moguls. And that they are not interested in the welfare of working people, with or without Slovenian citizenship, but in the welfare of financial motivators, usually with their home address in the Cayman Islands.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u152	Explanation of the voice in its own name, Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u153	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! I'll vote against it, too. Why? Because Uber is really nothing but a cab service. We can say that Metro, Laguna, and the rest are just dispatchers. Yes, you can. We can also say that we already have a platform that works, which is essentially an online taxi, in Slovenia. It's called Hope and it's essentially a franchise, if I'm not mistaken, of a Czech company and it works in the same way as Uber. But what's the key difference? The fact that Metro is still at Laguna, Hop, and other taxi drivers is still at least loose in some kind of working relationship. He may be an independent entrepreneur, but the State pays taxes and contributions and the State provides him with some security in case of illness in case of incapacity to work. But when we get to platforms like Uber, we're not talking about anything other than bypassing all the legal provisions on working relationships we have in this country. If we say that this is permissible for taxi drivers, I don't know why we wouldn't do a cleaning platform that looks like a bypass and a platform for port service providers that is such a bypass, and we'll end up wondering who else is paying taxes and contributions in this country. At the end of the day, we're going to get to the system that he has, I don't know, the United States, where you get cancer, because you don't have any contributions, you have to take a mortgage on your apartment, or a house, so you can get treatment at all. And that's the direction the model you're defending is pulling us in. Therefore, clearly, I will defend the existing standards that we have in this country, and I will vote against allowing such marital bypasses as Uber.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u154	A self-explanation of the vote, Mr Primož Hainz.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u155	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have to say for myself that the dividing economy, the modern technology, this has nothing to do with this pierre for Uber. It's just one of the cabs we've heard before. Second. I stand for ecology, for an ecological approach, for a public approach, I will say so, in the long term, as has been said, we are all dead in the long run, but we can shorten this by an ecological approach. Third. As far as Uber is concerned, he's exactly like Go-Opti. We already have a Go-Opti. Sometimes a driver asks a passenger to take him instead because he's been behind the wheel for 16 hours. I had a neighbor who was driving. As for Desusa, because someone mentioned the elderly or referred to the elderly, Desus and ZDUS advocated the Older Ones, action aid, younger pensioners also for intergenerational solidarity, sometimes a younger one took the elder. So we advocate some inter-human relations that will solve these problems, which, of course, we call inter-generational solidarity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u156	A self-explanation of the vote, Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u157	Thank you, President. Since I have positive experience with Uber, I will, of course, support the bill. I don't understand the fear of competition or I understand it with those who have the ideals of Venezuela. Regrettably, in these explanations, I find that some do not even know the law of employment and fear the difference between those who will drive to Uber or other platforms and between taxi drivers who also have espa. Everyone is a contributor and everyone is insured under a law called the U.S.R. While abroad they are developing similar platforms such as Uber, America Uber for health transport, in 2017, at the transition in 2018 we are afraid of something modern, one specific. To conclude, why would I support the bill? “The fact is that Uber is a major change in urban mobility through its activity. It also has a positive impact on employment opportunities and overall economic development and on quality of life in general." President of the Government Miro Cerar 17. Ten. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following And this is one of the few times I agree with the President of the Government, and it is therefore right to support the bill, which is also supported by the President of the Government. I am even more in favour, because I am also listening to various parliamentary questions in the National Assembly, including members of the coalition who expect government representatives to arrange an area such as Uber to regulate an area such as Airbnb and the like, and they are pressuring the keys against such modern approaches as this law brings before us today. Since I am also in favour of modernisation in this area, I will support the proposal for a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u158	We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, with 18 votes in favour and 38 votes in favour. [[The vote was 18.]] [[And against 38.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude the 21st item of the agenda. We continue with the adjourned 19th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Added Value Tax Act is not suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u159	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the amendment and the addition of the Value Added Tax Act. The amendment and the addition of the Value Added Tax Act amend the reduction of the general rate of tax by 2 percentage points and the reduction of the second rate by one percentage point. The amendment and the supplementation of the Value Added Tax Act also introduce a reduced second rate of 5%, which should include a group of major life needs such as food, children's clothing, electricity and the like. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the market situation and the forecast of Slovenia's economic growth for the future allow the value added tax to be reduced to a pre-crisis level. It should be pointed out that the government of Mira Cerar has 1.5 billion more tax revenues than the government had in 2014, for example. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that economic growth must also be known in the pockets and wallets of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u160	Is there one on behalf of the Group of Members? No, no, no. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u161	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will support the amendments to the Value Added Tax Act, because the increase in rates was adopted during the financial and economic crisis, which is now gone. Therefore, it is right to return the rates by reducing the overall rate by 2% to the level before the economic crisis. Secondly, a lower rate, a strongly reduced tax rate for certain products and services that bear the most burden on the family budgets and individual budgets should be introduced, particularly because their budget increases, in order to increase spending or savings. It's just that it's up to each individual. The fact is that in Europe today, 17 countries have a so-called third level, strongly reduced value added tax rate. This means that more than half of the countries have this degree, and everyone can live with it peacefully. As a result, certain products and services are also lower in neighbouring countries. The value added tax, in itself, will not have a significant impact on the budget if we take into account higher demand. In general, the budget in 2017 will be one billion more than it was in 2016 and all public revenues will be one billion more. And it's a good thing you know that in people's wallets. That's why I'm going to support this marriage for the good of the people.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u162	An explanation of the voice in his own name, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u163	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will vote in favour of the proposal for a decision that the law is suitable for further consideration and so will my colleague and colleague. As you know, in our political programme, the New Slovenia political programme has already been written on the cover to try to reduce tax burdens. If we have somehow understood, but have never supported raising the VAT rate in times of crisis, that is, as an anti-crisis measure, we have been fierce opponents to this government, which has now effectively emplaced a higher rate of value added tax. Value added tax is actually the most a social tax. We would expect the Left Coalition to somehow understand this asociality and to go to a reduction in the VAT rate. Today we know that about 280 thousand, of course, this number changes, our people, our citizens and our citizens, living below the poverty threshold. The poverty threshold for single-member households is at annual level, according to the calculation of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, just over €7 000 per year. And it is not moral, ladies and gentlemen, to tax what a person really needs to survive normally. That is why we, too, introduced a new Law on Income, which would have raised the general income relief right to the threshold of poverty risk, i.e. to the level of €7,000. You simply rejected this purely for accounting reasons and, in fact, if I now listen to the discussions and explanations of this government, nothing can actually be done because this government is looking purely at accounting.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u164	Is there any other explanation? Please login to anyone who wishes to have an explanation in your own name. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u165	Thank you for your word. See, if there is a country's task, it is to establish an environment that will favour entrepreneurship to accelerate development. Entrepreneurship alone provides quality jobs and only these provide long-term social security. No other method, no redistribution of the country's side makes a rich individual and does not give as much social security and prosperity as a quality job that an entrepreneur can open only if a state sets up a framework that promotes competitiveness that promotes entrepreneurship. This is one of the main tasks of the State. And that's what this coalition has completely forgotten. It relies on faster development in our partner countries and on the fact that we have an export-oriented entrepreneurship. And then she credits herself for it, which is already the highlight of rudeness. Slovenian entrepreneurship is so good that it succeeds despite such a government, not because of it. This is the whole truth of the moment we live in. Today you have a proposal that allows us to at least make it a little more possible for entrepreneurship to live, to capture its breath, to make it more competitive in the European and global markets, to enable Slovenia as a whole and entrepreneurship to develop more rapidly, and to give people more prosperity, which is the only foundation of any social security in the long run. That is why it is worth supporting this law, so I will support it and that is why it will certainly be supported by everyone who is actually involved in Slovenian entrepreneurship. Regrettably, in view of the statements made so far in the majority, the presence of those who see in the redistribution of the country of the only savior is still here. Unfortunately, this has not proved to be a success anywhere in the long run. This requires making Slovenia competitive, giving people the opportunity to develop, making rich individuals. That must be the goal.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u166	A self-explanation of the voice, Mrs. Vojka Shergan.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u167	Thank you. I cannot support the proposed VAT reduction law because it is simply that the applicant does not have a solution, in fact it does not propose where it should be taken from the budget, where the funds should be redeployed after the VAT reduction has dropped. Nor does this solve socially disadvantaged people. Customers are also richer, and those who buy more pay more taxes. So this does not save the poor, but we have done for the poorer in fact that the lowest income scale has been reduced by 300 euros this year and will be saved here. It is also a permanent measure, the government of Alenka Bratušek has also proposed this measure. Thus, there is no reason for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u168	An explanation of the voice in your own name, Dr. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u169	Thank you, President. Look, the lower price of bread, the lower price of heating, the lower price of baby clothes doesn't save the poorest. Do you agree with that? I don't. I say that the lower price of bread and basic necessities, heating up your own apartment just saves the poorest, most and most directly. I find it difficult to find one reasonable reason, except for the Lithuanian Treasury Minister, who would rather have more money than less, which is somehow logical, you know, this is the second branch of power. I don't understand and there's no reasonable reason why we can't give people better living conditions. Especially if we can afford it. On Monday, the President of the Government explained to you how good we are, how the country's revenue is growing, how tax revenues are growing. Let these words become meat, let them come into taxpayers' wallets and just below VAT will make them feel the poorest, that is to say the one to whom this law is intended most. If I just banalize now on two choices. Here is just a decision about whether you prefer to have more money in your own wallet or you prefer more money in the Treasury and then whoever has the key to the Treasury will decide who will be given the money. Ask those who have chosen you, and they will make it clear that they prefer 100 euros in their own pocket to decide for themselves what they will buy, and 100 euros at Tiln Christmas to decide where to disperse them. I will support this law, and I suggest you support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u170	Well, that's how personal you really don't have to be. A self-explanation of the voice, Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u171	Colleagues and colleagues! From the promise that you will make a system of things, you cannot live, and nothing of this promise will be brought into the wallet of any individual who has to survive through the month. In 1999, we introduced VAT. 1. Seven. 1999. In 2013, they said that the temporary measure is VAT raising, but when recovery is achieved and better, we will release it. But no! You don't understand those who pay hard, which also means one euro a day in a wallet a lot, one euro is a cheap social strata. But no! More. To allow yourself to say that lower VAT does not save poor people, it seems to me that it is extremely inappropriate for some of the largest coalition parties. What saves poor people? Everything we propose here in New Slovenia, either from pensions, widow's pensions, scholarships, and I can also list free kindergartens about which you do not listen. All of this saves poor people. They are not saved by a full state budget, but by what they receive every month in their wallet and what is left of them to pay their bills. And they wouldn't be the only country to have three levels of tax. We know them. The Secretary of State counted them yesterday. Spain has a super-decreased rate of 4%. Poland, which is currently one of the more successful countries, has 5, 8 and 23%. Why do we not follow the example of countries that have a successful economy and also provide a decent life for their citizens? It's time for us to do it here. I will support this law, so that it is suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u172	We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 46. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 46.]] I note that the National Assembly has not adopted the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the bill has therefore been completed. This concludes item 19 of the agenda. We continue with the 20th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the proposal for a law on the judicial protection of holders of qualified liabilities of banks. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on the judicial protection of qualified bank holders is suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats Mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u173	Here is one interesting thing about how to save those who have been cut down or deprived of their assets, many savings, and so on. The discussions in this Parliament, whether we have invested too much in the resolution of Slovenian banks, have been lengthy. In this house we had the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia who explained his own, we Members discussed these things extensively and then concluded that these people had been wronged because they simply did not have the opportunity to make this withdrawal, I can also say theft of their property, even complain. Now we get a famous marriage that's supposed to solve this problem. But when you go to the brother’s decree of this law, all you can do is look and wonder. When you find out, you come to the fact that these victims have to prove something that virtually has no theoretical potential to prove it, which means it's the same – they'll never get the money. Thank you so much for the law. The Group of Members will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u174	We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 6. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against six.]] I note that the National Assembly has adopted a decision and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as its parent labour. I hereby conclude the 20th item of the agenda. We're moving to 29. At the end of the day, these are mental-voluntary matters. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal to establish the termination of the term of office of a member and to appoint a member of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding. The proposal to establish the termination of the term of office of a member and the appointment of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding Board was submitted to the National Assembly by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Finance of Magi. Matei Vranictor Erman.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u175	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The procedure for the appointment of a new member of the SDH Supervisory Board was initiated on the basis of a written notification by the President of the Supervisory Board of the early termination of the term of office of Barbara Smolnikar, who resigned due to personal circumstances. On this basis, in accordance with the Slovenian State Holding Act, I hereby appointed an expert committee to prepare a proposal for candidates for a member of the Supervisory Board. The expert commission issued an open public call, but received only three applications, two of which failed to meet the legal requirements. As a result, the expert committee was unable to draw up a list of three competent candidates in accordance with the decision. In view of the need to complete the SDH Supervisory Board and the small number of candidates applied for, I have decided that the new procedure by appointing the expert commission should not be repeated, but that I am in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 40 of the SDH Law on the Government as a candidate proposed by Mr Janez Vipotnik. The Government confirmed the proposal and forwarded it to the National Assembly. Mr Vipotnik submitted his candidacy in the spring process, which was included by the same expert commission in the proposal of the five most suitable candidates for the SDH Supervisory Board. For him, the Commission found that it met all the conditions laid down by law and that it exhibited long-standing international experience in the management of strategic investments, the operation of holding companies in the international environment and knowledge of the implementation of strategies. Mr Vipotnik submitted a written agreement and statement for this nomination that his role in the spring public appeal still meets the actual situation and the requirements of the failed autumn public call. The Ministry also obtained all the other certificates or documents and found that the candidate was not punished in the forecasting process. It follows from the CV of the candidate and the evidence that Mr Vipotnik demonstrates the relevant professional competences with which he complements the expertise of the current members of the Supervisory Board and meets all other conditions laid down for appointment as a member of the SDH Supervisory Board. In line with all the above, I propose that the National Assembly support the Government's proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u176	The proposal for a finding and designation was treated by the Commission of the mandate as a working body and submitted a proposal for a decision to the assembly. In order to present the report to the Commission, I give the floor to the President, Dr Mitja Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u177	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. Dear Minister, thank you very much for the additional explanation, for having saved me the embarrassment of how to present everything in five minutes. So let me just inform you that the Mandate-Volution Commission is at its 40th session. 12. 2017 discussed the proposal to establish the termination of the term of office of a member and the appointment of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding, d.d., by the National Assembly 9. 11. 2017 submitted by the Government. The first paragraph of Article 39 of the Slovenian State Holding Act provides, inter alia, that the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding, d.d., shall consist of five members. The Act further provides in Article 40, paragraph 1, that all members of the SDH Supervisory Board shall be appointed by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government and that the National Assembly shall give its consent to the entire Government proposal and shall not be able to amend it. In accordance with the second paragraph of the same Article, a member of the SDH Supervisory Board shall be elected for a period of five years with the possibility of a single re-election. In the debate at the meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, members of the Mandate-Election Commission of the opposition SDS Group considered that the proposed candidate was not fit for such an important position as monitoring the administration of state assets. The insufficient number of applications and the decision of the Minister to propose to the National Assembly a candidate selected by the expert committee in the preliminary procedure demonstrates inadequate management of the human resources policy, as quality individuals do not want to run for important functions. The representative of the proposer explained that the role of the expert commission in the selection of appropriate proposals from SDH members is an objective assessment of the candidates and a limitation of the political impact. In the preliminary procedure of 24 of Mr Vipotnik's registered candidates, the expert committee listed the five most suitable candidates. It follows from the CV and the accompanying evidence of the proposed candidate that he fulfils the legal conditions for appointment and that he is professionally and personally appropriate. Having regard to the notice of the President of the SDH Supervisory Board and the proposal by the Government of the Council of Ministers and the State Assembly, it is proposed that, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 40 of the Law on Slovenian State Holding and Article 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the following decision be taken: The National Assembly notes that Barbara Smolnikar 21. 6. 2017 made a withdrawal statement from the place of Member of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding, d.d., and therefore terminated its term of office as a member of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding, d.d. The Commission then adopted a decision proposing to the National Assembly that, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 40 of the Law on Slovenian State Holding and Article 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it should adopt a decision appointing Janez Vipotnik as a member of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding, d.d., for a period of five years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u178	Here comes the presentation of the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u179	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, we are 14 December 2017, not 1 April this year. We are talking about the Slovenian State Holding, a holding company that manages approximately 13 billion assets of enterprises, institutions that are still part of the Republic of Slovenia and which were not owned as such in the wild ownership process, but still have a majority share of the Republic of Slovenia. What about the candidate? The first case, respected colleagues and colleagues, is it possible that one of the supervisors of 24 candidates may have applied in the spring and why these candidates who fulfil the conditions have not now applied after the resignation of this member? Do you think this situation that we are currently following in the Slovenian State Holding is normal? Is this a situation in which candidates who apply know what it is, we can say, a negative selection of this government, that there is no real opportunity at all and that only after some political pedigree can these people be called? What about a candidate who's the only candidate? Two candidates who have been registered as in some local Slovenian village, where the mayor has some kind of low-value public order, which calls the company and that company calls two, they give three bills, two are literally "fake" and then one account is, of course, that case. It seems increasingly to us that, at the most difficult position in the country, the most demanding role of supervisor is hereby appointed by Mr Janez Vipotnik, the grey eminence of the former real-socialist management work. In 1993, John Vipotnik resigned, literally before the complete disintegration after the loss of the Yugoslav market. All the time, he supervised the first rehabilitation of the Ljubljana Bank, later the New Ljubljana Bank, left a literal destruction there, went abroad, where he was always the representative of one of the parts of Istria abroad. And now retired Janez Vipotnik is to return to the so-called New Ljubljana Bank, which he once supervised. He wasn't controlling it, but he was on the board of directors of this bank. So the old boys are returning to their places, respected colleagues and colleagues. The Old Boys live their second youth, their second puberty under the rule of Mira Cerar. Do you think this is normal? Now I will read one of the most important statements by Dr. Boris Pleskovic, our expert who received the highest recognition of the President of the Republic in 2006, the man who mastered at Harvard who later doctored at MIT, who for many years was the leading university in the world after all, we can say international statements. But what am I trying to say? I would like to say something else that Dr. Boris Pleskovic said in one of his memories for Slovenian media when he was as a great expert advisor to the then.government: “Once upon a time, the former director of Nano Vipotnik from Istria came to me and said that they would have done as Mencinger said, to give 5% of the companies to directors, that is, 5% of Slovenian companies would have just donated to directors in 1991, read: they would have stolen, and later they would have exhausted themselves in five or ten years from their profits, which they would eventually privatize, and would have given the loan back then to the Ljubljana Bank or perhaps the Maribor Bank.” That is how candidate Janez Vipotnik addressed Dr Pleskovic during the time of the so-called first Peterlet government. Mr Pleskovic, as a great expert, said to Mr Nan Vipotnik: “Only through my body.” And later we know history. In this interview, Dr. Vlado Dimovski also talks about wild privatisation, about the impact of LDS, later in 1992, when they adopt the so-called Mencinger ownership process. All the other injustices that have occurred to Slovenian taxpayers, citizens, citizens, not least, respected colleagues from Desus, pensioners today, we know. John Vipotnik is, we can say, the symbolic meaning of this savage privatisation. It is the symbolic importance of a real-socialist director who has never succeeded in any market and who passed the exam for the supervisor a month ago with Mr Jamnik and Mrs Glavin. So far, he has not controlled a small football club in any neighborhood in the wider part of Slovenia. And you want to propose this man as your first supervisor. We strongly oppose this proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u180	We are done with the presentation of the Group's position. We're moving on to the debate. The Minister of Finance, Mag, has the floor. Matthew Vranick Erman.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u181	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. I did not wish to make myself known, but since the repeated claims that have already occurred at the meeting of the Commission of Mandate and Choice have been made, I consider it necessary to reject, at this point, the indications which have been put forward in this performance and before the Commission of Mandate and Choice. Following the meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, the candidate has given a reasoned reply to all the allegations that were exposed and repeated on the Mandate-Electorial Commission and still enjoys the applicant's confidence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u182	I'm closing the debate. Pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 40 of the Law on Slovenian State Holding and Article 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Commission submitted the following decision for information to the assembly: The National Assembly notes that Barbara Smolnikar 21. 6. 2017 made a withdrawal statement from the place of Member of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding, d.d., and therefore terminated its term of office as a member of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding, d.d. I take it the council has made a decision. The Commission also proposes to the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 40, paragraph 1, of the Act on Slovenian State Holding and Article 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that it adopt a decision appointing Janez Vipotnik, as a member of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding, d.d., for a period of 5 years. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, Mr Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mr. candidate Janez Vipotnik, of course, did not deny these matters. First of all, I'm wondering if Dr. Pleskovic answered, who said how he literally addressed him, which he might say was a crime. That's the first thing. The other thing is, he didn't answer me personally either. I don't think it's a problem for everyone to know my e-mail. I could answer any of those allegations I've made against him. So Mr Nano Vipotnik or Janez Nano Vipotnik, as I said, does not have any experience with any supervision in any of the larger companies or small businesses, nor in any sports club in any neighbourhood in Slovenia. He ended up in a so-called institution where you get your probation for a supervisor. And if you don't think about it, this exam was signed by Mrs. Lydia Glavin. So this same Lydia Glavina, who will now control her, and this same Lydia Glavin that you put up, which we have a CV or a CV smaller than someone who enters the first year of any college in Slovenia. So we don't know anything about Lydia Glavin. We know that he has dual citizenship, that he comes from an insemination, that he is probably connected to the company Safti, KB 1909, which you already know, and that he was installed in such a beautiful way in the Slovenian state holding company. So then we have the problem of Damjan Belic, with his business in the Balkans, which is currently the President of the Supervisory Council, just before the sale of NLB, this NLB, where in the predecessor, the Ljubljana Bank, Mr Janez Nano Vipotnik acted disastrously. And it is he who will now supervise this second part or the second time the rehabilitation of this New Ljubljana Bank. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to appeal to you, and also personally, once again, we in the Slovenian Democratic Party will strongly reject this proposal and we will vote against it, because we think that such recruitment is such an important function of this remnant of state property, which has been created by Slovenian citizens and citizens for decades, is indeed an unrealistic matter. We want such a call to be repeated and to allow young candidates who have proven themselves in their lives to withdraw from the political omen, which is likely to be a great advantage in your recruitment, to start working in Slovenian institutions in the highest positions of real people, Slovenes and Slovenes, who have proven themselves throughout the world with knowledge that has energy, experience and not compromised by their actions in the past. As I have said and will repeat again, in the Slovenian Democratic Party we will oppose such appointment of Mr Janez Nan Vipotnik as a member of the Supervisors in the Slovenian State Holding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u184	We're voting. I'm breaking up. Who else? Procedural? Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u185	Thank you so much for saying that. Earlier, in her explanation, the Minister said that Mr Janez Vipotnik had justifiably rejected all that he had said on the Mandate-Electorial Commission and today in the National Assembly, Mr Breznik.I suggest that this reasoned rejection is probably in writing, even before the vote that we will see what is justifiably rejected and what is not. I think it is the government's responsibility if it has such a document to give us here on the table, to see whether these statements hold or not, or whether that is what a statement by a minister who was attracted to the hair. Let's take a few minutes, Mr President, to make sure we get the document, this well-founded rejection. We'll wait a few more minutes to see if that's true or not.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u186	Thank you. I've heard your proposal and I reject it. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present and 36 votes against 24. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 24th.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I also inform you that the proposed harmonisation of the amendment has already been published on the e-club. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing five members of the Supervisory Board of RTV Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the President of the Commission, Dr Mitja Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u187	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. Dear Members and Members! On the basis of Articles 36 and 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly at its 40th session 7. 12. 2017 set out the text of the Proposal for a Decision appointing five members of the Supervisory Board of RTV Slovenia. The law on RTV Slovenia in Article 26, paragraph 1, provides, inter alia, that RTV Slovenia shall have a supervisory board comprising 11 members, five of whom shall be appointed by the National Assembly, taking into account the representation of political parties in the National Assembly. Members of the Supervisory Board RTV Slovenia 28. 1. The four-year term of office of 2018 is hereby extended to five members of the National Assembly. The mandate-voluntary commission shall be held at the 38th session of the 12th session. Ten. 2017 adopted a decision to call on the members of the groups to take up to 14. 11. 2017 submit proposals for five members of the RTV Slovenia Supervisory Board. She received proposals from the parliamentary groups of the Modern Centre Party, which she proposed to Andrei Grah Whatmough and mag. Aleksandr Igličar, Slovenian Democratic Party, which proposed Damjan Damjanović, the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, which proposed mag. Stanko Premus, and the Social Democrats who proposed Matjaž Rakovac. The mandate-election committee shall propose to the National Assembly that, pursuant to Article 26(1) of the Law on RTV Slovenia and Article 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a decision be taken on the appointment of five members of the Supervisory Board of RTV Slovenia, namely: For members of the Supervisory Board of RTV Slovenia, they shall be appointed: Damjan Damjanović, Andrej Grah Whatmough, mag. Alexander Iglicar, mag. Stanka Premus and Matjaž Rakovec. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u188	There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision calling for members of the Supervisory Board of RTV Slovenia Damjan Damjanović, Andrej Grah Whatmough, mag. Alexander Iglicar, mag. Stanka Premus and Matjaž Rakovec. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 55 votes in favour and 10 votes in favour. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against 10.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing five members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council – on the basis of the sixth indent of Article 17 of the Radiotelevision Act. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to Dr Mitja Horvat, President of the Commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u189	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Dear Members and Members! On the basis of Articles 36 and 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly at its 40th session 7. 12. 2017 set out the text of the Proposal for a Decision appointing five members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council on the basis of the sixth indent of Article 17 of the Radio Television Act. The Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia provides in the sixth indent of Article 17(6) for the appointment of the National Assembly of five members of the RTV Programme Council of Slovenia, on a proposal from political parties, taking the fullest possible account of the representation of the parties in the National Assembly. Members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council appointed by the conclusions of the National Assembly 26. 1. The four-year term of office shall expire in 2018 and the National Assembly shall appoint five members on a proposal from the political parties. The mandate-voluntary commission shall be held at the 38th session of the 12th session. Ten. 2017 took the decision to invite the members of the group to submit proposals for five members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council on the basis of the sixth indent of Article 17, paragraph 6, of the RTV Slovenia Act. She received proposals from the parliamentary groups: the parties of the modern centre, which proposed Petra Ložar and Vesno Ugrinovski, the Slovenian Democratic Party, which proposed Igor Prodnik, the Democratic Party of the pensioners of Slovenia, which proposed Jožet Poglan, New Slovenia – the Christian Democrats, who proposed Dr. Leon Cloud, and the Social Democrats who proposed Cyril Baskovic. In view of the above, the Mandate-Voluntary Commission shall be held at its 40th session. 12. 2017 designated five candidates for members and prepared the text as follows. We propose that the National Assembly adopt a decision appointing five members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council on the basis of the sixth indent of Article 17, paragraph 6, of the RTV Slovenia Act. On the basis of the sixth indent of Article 17 of the Law on RTV Slovenia for a period of four years, the members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council are: Cyril Baskovič, Petra Ložar, Jože Poglajen, Igor Prodnik and Vesna Ogrinovski. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u190	The following is a presentation of the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u191	Dear Members and Members! The New Slovenia Group will not support this proposal, as it is significantly moving away from the established parliamentary practice. The RTV Act in Article 17 also uses, inter alia, a dictatorship to take account of the maximum level of customer representation in these proposals proposed by political parties to the RTV Programme Council. In previous parliamentary practice, five of the largest parties in Parliament have been proposed by one member of the Programme Council in size. So every client of one, from the biggest to the one that was in the fifth place. This time, however, there has been a significant withdrawal, namely the largest government party SMC will receive two members in this proposal, Desus one, SD one and opposition SDS one. So among these five members, representing the National Assembly or political parties in the RTV Programme Council, the relationship between the coalition and the opposition will be four to one. If we follow past parliamentary practice and take into account the order of the size of parliamentary groups in this Parliament, we should get SMC one representative, Desus one, SD one, SDS also one and NSI one. So the relationship between the coalition and the opposition would be three to two in favour of the coalition. This would in some way be a democratic division, proportionate and also in accordance with and in the spirit of this law. If we can still understand the greed of the SMC in some way, in some way we find that there is no solidarity among the opposition parties as well, to point out at such a precedent and to such disproportionate representation of coalition representatives in the RTV Programme Council. As has already been said, the New Slovenia Group will oppose and vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u192	We are done with the presentation of the Group's position. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision calling for members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council on the basis of the sixth indent of Article 17 of the RTV Slovenia Act for a period of four years Cyril Baskovic, Petra Ložar, Jože Poglajen, Igor Prodnik and Vesna Ugrinovski. We're voting. 71 Members and Members were present and 59 votes against. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against six.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing eight members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council – on the basis of the seventh indent of the sixth paragraph of Article 17 of the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the President of the Commission, Dr Mitja Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u193	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President! Dear Members and Members! The Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia provides in the seventh indent of Article 17(6) that 16 members of the RTV Programme Council of Slovenia shall appoint the National Assembly on the proposal of viewers and audiences of RTV Slovenia, universities and colleges, associations of associations or their organisations, in particular in the fields of art, culture, science and journalism and other civil society organisations, with the exception of political parties and their organisational forms. The conformity of the candidates and the fulfilment of the conditions shall be demonstrated by the evidence provided for in the text of the call. The seventh paragraph of Article 17 of the RTV Act further provides that half of the 16 members shall be appointed at the same time as the election of the members referred to in the first to sixth indent of Article 17 of this Act, and the second half shall be appointed two years later, and that is why the National Assembly shall appoint eight members with a four-year term every two years. The first paragraph of Article 18 of the Law on RTV Slovenia provides that the members of the Programme Council shall be appointed or elected on the date of signature of the decision on appointment or decision on election or on the date of appointment in the National Assembly. The second paragraph of the same Article further provides that the term of office of the members of the Programme Board shall be four years from the date set up by the Programme Council in accordance with this Act. The fifth paragraph of Article 18 of the Law on RTV Slovenia provides that the Programme Council shall be constituted when the Director-General finds, on the basis of written notices, that at least two thirds of the total number of members of the Council have been appointed or elected under this Act. Members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council appointed by the conclusions of the National Assembly 26. 1. The four-year term of office shall expire in 2018 and the National Assembly shall appoint 8 new members. In view of the above, the Commission adopted at its 38th session a Decision initiating the nomination procedure for the appointment of 8 members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council — pursuant to the seventh indent of the sixth paragraph of Article 17 of the RTV Slovenia Act and establishing the text of a public appeal for the nomination of 8 members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council — on the basis of the seventh indent of the sixth paragraph of Article 17 of the RTV Slovenia Act. On the basis of that call, 36 proposals were submitted. Thirty-three candidates were proposed, among which the proposals of seven candidates did not correspond to those conditions in the public call in full, and therefore the Commission did not take these proposals into account. The mandate-voluntary committee is at its 40th session. 12. 2017 of the 26 candidates' proposals, she aligned the proposal 8 candidates for members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council – on the basis of the seventh indent of Article 17, paragraph 17, of the RTV Slovenia Act and set out the text of the proposal for a decision. We therefore propose to the National Assembly to adopt a decision appointing 8 members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council on the basis of the seventh indent of Article 17, paragraph 6, of the RTV Slovenia Act. On the basis of the seventh indent of Article 17 of the Radio Television Act, Slovenia shall be appointed as members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Board for a period of four years: Marija Aleš, mag. Ladislav Ambrožič, Matjaž Juhart, Matej Kosher, Žiga Kušar, Marija Matilda Oresnik Ocvirk, Gasper Salobir and Jelka Stergel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u194	Here comes the presentation of the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u195	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will now say something about the proposal for a decision appointing 8 members of the Programme Council on the basis of the seventh indent of paragraph 6. We are talking about those members of the Programme Council for which the suggestions are presented to us by viewers, audiences of the RTV programme Slovenia, universities, colleges, societies, associations of societies or organisations, other organisational and civil society and so on. The members of the Programme Council may not be members of the political parties' bodies, so they cannot be Members and Members, nor can they be President of the Republic and President of the Council, Mayors and Mayors, and so on. So far, there has been some practice, some kind of gentlemen's agreement, that at least the right or those who have been proposed, who have their worldview belief on the right, moderately right, that at least part of these, maybe one, two or three candidates have come somehow under this heading into the programming world. Under this government, under this coalition, I can say that this voting machine of yours on the Mandate-Election Commission has been crushed to the end, not one candidate who would have had a worldview belief that went a little beyond your left-hand corner has been burned in this vote. It seems to me that this plurality, which you most often explain, is also evidenced in the financing of the school system or educational system, where you literally destroy plurality, where plurality is something worse, should at least apply to Radiotelevision Slovenia, which is paid through contributions by all citizens and citizens who have an electrical connection. At least here, I'd like to ask for one, we can say, a gentlemen's agreement that at least a few of these candidates among the eight would come from right-wing promiscuity. Of course, none have been chosen, so we will oppose these eight candidates in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u196	We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision calling the members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council on the basis of the seventh indent of Article 17 of the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia for a period of four years: Marija Aleš, mag. Ladislav Ambrožič, Matjaž Juhart, Matej Kosher, Žiga Kušar, Marija Matilda Oresnik Ocvirk, Gasper Salobir and Jelka Stergel. In doing so, I inform you that, pursuant to Article 17, paragraph 9, of the Radio Television Act, Slovenia will adopt a decision if the majority of all Members and Members vote for it, that is 46 or more. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u197	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues! From the call, from a set of listeners and viewers to the RTV Program Council, 16 members are named, with half of the structure being replaced every two years. When voting two years ago, when you were already a coalition that seemed to have worked effectively, we elected 8 members of the Programme Council from the quota of viewers and listeners, and at that time all eight were elected by the will of the coalition. None of them were selected at the request of the opposition. This year or days ago, this vote was repeated for the other eight programme saints from the audience and listeners quota. Despite the proposal we made on the Mandate-Election Commission, you have once again decided vehemently that all eight members will be elected in the same way as Mrs Simona Kustec Lipicer, the leader of the largest coalition party, assessed their expertise. In these two years, you voted 16 members of the Programme Council in the form of a coalition, of 29. In addition, if I add that we voted 4 more coalitions at the previous point on the proposal of the coalition's parliamentary groups, then the coalition in the RTV Programme Council has 20 out of 29 members, a two-thirds majority. In addition, let me say that there are two members of the religious community, three of the employees, so much so that we know what we are talking about. In fact, the opposition in the RTV Programme Council has no power. You have previously elected one on the proposal of our Group of Members. Tonin said earlier that they had a problem because you rejected their only candidate. In fact, in this programming world, the influence of the opposition is exactly 3%, one twenty-nine. And you're talking now about media plurality, about width, about what – none of this is true. The RTV Program Council is made exclusively like the image desired by the Left Party Coalition in the National Assembly. This is because the basic principles of the RTV Act have been violated, and we will not support this proposal in our parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u198	We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 16. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 16.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing the members of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the National Assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the President of the Commission, Dr Mitja Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u199	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. Dear Members and Members! The Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia in the third paragraph of Article 10 provides for the composition of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. It has 17 members, of whom the National Assembly appoints and disposes of 16 members and the Government of one member. In accordance with the first point of paragraph 3 of Article 10 of the Law on the Realisation of Lottery of Slovenia, the National Assembly appoints one member on a proposal from the Association of Slovene municipalities, one member on a proposal from the Municipality of Slovenia, 14 members on a proposal from the National Sports Council of the Republic of Slovenia for sport between proposals from national sports associations, municipal sports associations, representatives of athletes and representatives of trainers, while the Slovenian National Sports Council proposes to the National Sports Council 10 members on a proposal from national sports associations, of which 4 members are members on a proposal from national sports associations in the field of individual sports industries, which are on a regular basis of the Olympic Games programme, of which these national sports associations elect these members; two members on a proposal from national sports associations, of which the National Sports Departments of the Region are not a professional on a regular basis of the Olympic Games, of sport and of sport. The selection of 14 proposals from members of the Foundation Council proposed by the Section for Sport of the Republic of Slovenia for the appointment of the National Assembly shall take place in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Regulation on the procedure for the selection of proposals by members of the Board of the Foundation for the financing of sports organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. Pursuant to Article 10a, third paragraph, of the Law on the Property Transformation of the Lottery of Slovenia, members of the Council of the Foundation may not be persons who are not or are not in a position to be employed at a foundation exercising control over the Foundation, are responsible persons or representatives of organisations receiving the Foundation’s financial resources, are officials under the rules on integrity and anti-corruption, officials in the State bodies, employed in the Lottery of Slovenia, d.d., are persons holding more than 1% of the capital or management rights or voting rights in the Lottery of Slovenia, d.d., are members of the political party’s management. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 13 of the Law on the Property Conversion of Lottery Slovenia, members of the Foundation Council shall perform their work in a non-professional manner. The National Assembly and the Government shall appoint members of the Council of the Foundation for a period of five years and may be appointed to this function no more than twice in a row. As the five-year term of office for members of the Foundation Council appointed by the Decision of the National Assembly of 4 December 2012 and 20 May 2016 expires, the Mandate-Voluntary Commission, acting on the basis of the decision of the 38th meeting of 12 October 2017, invited eligible candidates to submit proposals for candidates in accordance with the first point of the third paragraph of Article 10 of the Law on the Property Conversion of Lottery of Slovenia. With that call, the Mandate-Volution Commission received proposals from 16 candidates, one candidate being proposed by the Association of Slovene municipalities and the Community of Slovene municipalities and 14 candidates by the Professional Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Sport. Taking account of the above, at its 40th meeting, on 7 December, the Commission decided on the text of the proposal for a decision appointing members of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia: for members of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia, they shall be appointed for a period of five years: on a proposal from the Association of Slovenia Dejan Zavec, on a proposal from the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia mag. Katja Koren Miklavec, on the proposal of the Professional Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Sport Bojan Bučar, Andrej Cevc, Rok Drakšič, Lovrencij Galuf, Fiona Johnson Kocijancič, Miroslav Jurjavčič, Gregor Krušič, Barbara Kürner Chad, Franc Očko, Gregor Pečovnik, Aleš Remih, Matej Sitar, Martin Steiner and Daniel Videtič. For the time being, I apologize.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u200	Given the number of candidates, I understand. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the Proposal for a Decision appointing the members of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present and 61 votes against 1. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[And against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Decision to establish the termination of the function of a member of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services. Luka Mesec, Head of the Left Group, wrote to me by letter of 16. 11. 2017 notified that Dr. Franc Trček is leaving the seat of a member of the commission on this day. Pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 10 of the Law on Parliamentary Control of Intelligence and Security Services, Article 33, paragraph 7, Article 112, and in relation to Article 202 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly shall be informed of the following decision: It shall be ascertained that, as a result of the resignation of a member of the Commission for the Control of Intelligence and Security Services, Dr. Franco Trčko shall cease to serve as a member of the Commission for the Control of Intelligence and Security Services. I hereby conclude the 29th item of the agenda. We continue with the adjourned 14th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on the mass valuation of real estate in the framework of the regular procedure. Since the Government has pointed out that, due to the amendments adopted after the third reading, the proposal for a law is inconsistent, the Government has prepared a harmonisation amendment to Article 56, which has been published on the e-club. Would you like to speak with the government about this harmonisation amendment? The State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Tilen Bozič, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u201	Thank you very much for your words and thank you for your patience. As you have also received a proposal on the table, we propose to delete the last indent of Article 56. Now a few more words, which is the reason, a few more words than you've got in your explanation to make it easier for you to imagine. Thus, Article 55 of the Law regulates the acquisition of data on the intended use of space. The original provision of Article 55 also provisionally regulated the procedure for the technical transfer of the graphic presentation of the intended use to the applicable terrestrial cadastral presentation, for which the issue of a specific implementing regulation was also envisaged. At the time of the adoption of the law, the Law on the regulation of the premises of ZUREP-2 was adopted, which regulated the procedure for the technical transfer of the graphic presentation of the intended use to the applicable land cadastre presentation at the systemic level. As a consequence, the provisional arrangements were no longer necessary in ZMVN-1 and were therefore deleted by amendment to Article 55 of this procedure. Consequently, the obligation to issue an implementing regulation on this procedure is no longer necessary, and the provision of Article 56, which is intended solely to set deadlines for the issue of implementing rules provided for in the other provisions of the law, has not been adapted to Article 55. The last paragraph of Article 56 thus lays down the time limit for the issue of an implementing regulation issued by law in substantive work, which is no longer provided for in Article 55, and we therefore propose a deletion in order to bring it into line accordingly. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u202	Anybody want to talk? The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Dear President, Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Today we are adopting a law on the mass valuation of property, which is the basis for the new taxation of property. This law was already being judged by the Constitutional Court, of course another version, and the Constitutional Court then decided that the Law on Mass Valuation was unconstitutional. This happened in connection with the Real Estate Tax Act. Why am I saying this? Because the Legislative and Legal Service, in its opinion, speaks of the repetition of the errors already declared by the Constitutional Court as unconstitutional by this law. This will essentially re-adopt an unconstitutional law, or you will be able to enact an unconstitutional law once again. The legislature points out that this is actually a high probability or that there is a likelihood that the law is against these solutions and that it is not corrected in the direction in which the Constitutional Court ordered that the law should be corrected for reasons of unconstitutionality. There is a reason not to adopt this law in unconstitutionality. The second reason is substantive. What's the point? Because this law is the basis for the taxation of real estate. This government, this coalition, is doing this by first adopting a law on mass valuation, where the tax base will be established, the value of the property, which will then be taxed under another law, the tax law. But in fact, when we do not accept both laws together, we now accept a cat in a frog or a cat in a jacket for all property properties, because they will not really know what they are preparing and what their taxation will be. This law essentially means a new taxation of real estates, on which we simply do not have data on what value it will actually be. Then only the rate should be set and the tax should be here. Look, this is one non-transparent way that this coalition quietly introduces a new property tax. Look, this isn't fair to people. Moreover, all the methods set out in this Act are not transparent. People can't calculate themselves, they can't figure out what their real value is. The law still lists some methods, American methods, other methods, third methods, and so on. In fact, people will not have what they really need. This is a transparent presentation of how to determine the tax base for all real estates. And here we are talking about all properties, including kindergartens, including meadows, including forests, even houses, including various plots, buildings, non-building land, meadows, forests, pastures and so on. Such a law is not in fact adopted. It is untransparent and will actually be a shock to people when they get an estimate of these properties. In addition, they will have a flawed procedure to actually complain. In fact, the flaw is that they can actually complain about some methodology, but they will not be able to complain about the actual value, because they will not actually get a decision, but will only get some information. Information on their value. They will be able to challenge this information, but not in a way that is formal, defined, such as the Administrative Procedure Act and so on. Ladies and gentlemen, think about it. The law has already fallen in the Constitutional Court once. Don't do that again, because the law enforcement says there's a good chance. If this law is unconstitutional – if, I say, this is decided by the Constitutional Court – it will certainly fall again.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u204	Let me draw attention to the fact that the debate on the harmonisation amendment has been held and that there has been no debate today when it was time to do so. And I really need to find out. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Tillen Bozič, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u205	Thank you for your word. I just wanted to say in essence what the President has already said that when it was time to discuss, when we also prepared, we did not have this opportunity. I would just say that we have continued our work of Law and Law, and we have aligned ourselves with them. That is why four amendments have been tabled today, which have also been confirmed by Members and thus achieved this consistency. The last thing that remained was essentially this harmonisation amendment, and we are actually concluding this story. Those things, I wouldn't go into a detailed comment, but I'm sure when you mentioned the administrative procedure, and so on. Special circumstances shall be established in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Act. So I wouldn't go into this anymore, and I would end up, unless we had any more things to do with the harmonisation amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u206	Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u207	Thank you so much for saying that. As far as the law before us is concerned, there is likely to have been considerable debate on the working body, on the committee, where everything is concentrated under this Rules of Procedure. In the National Assembly, that's how it's set up, it's more of a procedural, protocol part of the law. However, the content review was carried out on the committee with all the warnings, with all the comments, with all the opinions raised by Comrade Shircelj. And apparently this coalition doesn't stop anything. When it suits your opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, it is the only thing that is safe for you when it suits your union opinion, it is the only thing that saves you when it suits you, I don't know, the Economic and Social Council, it's the only thing that needs to be said, and so on. You're not consistent with what you're doing. Given that some of you have already been here in that coalition that has processed a similar package of laws as is now going to happen, and that this has been demolished in the Constitutional Court, the way in which you deal with these changes is, in fact, in spite of the fact that experience with a constitutional decision is already incomprehensible. It is difficult to explain that one government, which has the basis of transparency, constitutionality, legality, principle, proportionality, honesty and not know what else, allows itself in such a perverse way to introduce new legislation and some new taxation. That's incorrect. It's not right. If a system of changes in system taxation is to be run, then we have to have a package on the table. So it must have technology, and we must also have a calculation of what falls on each surface, on the individual owner. It's not like that. However, the fact that some auxiliary instrument will then determine something only means that people will be extremely difficult to complain about, that it will be very difficult to enforce, challenge matters either in the municipalities or in Durs, wherever these taxes will be carried out and collected. I don't think there's any rational reason for it to wrap itself up like that, that it's completely imprecise, that no one knows what's going to happen, except for the three or four that stand for this machine and move on. Look, if we don't know what's going to come out, what kind of product, then there's no need to run such a law through the legislative process. If we don't know if taxes are going to be twice as high, or if they're going to be in the city, I'm going to say lower taxes, and you're going to raise them in the countryside because you're going to tax agricultural areas, or you're going to unload the supermarkets again and so on and so forth. Thousands of questions are opened by such a procedure, and you can't verify any of them. Trust, given what's going on and how some things fall, it's not, it's gone. I also suggest to all those who will decide to give you serious thought. You're risking veto, you're risking a constitutional review of the law. That's almost certain. If it's not one, it's the other, and we're back to square one. I don't understand the government that in three years it's not capable of coming with some comprehensive package that's verifiable on the head and tail. There's nothing you can check on. Except that someone was saying something, as the minister had said before, that someone had justifiably refused all the charges and clues, and there was no document. And here we are in exactly the same situation. If none of our Members have dealt with taxes, they do not know the effect of this law and the consequences of what will happen, then something is wrong. I understand that everyone can't verify this, but that those who deal with the tax system who have done this professionally don't know what's going to happen, and then something's wrong. Such concealment of any government, not at all after experience and after school, which you have already experienced in the previous term, in order to allow the adoption of this tax change package in such a way.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u208	If you would like to discuss, please apply for the harmonisation amendment and not at all. Dr. Ange Logar has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u209	Thank you, President. Look, I don't agree with the harmonisation amendment because I don't agree with the whole law. If I continue where my colleague Shircelj has finished. I say even more, I say it's a fraudulent law. It's the frog cooking system, because the government didn't bring her twin, the real estate tax law with this law at the same time. I'll explain why. Look, you're gonna make the Slovenians richer with this law. Once again, the value of property held by Slovenians will be higher than it is now published in Gurs. Suddenly, the Slovenians will be richer. We know where that counts. This is also considered to be the calculation of social transfers, which means that a number of people will be deprived of the social transfers they have acquired so far due to this revaluation. Those who do not agree will have to submit to their own costs the legal opinion of a evaluator, which will prove that the price for these and those reasons is in fact lower than you have assessed. Now we come up with a problem – how the socially weak will afford it if their salaries do not even reach the poverty threshold, we know that the minimum wage for two euros does not reach this threshold, the professional opinion for 800 euros and more to prove that their property is actually less valuable. And then, on a scale, someone will decide whether or not to respect this valuation. Most people will not even notice that their property has been overvalued. And since you did not tell them, at the same time as this law, that you would also be able to pay the tax on their value, they will not be able to complain in due time. And at one point that tax rate will hit their pockets significantly more than if they had both laws at the same time and could also respond appropriately when they know what the rate is when they calculate how much real estate tax they will have to pay and also make every effort to make that price as real as it will be, not as someone will assess it. Not to say that it is extremely rude to adopt such a law, which will only be enforced at the end of the following year, under another government. Which means you give the other government chicken eggs. As soon as it comes together, this law will come into force. No real reason, except that apparently someone has a plan to reinvent taxpayers, that the state treasury will be even richer, and that it will save even a little more in the budget at work of social transfers at the expense of the poorest layer. So completely contrary to what you have committed in the coalition contract and what you publicly promote through it. It's completely contrary to everything you're publicly defending. That is why I will not support this harmonisation amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u210	Mr Tilen Bozič, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u211	Thank you for your word. Just for an explanation, we know what's on the table today. So this is the law on the mass valuation of real estate. So one is already in force, since 2006. The point is that in the work relating to tax needs, many problems have been identified. That's exactly why we decided to fix it. Multi-purpose data shall be determined and this data shall be the best approximation of the market value of a particular property. And that's clear. Taxes will be referred to in the next term, as the Government has said, and in the coalition contract you have also read what it said. However, the subsequent decision was such, I think it was wise to go into a two-phase process, to first settle this area, and then continue with some quality discussion in the widest round to bring some good solution. As far as the cat is concerned, we currently have an NUSZ, and there are about 200 of these bags. Each congregation can accept its decree on its own, and finally we too lay the groundwork for this system of transparency to be settled in time, and this will eventually be the exclusive income of the congregations, so that the congregations will have a word for it. Finally, citizens and citizens will benefit from this through a fair system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u212	Are you going to apply again? [[talking to each other]] Of course, we can do so until we reach a conclusion that they can only speak once. [[advertising from the hall]] And they weren't there. There was none. We cannot vote on this. Of course they have the right to speak. Do I ask again or do I ask more? [[advertising from the hall]] Once. Okay, both times and then we vote. [[advertising from the hall]] Then we'll take a decision if I can trust a little in politics. [[…]] But only about the harmonisation amendment. This time I will watch from the beginning to the end, and it is not enough to say that I do not agree with the harmonisation amendment, which is why I oppose the entire law. Because we've heard that before. The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Madam President, thank you very much again for your word. Look, we're in a house of democracy, and I think that Members can express their opinions in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u214	Rules of Procedure! In accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u215	And that we also have freedom of speech here. [[…]] So I think we must follow this European principle here too, and thank you once again for saying so. And to continue where Dr. Ange Logar actually ended when he talked about how, because the whole country and all people will have greater property value, their income or social benefits will be lower. But what's actually going to happen then? That people won't be able to pay their taxes. The fact that people will not be able to pay taxes will increase demand or the supply of real estate on the market will increase. Today we have about 90% of the property, real estate and other wealth, where people actually live, including other properties, weekends and so on. 90% of property ownership is owned by people. In some other countries, not 90% of all owners. In Britain, for example, there are only 15% of them; the rest are tenants. We don't have renters in our house. But when people can't pay their taxes, they're gonna have to sell these properties. In fact, they have been built in some special way over the decades, meaning that on the one hand they have relatively high value of real estate and relatively small income. And they're gonna have to sell it. and this relationship between lenders and ownership will begin to change. And this is the last, I will say, centralisation of Slovenian wealth, that this value will be concentrated in the hands of a handful of people. This law in connection with the new tax actually leads to the concentration and centralisation of property ownership in this country. And I believe, a few years from now, that this property law will be centralized and concentrated in the hands of a handful of people, that then this handful of people will find money, counselors, lawyers and so on. And if not sooner, they will then be judged by this law to the Constitutional Court. And then this law will become unconstitutional, but property will be concentrated in the hands of these people, and people will be left without housing, without real estate, because they will have to sell them. This marriage leads to this. And there's no analysis of this marriage, we don't have this analysis. As a result, it is harmful to Slovenia; it is harmful to humans; it has too long - term consequences. For this reason, we will also do everything in the Slovenian Democratic Party to ensure that the law is not enforced, in any event, even once again through the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u216	Dr. Ange Logar has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u217	Thank you, President. Look, the Secretary of State said they'd set up the system, because now we have 200 different solutions, because each congregation has a different one. Here. But we have it, and we all know we have it. And we all know how much we pay for this year. It's legal clarity. If someone does not like the payment of the NUSZ in this congregation, he still has the opportunity to move to another congregation. No, you don't. It stays where it is, because these values are about the same as they generally apply to each congregation. Now you're gonna do something else. Now you will artificially increase the value of their property without knowing how this will affect their annual property tax. Remember the falsified story of the government of Alenka Bratušek. To know how important this second part of the twins is, that is, valuation and real estate. At that time, people traded permanent residences with temporary residences only because there was different taxation according to the status of residence in individual properties. And that's why the species were everywhere, in front of Gurs and in front of administrative units. Just because of that tax. Now most people will not even know that they have increased their property value, artificially inflated by the value holders paid by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. However, when they start to receive doses for their social transfers in June of the following year, children’s allowances and so on, they will find that they have significantly more valuable property than they thought they would have before now. Can you imagine the shock for that? But you don't care because it's going to be another government. Because someone else is going to deal with it. Because it will be the same as the law when he reduced the social transfers of the minister, I think the SD in the Pahor government, and then all the anger went to the next government because they had been suspended for two years. You are now closing for a year and a half the effect of what you are accepting today. That's why I'm saying that it's pure nonsense that without a systemic solution, you're going to kick this decision without twins. And there's no reasonable explanation, except that obviously I'm explaining myself reasonably only by finding that next time you won't be a winning party, for other coalition partners I don't know, and that the next government wants to deal with this if we can't have all the neighbors dead. [[…]] There is no reason for this law now, no rational reason. Let the next government prepare this together in a twin and also in a way that will follow the adoption of the National Assembly, not just one year from now. Because if you have such a long implementation of this law, it clearly states that not all subsystems or all the measures that must be taken to enforce this law are ready. By suggesting that you are against this harmonisation amendment and against the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u218	If no one wants to discuss it again, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the Government's harmonisation amendment to Article 56. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 15. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 15.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. Is there any explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Desus Group, Mr Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u219	President, thank you for your word! Nice greetings to all colleagues and others who are in the hall! I think it is right for us in our Group to say how we will vote this time. It is clear to us all that this law, which is being prepared, is the basis for the drafting of a new real estate tax law. Probably none of us want the state to collect some extra taxes again. But we still have to say here that this income remains for local communities. It is said that it remains for the municipalities and in some ways also replaces the compensation for the use of building land. You know, we just didn't have a good experience, because some of you remember that in 2014, we actually passed a law that was then repealed by the Constitutional Court, namely the Real Estate Tax Act, not in connection with a certain part of the Property Valuation Act, which was passed in 2006, if I recall correctly. Given that it will take about 2 years to come to life before this matter is realized and in some way put into life, and that is why we, although initially opposed to dealing with it already in this mandate, have agreed that this matter will then be dealt with by any government, left or right or any government will have the basis for adopting this new law. But this law, if it does not have such grounds that it will not exceed the compensation for the use of building land, believe me, if we are in coalition or opposition, Members of Desus, those who will not vote for such a law in any way. Thus, we are for the level of compensation for the use of building land in the new law, which will be adopted in the next term. If it's accepted, of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u220	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats, Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u221	Thank you, Mr. President. The New Slovenia Group will vote against this law. New Slovenia does not buy a cat in a jacket. Ladies and gentlemen, there has been too much unconstitutionality in this mandate, and it would be time for you, who have an influence that has power, to pull it manually. 147. Article of the Slovenian Constitution speaks of taxes and says "state by law," not by regulation or regulation, by law, "prescribes taxes, customs and other taxes". Why is this proposal now unconstitutional? This is because it was pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service and, above all, by the Constitutional Court decision of March 2014. If we look at the technological process of determining evaluation models, there is a seven step in this technological process, it says: "The evaluation models are finally defined in the government regulation." The government regulation goes through the National Assembly. This needs to be made very clear to citizens and citizens. Some people don't know that. At that time, the Constitutional Court stated that, in March 2014, the design of real estate valuation models was crucial for determining the tax situation of the taxable person and therefore the models for the valuation of real estate were legal matter, not regulation or regulation. Therefore, the legal matter which is the legislator with regard to the regulation of essential elements must not be left to its original rules of enforcement, such as a government regulation. That's just one of the reasons, but there's a lot of them, too many of them in three minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to say so rightly and sincerely that we will not support this law either because it does not seem fair to us that now some new government, not before the feet, but toss some law under your feet that will determine the tax base. Yeah, it's a twin. But you didn't have enough money to bring a real estate tax law into the National Assembly. Some new coalition, some new government, look, totally normal, will have some new approach, will have a new concept. You have now made a law, you have thrown it into the National Assembly, you will accept it headlessly today with the voting machine, and the question is, when can we then have a property tax that will replace this European unique, compensation for the use of building land. Not to mention, of course, the non-implementation of the property registration law and so on. So more than too much [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u222	Time!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u223	in favour of voting against it. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u224	A self-explanation of the vote, Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u225	Thank you for your word, President. I will not support the Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estate, because it is in fact a law that provides the basis for the poor to pay taxes for the richer. This law lays down the general value of immovable property. Those who have a property value above the average will pay a lower tax, those who have less real estate will pay a higher tax, so they will pay you taxes for the richer. Market value is not a suitable form for taxation at home or farm. You never build a house to sell it on the market, but to live in it with dignity. You never create a farm to sell it on the market, but to survive generations and generations on it. Market values are determined by real estate speculators. This law will be the basis for determining the value of homes, farms of real estate speculators. And what will happen will have very significant consequences for the social situation of people, because this law will immediately have consequences for the payment of social contributions, scholarships and similar supplements from public funds that people receive to make it easier for them to survive. The market value of apartments, houses, farms, forests will be significantly higher than today, so they will fall out of these categories of aid. We will get in addition to the 400,000 people who live on the brink of poverty, perhaps 200 000 more, and many will be forced to sell their homes, their farms, which means that this is actually going to be the law for mass sale, the looting of property that people have. That's why I'm not actually going to support such a law. In addition, we need to know that this law will also divide certain areas into economic zones, and with the same pension, someone who owns a house will have the same house in one economic zone, where the lower value will pay the lower tax, while the other has the same house in the other zone, the economic zone, and will pay 15 times the higher tax, with the same pension. Same for [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u226	Time! Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, mag. Brank Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u227	Thank you. I will vote against it because, as it is, the law will surely experience the same fate as the previous one, and it is called an infamous end in the Constitutional Court. It is clearly contrary to the principles which the Constitutional Court has very clearly enshrined in its decision, and I simply do not understand how such a law can be adopted. Its consequences, given that you recognize for yourself that it is a cat in a jacket, that you do not know what it means in the coalition, what it actually means in terms of burdens, it is not difficult to predict the overestimated value of real estate, which will be the basis for overstretched taxes, will cause those last parts of Slovenian prosperity, the tradition of building your own house, the preservation of your own home to lose. This will lead to more poor people, and I personally believe that this is clearly the goal. The goal of this coalition is to create as many poor as possible, to see new people hang again at the end of the country of Slovenia, which is likely to have to share or subsidize some additional fund in this case, and you are probably counting on some new voters. Socialism is preserved in this way, but in this way, ladies and gentlemen, this country is taking what it should have: human well-being, human security and success and faster development. This law is against development, as it is, because it does not have all the elements that it should have in order to act as it does in similar countries. That's why I'm gonna go against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u228	Is there any other explanation? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 16. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 16th.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 36th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m.
