ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon! I begin with the continuation of the 26th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Marjana Kotnik Popot, Anja Bah Žibert, Iva Dimic from 2.30 p.m. to 6 p.m., Vesna Vervega until 12 p.m., Andrej Šircelj, Branko Grims, Bojan Podkrodšek, Franc Laj, Matthew Tonin from 17 p.m., Jernej Vrtovec from 20 p.m., Ivan Škodnik until 14 p.m., Uroš Prikl until 16 p.m. and Luka Mesec. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving on to 12. At the end of the day, this is for a re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government. The Council of State is sitting at the 26th session of the 20th. 12. 2016 requested that the National Assembly, pursuant to the 3rd indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, decide again before a declaration on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government. The request was addressed by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. To explain my request, I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State to Mr Milan Ozimić.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u2	Honourable Presidents, honourable Members and Members of the National Assembly! The Council of State accepted the request that the National Assembly decide again on that law, without a vote against it, on the proposal of the Local Interest Group as one of the most competent advocates of local interests. This is because, even in previous procedures for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government, warnings were not taken into account as to what this law ultimately meant for the functioning of local self-government, but the reasons and arguments concerned only some of the techniques associated with the mayor's recall or the institution's introduction. There is no reason to call off the mayors and read their function. The reason for the opposition to this law is that it is a serious disturbance that threatens the stability of the functioning of local self-government. The fundamental reason is that, by this way, the possibility of abuse is maximized, in fact, they are offered in actions. And this means that the very introduction of this procedure, a disturbance at the level of functioning of local self-government. He places the congregation in which this happens in a dead race for the time it lasts. It can take a very long time because gathering and expressing discontent is, of course, possible at any time. And he puts the most decisive actor in the field of local self-government in some form of defense, he has to defend himself because of charges, because of some dissatisfaction, which is not defined in any way, what is the reason for collecting signatures for the request for early withdrawals. This is a fundamental question. Everything else we have heard in rejecting the arguments of the applicants is technical and marginal. The greatest danger here is abuse. These are not protected by any means, nor are they defined by a reason which may be subject to some dissatisfaction with the operation of the mayor. So, exclusively some political reasons. And with this institute, local self-government is introduced, legalized or legitimized, as you wish, or the process or anything related to some kind of politicization, some undeclared accusation, and a lot more. This is harmful to the functioning of local self-government. In all the findings also related to this, it was said that local self-government works well. Of course, there are certain excesses on the part of the mayors, which should be so and so, and it might even be good. The whole debate has also somehow been reduced to defending some mayor's lobby. Not at all! At least as far as the arguments put forward in this veto and in the explanation of this proposed veto are concerned, this is not the case. It also makes no sense, because all current mayors will go to elections, regulars, such and different ones, and then, of course, these, let's say, will have the opportunity to sanction voters who are now given a quasi-correction exam. On the other hand, as far as the impact is concerned, look at the procedure and the safeguards that have been discussed so much that they are in the protection of mayors and [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Winterfell. I'd like you to finish. Time's up.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u4	Thank you. They are reduced at the final stage to this effect that it is almost impossible to resolve the mayor after this procedure. This would, of course, make many completely unjustifiable targets and as such a disruption to the functioning and resolution of those problems that are still in the middle of the mandate to be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u5	Thank you. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Magi. Baby Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Members and Members, the other present, a very nice greeting! The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government is held at the 31st session of the Committee of the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government. 1. 2017 addressed the request of the Council of State that the National Assembly decide again on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government, submitted to the Assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first signed Janie Möderndorfer and adopted by the Assembly at its 25th regular session 15. 12. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Representatives of the proposer, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Public Administration, the representative of the State Council, the representative of the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia, the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia and the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service participated in the work of the committees. The representative of the State Council presented the reasons for the request for re-decision on the law in more detail in the introductory explanation, stressing that the State Council did not support the law because it believes that the system of local self-government in Slovenia is stable, which can be jeopardised by the establishment of an institution to recall the mayor. Such a partial solution in the field of local self-government is clearly based on the belief that it is not necessary and does not constitute the necessary upgrade of the legal framework to promote citizens' participation in decision-making in the municipality. This is a destabilising element which may undermine the still fragile balance of local self-government in Slovenia as it introduces a period of uncertainty in the middle of the county and their mandate. In the opinion of the Council of State, mayors will be given the opportunity, in the second and third years of their term, to propose an invitation to vote on the mayor's resignation, under daily pressure from the threat of recall, and therefore most of the time will only deal with the justification of their conduct, while not taking unpopular, perhaps even urgent measures in the interest of the congregation. At the time of presentation of their opinion, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service stressed that the State Council's statements in the request for re-decision referred to issues related to the assessment of the appropriateness of the legal regime. The content of the request goes beyond the scope of the tasks of the Legislative and Legal Service set out in Article 27 of the Rules of Procedure and is therefore not to be determined until the reasons given and thus not to the request of the Council of State. The representative of the Association of Municipalities of Slovenia stressed that they strongly oppose the solutions of the law in association. The operationality of local self-government is crucial to its stability. In fact, the signatures for the initiation of the procedures of the mayor's recall will be able to be collected throughout his term of office, and this will put pressure on him secretly or openly. The representative of the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia added that if the recruitment is legal, the work of the mayor will be difficult, as there is always someone in the municipality who is dissatisfied with the work of the mayor. He also pointed out that all state officials should be treated equally, not as a higher responsibility criteria, but only for the mayoral function. On behalf of the proposer, it was pointed out that it was a matter of law that had been coordinated for more than a year and a half in the National Assembly and that all those interested had the opportunity and opportunity to participate constructively in their creation. He warned that the appeal procedure was a much more demanding procedure than the referendum. Security guards are numerous, and the required quorums for final decision-making are, so to speak, murderous. If the mayor's resignation is only established in Germany, he sees no reason not to apply to us. The law even implements the Constitutional Court's request for harmonisation of this issue. Following the discussion, the Committee voted on the following opinion: The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government is appropriate. The Committee adopted its opinion because it had been voted on by the majority of the members of the Committee. Thank you very much, Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u7	Thank you very much. To explain my opinion, I give the floor to Mr Jani Möderndorfer, representative of the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u8	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen! Nice greeting also to the mayors, who have honored us today with their visit! The fact is that the very institution of recall, which was very clearly included in the so-called package, which has systematically regulated the issue of restrictions in the run-off and performance of all the functions of love in the Republic of Slovenia, has been placed solely and only for one reason. This reason is that mayors can also be restricted to the possibility of running when an intervention in passive electoral law has been proposed. By saying that we will make it impossible for all officials in the country if they have been legally convicted of having the right to run. And that was also the only only reason that the recall institute was dealt with in this package. Therefore, today there are claims that we are not treating all the officials equally and that we are now punishing only the mayors by recalling, ordinary diversion and dissuading the substance of why this package has actually been dealt with. Because if that's true, why was there so much support for the whole package if it was already known that it was the mayor's recall? So these two things just don't compare. Today, to claim in the Republic of Slovenia that every official has the same status – forgive me if someone speaks on purpose because he does not know and does not know the law or the constitution, or because he clearly wants to deceive by doing so. The second thing that seems very important to me is that we know that the Mayor's resignation is an established institute in many European democratic countries. They also have local self-governance there, and the local self-governance system due to the recall institute was nowhere to be lost. It's just a ruse. It is, however, the fact that today the mayor is the only official in the country who, for political reasons, cannot be resolved because of corruption during the term of office. The fact is also that today the mayors in the Republic of Slovenia – and I am talking about most mayors – will in fact have no problems with this call because all the mayors present all the projects in their electoral programme, are elected and then strictly implemented. And in principle, people are happy with their mayors. However, two or three mayors would certainly have problems if they had come from this mandate. I believe that the mayor's withdrawal institute would never have been established in the way it is – there will be an example, one, two for sure, it is also good for us to see and test how the recall institution works in the Republic of Slovenia. But at the principal level, believe that the mayor, for whom the signatures will be collected and the quorum will be reached so that he can go to the mayor's resignation, will resign first. This is this manna that we see today in the mayors, when it is more than clear that they no longer deserve this city, insist on the end and they are reviving the people's availability. Let me point out that it is not only an anti-corruption measure or anything like that, but it is also a measure of giving voters a third chance to participate in the so-called participation of the authorities. If one is a referendum, the other is certainly an election, the third is also a recall. This, of course, is a major step forward for voters and voters. Interestingly, all the polls show that the mayors do not really want to do this, but not the electorate and the electorate. Let me draw attention to the fact that this institute was not created in our programme, but in the human uprisings of 2012, where 30,000 citizens and citizens signed and demanded the establishment of the recall institute. And with that, we actually did something that people wanted. Let me just say one last thing. In fact, this law deliberately forgets that we regulate not only the recall, but also the representativeness of one of the associations of municipalities, which is becoming equally the other two associations, but also the so-called municipalities in the Republic of Slovenia. I will present the reasons for how we cooperated with the Council of State in the presentation of the Group's position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer, of course you know better than I do, because you were already a Member to not welcome people who are guests on the balcony simply because this was agreed with the leaders of the parliamentary groups adopted in 2005 and renewed in 2012. And please, let's all stick together. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to present the opinion to Mr Nejc Brezovar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Public Administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u10	Dear President, honourable Members, honourable Members! On 28 May 2015, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted an opinion on the proposed amendment to the Law on Local Self-Government, which supported the proposal for a law. While the proposal was recast in the debate in the National Assembly, it now contains two key solutions. First, the law introduces the institution to call off the mayor, as it is its fundamental objective and purpose to strengthen the integrity of municipal officials and to ensure political responsibility. Secondly, it sets out the criteria for granting representation status to associations of municipalities. With regard to the entire package of so-called electoral legislation as well as the ZLS-S, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly expressed certain concerns and, with regard to the amendment of the Institute, the Mayor's recall stressed that it belongs to the area of electoral law, which requires particular sensitivity to regulatory regulation. The positions of the service were in many ways identical to those of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. With regard to the proposed amendment to the Law on Local Self-Government, we find that the concrete solution to the institution calls on the mayor to have sufficient safeguards to ensure that the abuse of this instrument does not occur in practice. At the same time, it is worth noting that the Government supports the addition of Article 86a of the Law on Local Self-Government, which will also grant representation status to the association of more than half of the municipalities, as this provision is intended to take account of the situation and the specific role of the municipalities. With this solution, the National Assembly will follow at the same time the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia of November 2016. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u11	I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. The text shall be given by the Group of Non-Aligned Members, for which Dr. Bojan Dobovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u12	All those who accompany this meeting are respected! We will vote in the Group of Non-Aligned Members in the same way as before against the law. Why? Because we believe that it is necessary to systematically arrange for the recall of all Members, of all officials, but not in the manner proposed. Therefore, we note that since the arrangement is intended only for mayors, possible abuses will occur and the system will be unstable. We know that all the modern answers are at local level and the globular answers are those that can take Slovenia to the place that it deserves in Europe. Legal warnings, legal dilemmas. There is no principle of proportionality. There is no principle of legal certainty. Thus, a number of legal problems will also arise. I particularly stress that it will be very difficult to carry out the whole process and that the feasibility of the law, as I have repeatedly pointed out, is questionable. If we are already dealing with the subject, then let us regulate it as modern European countries do by regulating not only liability for crimes but also financial transactions and conflicts of interest and a competitive clause. These are the right ways to follow them. We are voting against all possible abuses, irregularities and impossibility in the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u13	Mr Jani Möderndorfer will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u14	One of the main issues at the time of the Court's withdrawal, we are talking about the Law on Local Self-Government, was, of course, the debate that took place in the National Assembly, and not least, the discussions with representatives of the local community association. Of course, we have listened very clearly and very carefully to where, in fact, the fears the mayors are alerting to so that the law itself can bring about certain anomalies. First, let me start by saying that it was a big fear if it was just eight — someone even told the two families that they would decide and they would be able to initiate the recall process. This, of course, does not hold true for a simple reason, for anyone who knows a procedure that I cannot even describe in this short period of time today is more than clear that it is so demanding that there really must be a high level of consensus in every local community or in every congregation, so that the recall can occur. The initiative hasn't been called off yet. Therefore, it was one of the fundamental reasons that we raised this level, that the process would in fact be significantly more demanding than the referendum. For the referendum, you need 2% of the signatures, while for us to even start, that's 3%, that's the callback. Secondly, three stages were introduced on a proposal within the debate in the State Council. It is said that the first phase is an initiative, the second is a requirement and the third is, after all, the election itself or the will of the people, which is expressed on the basis of the referendum. Even if this appeal succeeds, let me say that 90% of the participation in the last elections must be, which means that in any case, the guardian is sufficient. In addition, when the institution itself could be established, one of the associations of the municipalities, one of the associations, was proposed to increase from 8 months of the first year to 12 months and that before the elections, it was said to have been 1 year first, is now set to 16 months. Moreover, it was also outlined in Article 1 of Law, which, of course, confirms that it is not really an equalization of all officials in the country. Of course, there was a problem with why the congregation council was not called back at the same time. It's two different organs. For two organs that have been selected differently. The mayor is elected by a two-way majority system, and the municipal council is always elected by a proportional system or in municipalities where less than 12 municipal councilors are involved in a one-way majority system. Which means that if you want to call off the official, you can only call him back in the same way that he was elected, and of course that's feasible, not by a proportional system, but by a system called a two-wheeled majority system. In addition to the mayors, only the President of the Republic is elected after the two-way majority system. The President of the Republic is the constitutional category of the official, which means that we cannot compare him with the mayor and, of course, he also has a special status, and last but not least, the President of the State has a constitutional charge. By this logic, I can say that the President of the country can be called off while the mayor can't. Let me also say that, in fact, there is one of the fundamental issues that must be respected, that we must stop this logic, that we are all equal, I speak for officials, which cannot be. And I can tell you that quite a few constitutional lawyers have made very clear what I believe that if the law is passed, we will also come to a conclusion and that such an assessment is difficult to implement and would be difficult to write for ourselves, because nowhere in the constitution is there any record in the constitution that the mayor should not be recalled, even more so, the mayor is not a constitutional category. And since we have comparable international practice, I can argue that the mayor's recall itself is the only democratic tool that voters and voters have at their disposal. We will therefore re-support the law in the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u15	Dr Vinko Gorenak will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u16	Good afternoon. On the balcony, I see a bunch of mayors, I count about 10 when I was in their office, I got coffee everywhere, what kind of asshole they ever gave me, and they all called me a good day. But everything was also within the framework of the law, and we did not go against corruption. I'm sorry I can't say good day. I'm sorry. I can't say good day, Mayor. In fact, there's such an orn in this house that they've accepted it so you can't say good day. But you came to the house of hypocrisy. I'll get to the bottom of this right now. Look, there's no MP in this room, according to my assessment, no one who got more than 50% in the elections. All of you have received I don't know how many times more than 50% in elections, because otherwise you wouldn't be mayors. So in the local environment, you have a significant, significantly greater reputation than anyone who sits in this hall. Anyone. However, there was a political nomad in this room, just before you saw him for this 701 - voice booth. 701 votes in the polls, do you have any idea? The one who wrote the law that you should be recalled; under certain conditions, of course, let us now leave the details. We all know what this is about, one first year, and the last year, and so on and so forth. At the same time, however, today we are voting on a veto for those people who are not ready to call themselves off. So we will not call ourselves back, we will protect ourselves for a full term, we will continue to walk, some, not all, this does not apply to this part, from one party to another, we will go to LDS, then to Jankovic, then to Bratuškov, and then finally to those in power, and this is SMC. You see, it's called political nomads, and this man writes the law. And the law will, of course, be if they are not reasonable – today you should be here, ladies mayors, in the evening when the vote is held. Press that key there State Assembly, Sessions, and come to the vote, and you'll find out exactly how someone voted. You will see exactly tonight, a minute after the vote. And there's only one real option, just another real possibility that this marriage will fall. And it is that Mr Han's mind prevails, who was the mayor, who knows what it means to be a mayor, who knows what it means to be a Member, but is not a political nomad. And he had already voted against it. And I call primarily on the SD, including Desus, for God's sake, don't be political blinds and bastards and vote against this law. We will vote against this law because this law is unfair because this law is incorrect. The people’s proverb says that first he clears his threshold and then the neighbor’s. Let us first adopt a law whereby the people can call us off, us Members who do not have the same reputation as the mayors. Only then can we talk about everyone else, from the state councillors to the President of the Republic, until I don't know who else, and finally accept the same law as mayors. It's the last time. And never, I stress, can we ever adopt such a law that will be unfair to those who have the greatest reputation in the local environment, as the first. And this marriage is unfair, unfair. Once again, I urge you to be sober, because they're not there, you know, in the middle. These are the people who have come with one drink and will leave with the next. In short, we will strongly vote against such a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u17	Thank you, Mr. Gorenak. I don't want to, but I have to say this, let's leave those opening remarks, but calls in positions are not allowed or desirable. Mr. Jani Möderndorfer. We have to move on from the point of view. Jani Möderndorfer, please, you have a procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u18	Presidents, let him calm down first so he can do what needs to be done. In fact, yesterday he roared in this hall, and the day before yesterday how wrong it really is, because of this same pay phone, with the SDS Group, and now he has the same vats for everyone else in this National Assembly. The procedural proposal is, of course, because in the process it is necessary to draw attention to what it is actually doing, namely this duality played in the National Assembly. However, as Presidents, I ask you not to wait until the end of the debate in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. In the course of the debate, it should be noted because otherwise it has no effect and no point at all, because this procedural proposal can now no longer correct anything. But we repeat it like a broken record from day to day. When it suits them that when it does not suit them, they scream from these benches, how they do not respect the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. Möderndorfer. I respectfully felt that I would allow Mr Gorenak to give his opinion to the end, and then I would warn him. We continue to present the views of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, for her mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am also very sorry that you have allowed this speaker to take political account with other parties, with those who do not have the same opinion as a certain Member, my predecessor, so that I also hope that the President will be able to react in a timely manner in the future and will not allow this to happen. Otherwise, I would like to present our Group's position on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government. The proposal for a law on local self-government is one of the proposals in the electoral legislation package, which ended last November in the decision-making committee on internal policy. It is fortunate that the mayor's recall did not require a two-thirds majority, so the committee's proposal only received support. On the other hand, some wonder whether it is right to take certain measures only for mayors, but not for certain other officials. From the adoption of the law at the December meeting of the National Assembly until the veto of the State Council, and to this day in the Desus Group, we have discussed thoroughly the possibility of establishing the mayor's recall institute. During the talks, there were dilemmas as to whether the bill provided sufficient safeguards to avoid abuses due to those who would abuse the institution of recall to seek political benefits. It also raised the question of how the new mayors would cooperate with the existing municipal council, as it does not change at the time of the new mayor's appearance. On the basis of all the facts, the Desus Group has not been fully unified with regard to the possibility of the mayor's withdrawal. For some Members and Members consider that the restrictions on the request for withdrawal are sufficiently high and that there will be no abuse in practice. It is also clear that the recall can only be carried out once within the mandate of each mayor. The second part again considers that such a proposal is difficult to implement and therefore is a questionable point of the proposal. Of course, it is also a dilemma as to whether it is right to introduce the mayor's withdrawal institution into the system, while still allowing the convicted to run. But once again, let me make it clear what we stressed in the parliamentary group when this law was passed last December, which means that the possibility of banning candidates from those who have sinned against fundamental values in society and were therefore also legally condemned has fallen into the water because of some opposition Members and Members. Certainly, however, this did not happen because of the voters in the package of electoral laws. In the Desus Group, we have supported the electoral legislation package all the time, and in the future, we will also work to finally regulate the dilemmas of running for the lawfully convicted. However, I believe that the majority, regardless of the outcome of today's vote, would like individuals, both mayors and other officials, to be able to do so much reason and, unfortunately, to give up on their own in cases of dispute, which is unlikely to be too unrealistic to expect. However, the fact is that the mayor's recall is known in Austria, Germany, Slovakia, Poland and elsewhere. There are obviously still fears with us, but as has already been said, for some people, while others would like to move forward, as many countries of the European Union have already done. The last institute to call off the mayor is not as rare and unusual as some would like to show him. There are quite a few models across Europe where the mayor's mistrust cannot be carried out differently than by a human vote. In view of what Desus said in the vote on the proposal for a law, we will not be a completely uniform opinion. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u21	Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u22	Thank you for your words and your warm welcome to everyone on behalf of the Social Democrats' Group, where we will once again reject this proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government. For we believe that the intervention only in the field of local self-government by this law is once again one of the deviations from how the electoral system should be fully regulated, so that we can talk about how we can effectively implement the constitutional provision which speaks of the power of the people in Slovenia. And if the authority of the people is in Slovenia, then we must be aware of everyone, both those who perform tasks at the state level and those who perform tasks at the local level, to carry out these tasks for the benefit of the people. To this end, of course, all these mandates are already limited in themselves. The mandate of members of the National Assembly, the President of the Republic and, of course, the mayors and members of the municipal councils is limited, so that, when we talk about local self-government, people can decide whether their trust has been sufficiently established or not. In this case, where the law has been amended, it is said that it is necessary to restrict or disable the exercise of all these functions in the event of the performance of the function if the official is sentenced to unconditional punishment for more than six months. This is certainly one of the reasons why people need to be taken very seriously and placed in the system, whether they still have confidence or not. It is true, however, that this is also an extremely difficult legal issue, how and how a procedure for restricting electoral rights for an individual should be implemented. And that was also one of those important legal aspects in all this process of how to carry out this procedure to the end. Unfortunately, it has happened that, in fact, only local self-government has been provided with votes that we must vote on this law again today, and in all other cases, the laws have been rejected. And given that we are Members of one of those officials who should certainly first resolve the view and the way in which to resolve ourselves and then talk about others, this is one of the additional reasons why we will vote against this law in the Group of Social Democrats. In particular, we would like to stress that it is extremely important that local self-government, however, has its stability, including independence, and that any such intervention that is before us today can also constitute an intervention into the stability of the functioning of local self-government or individual municipalities. It is not to be overlooked that, in fact, because of the good functioning of the municipalities at a time when measures were taken to address the consequences of the economic and financial crisis, the local communities contributed to the fact that the work in their environments was smooth, there was no major interference with investment. And this principle has led Slovenia to have virtually all the time economic growth, which has also led us to overcome significantly more successful all these crisis measures and the effects of the crisis than would have happened if local self-government had not done so successfully. From this point of view, too, it is inappropriate for local governments or mayors themselves today to stand out as those who need to be treated differently from other officials. It cannot be compared, we agree with this, all the officials, the President of the Republic is certainly the highest position. The directly elected President of the Republic of Slovenia is, in fact, related to the manner in which the mayors are elected, but if we make a comparison between the President of the Republic and the mayor, there is a significant difference in what part you are responsible for leading and managing and responsible people. The same applies, of course, to other forms of officials, or to the State Council, which is loved by its system, the State Assembly after the second, of course, the secular system again after the third. All of these are issues that must be addressed in an integrated manner and prepared a comprehensive electoral law measure in Slovenia, and this issue also needs to be clarified. This is what we have been warning the entire time in the Group of Members, but we have not been sufficiently heard. That's not how we're going to support this marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Dr. Franc Trček will present the position of the Joint Left Group. Here you go, Dr. Runcho.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, chairman. Hello, everybody! When I say it together, it means the mayors, too. It is very unusual to welcome foreign delegations in this house, but we do not welcome people who are most likely to perform the most difficult functions in the country. It's easier to be a minister or a minister than a mayor, believe me. It's an attitude. In the United Left, we have been advocating the establishment of an institution of recall, not just the mayors. We have repeatedly expressed our disappointment at the Government and the coalition that they have failed to make the same quality proposals for all other officials, including us. We certainly expect to do this. But the fact is that only one law in the whole package has passed the legislative process, and in our view this is not a good enough argument to reject it yet. The fact that the Constitution and the current electoral system have not yet allowed the possibility of recalling a Member cannot also be a fact of opposition to the exercise of the possibility of recalling the Mayor. Now I'm gonna put something in here. You know, this argument goes so that, by this logic in this country, we couldn't regulate anything. Because if we don't fix everything, we can't fix anything. That would mean, by the same logic, that we can't raise minimum wage because we don't settle all wages. Let's think about what we're slapping in the temple of democracy. Come in. Among the arguments that call for re-decision by the State Council, I quote, “the threatened stability of local self-government”. In the United Left, are we sure that we can ask for silence, Chairman? [[…]] In the United Left, we are convinced that the stability of local self-government does not endanger the mayor's withdrawal institute. Its stability is threatened by mayors who spend more time in the courtroom than the mayor and mayors who have more affairs than successful projects in the municipality. And apart from mayors who care about the welfare of citizens and citizens last or among the last on the list of priorities, others have no reason to do so. Most of you, including most of you who are sitting up here, are doing your job well, and I don't personally understand why you're afraid of being called off. The execution of the recall itself contains a number of safeguards that prevent its misuse for political purposes. In fact, in practice, any political act of opposition due to the required number of voters is almost impossible. The stability of the local self-government institute of the mayor's recall is by no means a threat. It is threatened by the austerity measures of the current and all past governments, threatened by a bad legislation that should have been recast long ago, threatened by a minister who does not deal with it. Above all, it is threatened by a completely ineffective funding system, which is virtually out of touch with the actual situation in individual municipalities and with a potential specific problem at different ends of Slovenia. These are things that threaten the stability of local self-government, not the establishment of a democratic institution that they know elsewhere. As it is said, if the mayor is committed to democratic principles and the interests of citizens and citizens, the Institute must not be afraid and there is no reason to fear him. If that's not the case, his fate will be written by those who chose him. In the United Left, we will also support the bill this time. And since I still have some time, what is the problem of the fourth century of constitutional parliamentary democracy in Slovenia? A derelict political culture, to be understood by lawyers. We all have to ask ourselves how we got to where we are. Let us be frank, many who are in executive power have gone into oversized shoes. I've told myself many times that I still don't feel capable of being mayor. And that's what I mean. It would have been easier to be a minister, here, very frankly. We are also responsible for this co-responsibility for all citizens and citizens, and we must imagine who we elect. "Oh, they're all the same, because they're all thieves" and then we have what we have when we're yelling over this temple of democracy. And after almost a quarter of a century, we must urgently go into reform of local self-government, which is a process that takes place there for about two mandates, with serious preparation, in which some comparable societies have gone. We also have to go because the local government, as we have it, has played a positive role, and we are now able to have a higher quality of life, better infrastructure, and, as I often say, the stream does not stop at the municipal border. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u25	Mr Jernej Vrtovec will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Dear mayors, one good day! Even though I'm about to receive a reminder. The first problem in this law is the moral problem that Members can have if this law is voted out, the institution calls off the mayor. Despite all the dilemmas around the whole process – and so was yes – the proposal for a bill calling a Member was before us, but it is only a recall of the Mayor's Institute and – we can have Members of the moral cat to adopt legislation, to protect ourselves, to adopt legislation that will call someone else off, so to speak, to give an instrument for the entire recall. That's just the first of the arguments, that's the moral problem. Secondly, this law is certainly a problem of proportionality. The problem of proportionality, an intervention in electoral law, which is one of the fundamental political human rights. Any interference with electoral law is problematic or must be highly reasoned. This proposal does not take this argument into account. Again, we may wonder what the aim is, therefore, of the proposer who wishes to implement this institution by any means to call off the mayors. I stress, without any liability, which will actually allow two families to gather together, in smaller Slovenian municipalities that is enough, 15 people, and they will start with this procedure. So, these vats, this argument is completely undecided in this law, without any liability, it will only be a political account. And that'll do it. The second major argument or problem that we cannot support this law in New Slovenia is that it is not a guardian. There are no safeguards to protect this institution from possible abuses, for surely this institution will trigger numerous political accounts in the municipalities. The proposal itself is demanding, it has quite a problem in the coming stages that someone collects enough signatures, then secondly, thirdly and then also actually wins the elections themselves. But at the first vote or even at that introductory stage, there is already a problem there. Someone who goes to this institute to call off the mayor may not go for a serious purpose to call him off, but will go for a political campaign and start this process either one year before the elections and the campaign will start, instead of working for the municipal council to function, doing good projects, it would be impossible. The mayor will be dealing with someone else throwing prey at his feet and wanting to call him off, as it were, even though he may not have a real range. And it will cost the operation of the entire congregation, rather than the congregation developing and dealing with projects that would be good for people. Once again, there are no guards here, we would understand that someone has been convicted, legally convicted, and that we are going to the Institute of Callbacks of this mayor. I do not understand, however, that we are going to call off someone who can do well, but because he is doing well, one political group or any other group of people in the congregation will decide that we will undermine the reputation of a good mayor and want to undermine him because of winning the next municipal elections. It is also recalled by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and other institutions, the financial burden. This is not the case here, nor is it the recall and duration of the function of other municipal officials, nor is this stipulated in this law. And for this reason, the question is whether this instrument of the mayor's withdrawal would continue, even legally, before the Constitutional Court. We will therefore vote against this law in Novi Slovenija, as well as in the first place. I stress that the proposal is not appropriate, but at least on my part this moral problem is that we call someone off and we have protected ourselves from this institution in the past. And also the problem of proportionality is, intervention in passive electoral law alone, someone has been elected, and speculation and political accounting itself then through the whole process. So, these are three arguments that Nova Slovenije is against.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u27	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The re-decision on the law will be carried out today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 15th item of the agenda. I'm breaking this agenda. We're moving to 14. On the basis of the information provided by the Commission, the Commission considers that the Commission is not in a position to assess the compatibility of the measures with the internal market and that it is not in a position to assess whether the aid is compatible with the internal market. The proposal for a recommendation was tabled by a group of 19 Members and Members with Mr Jozet Tanke, the first to be signed. With regard to this proposal, the group of 19 Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to Mrs Nadi Brinovšek's representative.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Nice greetings to everyone in the hall! Since the beginning of this mandate, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group has been constantly reminding the Ministry of Health that systemic changes need to be made, and we point out all the irregularities that are taking place in the health field. In this mandate, we have proposed 19 urgent meetings of the Health Committee. We also drew attention to health irregularities by interpreting the work and responsibilities of the Minister of Health in September 2016. Finally, in the first half of 2016, the Commission for the supervision of public finances was also reminded of the poor functioning of public health institutions. All our warnings have gone in the direction of alerting the Minister, as well as the coalition, to the unregulated health situation, which has also undoubtedly resulted in an increasingly poor functioning of public health institutions. According to data from the Association of Health Institutions of Slovenia, public health establishments operated significantly worse in the first half of 2016 than in the comparison period of 2015. At the end of 2015, 8 public health institutions showed losses and 29 public health institutions in the first half of 2016. These 29 public health institutions have created a 20.9 million-euro loss, which is 268% more than in the 2015 comparative period. During the first half of 2016, there were 14 hospitals that produced 19.3 million losses. The largest losses were incurred in the first half of 2016 at UKC Ljubljana, 12.7 million, followed by a 1.8 million-loss champagne hospital and a 1.3 million-loss UKC Maribor. By comparison, only three hospitals recorded losses in 2015, amounting to EUR 9.8 million. Thus, 23 hospitals operated positively and showed a surplus of € 10.4 million. However, it is worrying that in its January-June 2016 business information, UKC Ljubljana stated that at the end of the year, expenditure will exceed the realised revenue by EUR 20 million. Thus, the UKC is simply planning to lose EUR 20 million for 2016. At the same time, the UKC Ljubljana Council did not take any serious action. And let me repeat here one of the few statements made by the Director-General of UKC Ljubljana at the time of his term of office that he will quote: “Reduction of the deficit and rationalisation of funds in UKC Ljubljana.” Let me remind you once again that UKC Ljubljana had 6 million losses at the end of 2015, 12.7 million losses in the first half of 2016 and are simply planning 20 million losses at the end of 2016. And I wonder where the Director-General's promise is now to reduce his income, to reduce his deficit and to rationalise the UKC's funds. Where is the responsibility of the board of the UKC now? The question also arises why the Ministry does not react. At the very least, the UKC Council should take remedial measures and the Ministry should request an analysis of the causes for each of the losers separately, not just for UKC Ljubljana. But none of this happened. At the meeting of the Health Committee, the President of the Association of Health Institutions of Slovenia announced that the results of the operation in the nine months 2016 were even worse than expected. And so on. He also pointed out that the results of public health establishments are expected to be even worse at the end of 2016 than was predicted and that the Ministry of Health does not hear or hear the problems that the association draws attention to. It is difficult to bear the fact that the directors of public health establishments that have produced the loss and, of course, the Ministry states that the poor functioning of public health institutions is mainly blamed for the reduction in the prices of health services, the impact of the additional costs of the release of progress in 2015 and the implementation of their programmes above the planned. Why can't he handle that fact? Do you, my dear colleagues, not ask the question why some public health institutions do business positively? Out of 26 hospitals, 12 hospitals created 2.8 million euro surplus in the first half of 2016. Did these hospitals have paid services differently than patients with loss? Perhaps these patients have not paid the benefits of relaxing their advancements? Were these hospitals doing less than they planned in their work programmes? Or if we look at concessionaires, do they work with loss? The fact is, no. I have to say, these institutions didn't do anything responsible. Their leadership and the world of the institution have not acted responsibly. The fact is that losses in public health establishments are increasing in the six months, nine months and will increase by the end of 2016. Once again, dear colleagues, in 2015 23 hospitals operated positively, creating 10 million euro surpluses. Only three hospitals lost in 2015, and the biggest loss among all these was UKC Ljubljana with 6 million euros. In the first half of 2016, 14 hospitals operated with a total loss of €19 million. At the meeting of the Health Committee, we drew attention to the findings of the Court of Auditors' audit report on the work of the Ministry of Health, which states that the Ministry has not yet established the conditions for the establishment of a hospital network, that the Ministry has not yet established the actual state of the medical equipment, that the Ministry is still making investments, even though the resolution on the national health plan provided that investments are excluded from the Ministry and transferred to public institutions. Also, hospitals still do not maintain adequate records relevant to the identification of needs and the timely planning of purchases and the prioritisation of purchases of medical equipment. Furthermore, the Court of Auditors notes that public procurement is very often chosen as a criterion or criterion by the lowest price provider rather than the full cost of the supply and ownership of medical equipment. We also drew attention to the Ministry of Health’s response report to the Court of Auditors and to the Court’s audit report. Let me also mention that the Ministry of Health did not submit a response report within the prescribed 90-day period to the Court of Auditors. This was submitted only after the Court of Auditors reiterated its call for the Ministry to submit a response report within 15 days at the latest. In this post-revision report, the Court of Auditors, of course, concludes that the Ministry has failed to demonstrate a satisfactory measure relating to activities that would undoubtedly contribute to the determination of the optimal or at least minimum utilisation of medical devices. So hospitals still have no priority in buying medical equipment, nor do they have short-term and long-term plans to purchase medical equipment. So they will also be able to continue to supply such expensive medical equipment, which, as we know, for example in UKC Maribor has been unused for two years. Undoubtedly irregularity and all these shortcomings have an impact on the functioning of public health institutions, unfortunately in a negative sense. In this regard, I should also draw attention to the recommendations on the implementation of the procurement of multinational medical devices in public health institutions through intermediaries issued by the Commission in October 2016 to prevent corruption. In its recommendations, the Commission concluded that the current method of obtaining certain medical devices through intermediaries from multinationals to hospitals is causing patients too high purchase costs and that some intermediaries are carrying out unjustifiedly high costs. The Anti-Corruption Commission has also imposed a number of measures on hospitals and the Ministry. How many of these measures do you think have already been removed? And these findings of the Commission to prevent corruption undoubtedly have a bearing on the negative functioning of public health institutions. At the meeting of the parent committee on this point, we have also pointed out that the negative operation of hospitals is also clearly affected by the withdrawal and the operation of the emergency centres themselves, which we have, of course, also when adopting the emergency medical assistance regulation. We have also pointed out that there is a need to amend legislation, which the Ministry has been alerting for more than two years to prepare a public network for a primary and secondary level, that there is a need to amend legislation in the area of the transformation of public health institutions in accordance with EU law, that more powers and responsibilities should be given to directors of public health institutions and, of course, more responsibility to the public health authorities. We also drew attention to the political recruitment of this minister and the coalition. Furthermore, we have noted that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, by decision of March 2015, has established contracts for needles, diapers, gloves and catheters as common public contracts. But on the basis of this order nothing happened, after two years nothing. The greatest pest, however, that somehow detracts our health care, is unquestionably corruption. We are witnessing the exhaustion of health care, public money flows from public institutions to private pockets, so hospitals are also in red numbers, which is dissatisfied with the Government, suffering the profession and on this account also our citizens. Waiting types also influence the negative functioning of public health institutions. 246,000 Slovenians are waiting for an examination, an investigation, or an admission. That's every eighth Slovenian, dear fellow. And it would take 120 million euros to eliminate these waiting lines. 120 million euros. We have therefore drawn attention to this whole issue at the Health Committee meeting on the negative performance of public health institutions and proposed the following conclusions: to examine the network of health service providers at secondary level; to carry out all the necessary activities that will undoubtedly contribute to determining the optimal use of medical facilities; to start with the Ministry of Health with a record of the procurement of medical equipment in public institutions; to take measures to reduce the deficit in public health institutions; to report within six years on the performance of public health institutions; and to present an optimisation of the procurement processes of materials and equipment. But this time, of course, the coalition did not support us. The Ministry of Health is nothing. There are no measures under the Coalition Treaty, no changes to the legislation contained in the Government's normative plan. Nothing. All that happens in the area of health care is affairs, corruption, losses in public health institutions, long waiting lines and departures of our young doctors and patients abroad. This is our health care, my esteemed colleagues. And do we really deserve such health care? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u29	On 10 January 2017, the proposal for a recommendation was addressed by the Health Committee. As the Committee did not adopt the points of the proposal for a recommendation after the discussion, the Chairman of the Committee concluded that the consideration of the proposal for a recommendation at the meeting of the working body had been completed. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u30	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Good-bye, everybody! As stated by the Committee on Health at its 19th meeting, the proposal for a recommendation submitted by the Group of Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank was considered as the working body. No amendments were tabled within the time limit set by the Rules of Procedure. The opening arguments were presented by the applicant, Mrs Jelka Godec, and stressed that in the first half of 2016 the results of public health institutions were lower than the same period of the previous year in order to create 29 public health establishments with a total of over 118 million outstanding obligations. The Ministry of Health is responsible for setting up a public health service network at secondary and tertiary level. Within the network, determine which activities will be carried out at individual hospitals. This also establishes the necessary medical equipment for an individual public institution, together with the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia, representative chambers and the Association of Health Institutions of Slovenia, to agree on a programme of compulsory health insurance services, to define the capacity and to determine the scope of the services. The reasons for the losses in public health institutions should therefore be sought in the unregulated area of the purchase and use of medical equipment, in the overpayment of equipment and medical material, in the management of institutions in the system itself, which needs comprehensive reforms and renovations. The proposers recommended that it is high time for the Ministry to respond more decisively to all the irregularities we are facing. Ms Nina Pirnat, State Secretary of the Ministry of Health, stressed that the Ministry of Health, in accordance with the resolution, would prepare a network of health professionals. The public health service network, health programmes and services will be planned in accordance with the needs of the population and the capacity of the existing healthcare system. The Ministry of Public Health is monitoring the entire budget period, guiding, overseeing the proposals and requiring the implementation of the relevant measures. The implementation is a project of joint procurement of medicines and medical devices with which the Ministry actively intervenes in the operations of hospitals. The Ministry also actively formulates policies in the field of investment in facilities and equipment. The debate highlighted that we have been talking about losses in public health institutions for the past 20 years, and the responsibility of the ministry is increasing. The conditions under which hospitals operate are exacerbated, problems are of a systemic nature. There are many reasons for failure of business, problems are comprehensive, they concern the areas of financing, networks, organisation of activities, pay system and also the management of institutions. For the standards and materials to be used, the barrier is also the profession itself, which is often not sufficiently harmonised. In accordance with Articles 128 and 171 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the proposal for a recommendation together and did not adopt it. On the basis of the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second paragraph of Article 61 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the President noted that the consideration of the proposal for a recommendation on the issue of the deterioration of the functioning of public health institutions in 2016 had been completed on the home labour body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u31	I give the floor to Ms Nina Pirnat, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, to the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u32	Thank you very much. I wish a good day to all Members of Parliament and Members! In accordance with the Resolution on the National Health Plan 2016-2025, the Ministry of Health will jointly prepare a network of health care providers for the public by 2021, at several levels, at primary, secondary and tertiary levels. We must be aware that the network is not something permanent, but is dynamic, because, in particular, in times of major demographic changes and growing population needs, it is necessary to respond, respond to health changes, monitor the development of new health technologies, taking into account, of course, the capacity. We are currently finalising the preparation of a primary health care strategy. In fact, well-functioning primary health care is essential for stepping to the secondary level. The planning of a network of performers for a secondary level is then based on the principle of increasing accessibility to quality health care and on the principle of ensuring high quality hospital and outpatient specialist activities. Access to quality and safety health services for all will also be a key starting point for the specialisation of public health institutions in specific areas where we are facing less frequent diseases and conditions. The Ministry of Health monitors the operation of public health institutions throughout the budget period, in particular UKC Ljubljana, UKC Maribor and the other 24 hospitals, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia. It shall guide, monitor, propose and require the implementation of appropriate measures. Systematicly planned and optimally implemented investments and transparent rational procurement of medicines and medical devices naturally have a significant impact on hospital operations. Investments are systematically planned, taking into account the needs of all hospitals, being carried out following prior confirmation and inclusion in the development programme plan, taking strictly into account both public finances and public procurement legislation. The completion of projects already started has priority in the implementation of these projects. Some of these, such as diagnostic and therapeutic services in UKC Ljubljana, started in 2005-2009 and should be completed at that time, and we are finishing them today. The second segment of the investment is equipment, exposed to important expensive medical equipment. The Ministry fully followed the requirements of the Court of Auditors based on the findings of the audit report on the efficiency of management of medical equipment, with an emphasis on expensive medical equipment. At the end of 2016, the Ministry established a record of the so-called expensive medical equipment, the equipment which was dealt with by the Court of Auditors in the context of that audit. The remaining medical equipment will be registered in public health establishments, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia, on the basis of a directive on the management of the records of medical equipment of the Ministry of Health dated 1. 8. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Ministry has drawn up a list of all the equipment for which a single record is established and will be established in the coming months and will also serve as a basis for integrated treatment and optimal management. The Ministry, in cooperation with the Association of Health Institutions of Slovenia and UKC Maribor, is implementing a Central Price Record project aimed at building a modern information system that will ensure comparison of the achieved prices of materials in public health institutions and will help in the future to reduce the costs of the purchased material in the long term, to eliminate the dependence of supplies from the individual supplier of equipment and to ultimately reduce the cost of operating health operators. On 19 January 2017, the first presentation of the application took place and the publication is expected at the end of the month. The Ministry is constantly monitoring the annual and annual operation of public health institutions. We must be aware that for a number of years some institutions have shown greater difficulties in ensuring the balance of expenditure with the available revenues and in providing liquidity funds to pay off their obligations. As it is said, the operation of public health institutions is influenced by a wide range of conditions and ways of financing operators, networks and organisations of public health care, payment system, management and management. The 2016 report of the Ministry was before you, so I would like to make only a few points for 2017. In 2017, the current resources available to the ZZS do not allow the price of health services to be raised as, despite the expected increase in ZZS revenues, most of them are targeted at covering increased costs for medicines and long-term hospital absences. However, we estimate that, in 2017, operators' operations could be stabilised in the medium term by an average of 5 % linear increase in the value of health services, which means an additional EUR 80 million, with additional resources available to finance operators in accordance with the Government's decision, which relates to the purchase of claims from unpaid contributions to the CFSP insurance and the transfer of funding for those costs that do not constitute the provision of health services in the framework of traineeships, specialisations and research tasks to the national budget. In the long term, the introduction of new accounting models for the payment of health services or health activities will have an impact on the improvement of operators’ operations.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u33	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary of State. Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is addressed to Mr Branko Zorman, Group of the Modern Centre Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u34	Dear President, distinguished representatives of the Ministry and honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In opening, I would like to say that in the Modern Centre Party, we are committed to a quality and effective health care that will be accessible to all citizens under the same conditions. In order to achieve this objective, it is necessary to have very clear objectives and our objective has been known since the beginning of this mandate. This is, of course, a strengthening of public health, taking into account its financial sustainability, with a focus on the preservation of citizens' rights and a clear separation of public and private health activities. It is our responsibility that our health system, which has stagnated for many years and has not been given sufficient attention by politics, restore vitality, modernise and bring it closer to both patients and doctors, health workers and others involved in this network. Why is public health so much emphasis in the opening part? Because today we will talk in the context of the consideration of the proposal for recommendations on public health institutions and before we open the debate, we must be aware that they are organisations that carry out public service, i.e. activities of special social interest, and therefore are defined as non-profit organisations. This means that the aim of their operation is not to create profits, but to provide public goods and to provide as much public care as possible and to provide the best possible services available. Therefore, the success of public health institutions cannot be measured by profit, but by the number of services and the way in which services are offered, which on the other hand does not justify those who are making a loss. And here it is primarily in the management of these institutions to provide a financially sustainable system. In order to achieve this, many examples of public health institutions show, according to the information publicly available, these are reports on the operation of public health establishments published on the Ministry of Health’s website after years. We can see that for the first time since 2009, the long-term negative business trend is upwards and that public health institutions in 2015, for the first time since 2009, are achieving a common positive business outcome. For example, in 2015 23 out of 26 hospitals ended up with surpluses, indicating that significant shifts are being made in the right direction. The assessment of the applicant recommended that the functioning of public health establishments be worsened is unfounded in these circumstances. We agree, however, that business should be better, at least in individual cases, and that there is room for business optimization in this area. In particular, the proposal recommended that the applicant do not have the data and that its findings are based on unfounded assumptions arising from partial data in 2016. Once this information is known, it will also be published publicly as it has been in the past years, and every citizen will be able to check the business results of the individual healthcare institution and see where the losses have been created and where the surplus has been. And so today we can only check back losses, but for 2016 we can only speculate, as the proposaler does at this point. If we look at the losses in public health institutions in the past, for example, in 2012, and we all know who was in the government at the time, 12 hospitals since 26 have been dealing with losses. Today only 3 and in 2015 only 3. The total deficit of hospitals at the time was more than 13 million, almost 14 million euros, today six times less, good 2 million. For example, UKC Maribor was at the time dealing with the loss of almost EUR 6 million, currently operating with a profit of almost EUR 1 million. And we could list it, colleagues. Not to say that the business outcome of hospitals has deteriorated significantly over the coming years, in particular due to the measures taken on time by the same government. For example, in 2013, hospitals operated on 40 million deficits, prices of health services were low, technical and administrative personnel decreased, doctors' operations were limited, and we are all aware of the difficulties we have today as a result of these measures. You see, under such conditions, this government has taken over Slovenian health care. Today, talking about the deterioration of public health institutions can, of course, also make sense, as there is always room for improvement and much work will have to be done in this area. The proposal for recommendations that we are considering today will not be supported by the SMC Group because the recommendations are drawn up in such a way as to indicate that the basic competences of individual institutions and their tasks are unknown by the proposer. Moreover, the information on the recommendations is misleading, as it is based only on partial data for 2016, which is very incorrect for the applicant to generalise on all public health establishments and to give the wrong picture of the business. Of course, all of this raises the question of whether it is a deliberate deception against the public in order to conceal what has been done right. Some of the results of good work are already visible, some measures need time to really feel them at the implementation level. Let me re-emphasize. No one denies that the field of public health institutions requires constant regulation and optimization of work processes, cash flows and so on. We believe that better results can be achieved every year in the future with hard work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u35	Marijan Pojbič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go, Mr. Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u36	Your Honor! What we have just heard from Mr. Zorman, I think what was said is maybe what he sees and sees personally. But if I asked patients, it would probably be a completely different picture. SMC would not be able to boast in this place because it really has nothing to boast about. Now let me focus on the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that, despite the big words, there have been no changes in the operation of these institutions in the world of health and administrations. Clearly, these exchanges were primarily about taking over and controlling these institutions, not about their functioning better, more efficient, with less corruption and, above all, more transparent and with a clear aim of reducing the losses of public institutions, better and more efficient business arrangements, which would also result in reduction of waiting types, reduction of corruption, etc. It turned out that these actions were exclusively for the personnel tsunamis and for the operations of our personnel and for the control of the money that flows into these institutions. According to the Slovenian Democratic Party, this is unacceptable, unacceptable and for users, of course, that is all of us, very harmful. When we decided in the Slovenian Democratic Party to put forward a proposal for a recommendation on this problem of the deterioration of the functioning of public institutions in 2016, we did not do so in order to employ the government or coalition with this problem, but we did so only on the basis of data which, in the event of the extremely poor functioning of the health system for the Slovenian Democratic Party and, in particular, for patients, are very problematic. To list some of the key facts arising from the audit report Management efficiency of medical equipment with an emphasis on expensive medical equipment, no 320-6/2012/160, of 10 November 2015, the post-revision report Correctional measures for the review of the efficiency of management of medical equipment with an emphasis on expensive medical equipment, no 320-6/2012/172, of 20 June 2016, and from data from the health magazine Novis, Report on the results of operations in public health institutions during the period January-June 2016. All of these data show that the situation in 29 health establishments in terms of business and financial situation has deteriorated in the past year. This can be read from the data of the Association of Health Institutions of Slovenia, which we have also seen in our media. The fact is that in the first half of 2016, 29 public health institutions created a loss. Their liquidity has also deteriorated, with a total of EUR 118 million outstanding. In the first six months of 2016, the total revenue of public health institutions was €40.4 million or 4.7% higher, compared to the same period in 2015. Of these, there were 31.7 million euros or 5.1% higher in hospitals and 3.8 million euros in health care homes or 2% higher in other institutions, while 4.9 million euros or 10.7% higher in other institutions than in the first half of 2015. In this period, however, the expenditure of the institutions was higher by EUR 55.3 million in all public health establishments, or 6.4% in comparison with the first half of last year. In healthcare homes, expenditure was higher by €7.5 million and 4.1% compared to the first six months of 2015. In the first half of 2016, 29 public health institutions showed losses and 8 at the end of 2015. Of this, 14 hospitals operated negatively in the first half of the year and at the end of 13 health institutions and at the end of 2015 3. Among other institutions, in the first half of 2016, they re-operated with the loss of only two institutions, which is the same as at the end of 2015. Those who did business negatively together generated 20,5 million euros in losses. The biggest loss among hospitals was created by the University Clinical Centre Ljubljana, amounting to EUR 12.37 million, plus EUR 74 million in debt from previous years, and also owes suppliers around EUR 100 million. In addition to some of the points made by the Court of Auditors, such as the fact that the Ministry of Health still does not have adequate information on the state of the medical equipment with which it could monitor and plan the management of medical equipment, it is also estimated that there is a risk that short-term planning for the purchase of medical equipment in hospitals consists mainly of internal purchases and that public procurement is very often used as a criterion or criterion for the choice of the provider of medical equipment and not the total cost of ownership of medical equipment and so on. All these data show a very clear picture of the functioning of the health system and all of us are alerted to the urgent need to act. Apparently, the current minister and newly appointed teams by the government coalition and the government itself, Mir Cerar, are creating conditions that are becoming increasingly less manageable in the field of the health system and can result in a complete collapse of the health system. Such a situation or situation in this system cannot in any way be in the interest of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Moreover, in the Slovenian Democratic Party we are convinced that it is far more useful for the Slovenian people that the entire government, together with the current coalition, withdraws and at least does something good or useful for those who have been deceived and deceived, because they have voted for the far worst government team so far.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u37	Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacič will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, a very nice greeting to all! The problem of poor public institutions is not a new topic. We've been seeing her for at least 20 years. The reasons for poor business are, of course, different, from poor management to the consequences left by the financial and economic crisis on public health finances. Of course, it would be easier to blame the directors if they could not manage money and personnel, but the matter is not that simple. We do not claim, of course, that there are no such directors who are not doing well at the time, but we must admit that they have worked in extremely poor conditions, which are of a financial nature and also, frankly, of a systemic nature. Nor can we place all the burden on the Ministry of Health, not in this composition and not in previous compositions. We must be aware that health costs have been rising somewhere since 2008 in all European Union countries, from 2 to 4% per year. Most countries have acted wisely and have been able to compensate for rising costs in an appropriate way, but not ours. We didn't even know how to take advantage of the times of economic growth, which means that we allowed huge savings to be made right at the expense of health care, which, of course, accelerated the difficulties in the operation of public institutions, rather than starting to solve them at the time, reduced the costs of materials and medicines, limited the number of personnel and their salaries, and the prices of services rose instead of falling. Therefore, it is very difficult to say that the poor functioning of public institutions is only the responsibility of poor management, but the problems, as I have already mentioned, are, above all, of a systemic nature. And for this very reason, Slovenian health needs a comprehensive and comprehensive reform. This not only means reform in the field of health, but also in other areas. Because the consequences of the irregularity of other areas are, unfortunately, most painfully reflected in health care, but of course, they are felt by patients. As I have already indicated, financing for health care, finding new resources, cleaning the health register, while also rewinding the pay system and the way public institutions are managed and managed will have to be primarily regulated. The fact is that the pay system is definitely weak and unstimulating, which certainly also affects the quality and extent of health services provided. And if I'm talking about other areas that are causing health problems with their irregularity, let me also make them a little bit more specific. One of the main problems that make the work of public institutions more difficult has been the outdated law on public institutions, which also regulates the management and operation of institutions and the powers of management staff. This is a law that falls under the authority of the Ministry of Public Administration. In the last few governments, he was not expected to be changed by any competent minister, although the law is urgently needed for change. In their work, public institutions are also bound by the Public Procurement Act, which could save a lot of money, to prevent corruption if this law were optimal. This law also falls under the authority of the Ministry of Public Administration. These are only two laws under the jurisdiction of other departments, and there would be several more that are under the authority of other departments and need to be amended. The fact is, in the past, the country has often been very macho about health care, both in the area of salary limitation, the restriction of employment and the reduction of health resources in past years' budgets, by burdening the health treasury with expenditure that does not fall within this area. We must be aware that we need payment discipline at all levels and areas and more money for public health, because we are still among the countries that provide for health care at least. With higher funding, however, it is necessary to take measures in other areas, which I have already mentioned, if we want public health institutions to start doing better, that health workers will be paid so much that they will continue to do their work with the satisfaction that the staff will be sufficient and that, finally, patients will feel that the economic situation in the country is being rectified. We have not confirmed the recommendations proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u39	Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, nice greeting! The resolution on the National Health Plan, adopted by the National Assembly and prepared by the Ministry of Health, aims to achieve the best results, to increase the responsibility and efficiency of healthcare management in order to improve governance and governance processes. Public health institutions should therefore optimise governance, which can already be done today, by taking responsibility by management, better financial and professional internal control, as well as by external, revised way of awarding performance and efficiency, in particular employee involvement and leadership for progress and development, and by tightening the conditions for professional and managerial skills requirements and experience and taking responsibility. It is no secret that the operation of public health establishments during the period 2009-2014 has been affected by the reduction of many measures taken, which have significantly deteriorated operating conditions, caused over-expenditures, increased inefficiencies and thus large debts to suppliers. The measures, which have led to the negative effects of public health service operations, have enabled the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance to operate positively and mostly relate to the linear reduction in prices received by health service providers. At the same time, there has been an increase in the volume of health-care programmes, in view of the growing needs of the population for health services and thus the longer and longer waiting periods. It is estimated that during the period of implementation of these austerity measures health services prices decreased by approximately 18 %. Moreover, the increase in the contribution rates in the new Health and Health Insurance Act 2013, which is significantly lower than proposed by the then Minister of Health, has put public health institutions in even greater liquidity and financial difficulties, which have sometimes been phased out in the last two years as we record economic growth. But unfortunately, the negative business of public health institutions exists and is becoming a growing problem. According to the Ministry of Health, systematic and optimal investment, transparent and rational procurement of medicines and medical devices also influence the improvement of the functioning of the institutions, so the Ministry, through a joint procurement project for medicinal products and medical devices, is actively interfering with the improvement of hospital operations with a view to eliminating corrupt risks and ensuring the cost-effective use of funds for purchases and standardisation of medicines and medical devices and ensuring a uniform, maximum quality of health services. On the basis of data on the consumption and costs of medicines in hospitals in 2010, the Ministry notes that average purchase prices for the same medicines vary widely between hospitals. For certain medicinal products also more than 20%. On the basis of these findings, the Ministry launched activities in 2011 to carry out joint public procurement of certain medicines, which this year represented the highest costs for hospitals at the annual level. The procedures already carried out show that public procurement in health is the right path and that activities must continue and seek to standardise purchases for all hospitals whose home country is the country, as well as health homes whose founders are local communities. In early 2015, the government also adopted a Programme of Action of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Prevent Corruption 2015-2016: zero tolerance for corruption. Among the measures is the measure of centralising and informing public health procurement, and the beneficiaries of the measure are the Ministry of Public Administration and the Ministry of Health. At the beginning of this mandate, the Ministry of Health began to reorganise the areas of procurement of expensive equipment. The Ministry also obtained the estimated value of equipment from hospitals before the procedure was carried out and saved funds on this basis. Significant savings have been achieved, namely a 30% lower price relative to estimated values, which is the objective and purpose. Simple solutions cannot be found at this time. All the negative situation that has arisen and turn the trends to a better one is somehow not – but we have a plan to fix things and point them in the right direction. While we are aware by the Social Democrats that the path to success is long, thorny and will require many major interventions to be followed in order to be able to follow the path mapped. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u41	Matjaž Hanžek will present the position on behalf of the Joint Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Chairman. Such discussions should slowly be included in the calendar of the National Assembly because they are becoming folklore. Every three months, SDS or Nova Slovenija submits a proposal recommending that they may criticise the public health system for several hours. This criticism is empty because it does not result from the correct definition of the problem. Therefore, it does not offer any useful solutions. The business outcome of public institutions is influenced by many factors, but there is no doubt that funding is the main factor. Slovenian governments are under-funded for public health care because the health insurance institution cannot formally have a loss, the consequences of savings are known in hospitals. Hospitals may react by ceasing health care, in which case the drink is paid by patients who do not come in line for treatment or examination. In most cases, however, hospitals do not reject patients, so they have losses. The main measure to improve the situation is to increase public funds for health. Given that the proposal comes from the right opposition, I will take Austria for an illustration. The Austrian State and the municipalities of health care allocate 7.9% of gross domestic product. Slovenia, for example, uses only 6.6% of gross domestic product for health services. On the other hand, Slovenia devotes almost 1% of gross domestic product to the military, while neutral Austria consumes only 0.6%. By the way, if Slovenia agreed to NATO's requirements and increased military spending to 2%, it would require an additional EUR 400 million per year. Of course, this money cannot be obtained differently from the reduction of pension funds, social services, health care. Therefore, for us in the United Left, any increase in military expenditure is unacceptable. As it is said, the proponents do not analyse the reasons for the lack of public institutions. The direct cause of the deficit is the administrative downsizing of health services prices. These were reduced three times in the crisis: the Social Democrats' Government reduced them in April 2009 and then reduced by the SDS government in May 2012 and January 2013. That's why our hospitals provide more services than they used to, they also have higher costs, they get less pay. The first logical measure would therefore be an increase in the prices of services, in particular because the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia has higher revenues, but this proposal is not in the recommendations. He's not, because we should also acknowledge the responsibility for the situation. It is of particular interest that the SDS recommends to the Government the measures already to be implemented by the Janša government, but apparently they are not. If I give you just one case. One of the recommendations concerns the problem of data collection, which we have heard today, I don't know how many times, about the exploitation of expensive medical devices. We can read this in explanation: data have not been collected since 2011 because the Ministry of Health services have failed to unify themselves on the form. As far as I know, the Government led the SDS from 10 February 2012 to 31 March 2014, which is why its President and Minister Tomaž Gantar of Desus allowed this data not to be collected due to the incompetence of officials. Therefore, the recommendations offer no real solution. Freezing prices should be proposed, but not done by the applicants. They propose, however, the creation of a record of expensive devices which should already be introduced by the SDS government. Whoever monitors the vote in the National Assembly knows, of course, that the SDS, instead of measures to increase the revenue of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia, supports measures to reduce them. Let us recall that the SDS supported the NSI amendment of the Social Security Contributions Act a few months ago. The introduction of a social cap was proposed there. If the law had been adopted, the Institute would have lost 339 million euros a year at the expense of the Ministry of Finance. In short, on the one hand, they are criticising the Minister for not providing sufficient funds and on the other hand they are voting in favour of a proposal that would, of course, make it possible for the Institute and health care, in particular, to lose 17% of all revenue. The list of wrong measures is, of course, very long. Let us remember that New Slovenia proposed a new Income Act last June, with which the state budget would lose 470 million euros, as assessed by the Ministry of Finance. This novel has been advertised as a social measure, but it would primarily benefit employees with the highest wages. In particular, a minimum wage worker would gain only 6.41 euros per month with a single overall relief, while a bank board member would obtain 154 euros per month or almost a thousand 850 euros per year. With this measure, the country would lose almost a quarter of all income. However, we know that income is also the income of the municipalities, but it is by law that the municipalities are obliged to provide primary health care. Such measures would further impoverish the municipalities and create conditions for the issuance of new concessions. Finally, I must mention an important measure for a better health system, which is also not included in the recommendations. It is the abolition of supplementary health insurance. When a government proposal was published last week, a media campaign against it was launched immediately, even from the kind of government coalition. The main argument is still somewhat pervasive, the public understands that the new duty will be socially fair, the message is clear that 80% of the population will pay less than they have to pay now. However, the second major reason for the removal was silenced by most commentators. This reason is simple: commercial insurance companies have extremely high margins, around €60 million of our premiums remain insurance companies, are used for marketing, for unnecessary operating costs, for capital reserves and, of course, for profit. By abolishing supplementary insurance, we can literally bring this €60 million into the healthcare system overnight. While an additional €60 million per year cannot save everything in the healthcare system, it can certainly save a lot. Compared to what EUR 60 million in the healthcare system means: at six months, the total loss of public institutions amounted to less than EUR 17 million, so we can cover more than three times the loss of health care institutions by abolishing supplementary insurance. If the law actually allows certain services to be paid from the budget and if supplementary health insurance is abolished, the level of health resources will increase significantly. Therefore, the abolition of supplementary insurance is actually in the interest of all inhabitants, and not only of those 20% with the highest income, who will pay a little more after the new one. The abolition of supplementary insurance brings more resources for health services, more services mean less waiting for interventions and for review. In this way, less self-payment will also be possible, which has grown so much. I'm gonna end up here. I suppose it is clear from the foregoing why we do not support such recommendations in the United Left. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u43	The text is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jernej Vrtovec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u44	Hello! Discussions on the losses in public health institutions are really becoming a constant, but not just a constant in Parliament, but a constant in the sense that the responsibility of the ministry and responsible people is increasing. The strict conditions under which hospitals operate are not the only reason for their poor functioning, but problems arise or remain, in fact, at a systemic level. The financing of health services, the health care network, the pay system and the management of institutions, all of which calls for a thorough overhaul of our health care. The policy of avoiding reforms and additional debt has brought us into this vicious circle and it will be very difficult to get out of this circle if we do not take a more concrete bite into the problem itself. However, attention has been given to the alleged reform of the law last week, which, in our view, will further exacerbate this situation, at least in our view. I continue to look at the very causes of the poor functioning of public health institutions in our parliamentary group. Slovenia therefore has one single health insurance company offering compulsory health insurance, i.e. the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia. And there is virtually no competition in this segment. In other words, all citizens depend on the performance of the business and I stress, including the supervision of one insurance undertaking itself or on its success. Sanitation of the health status of citizens depends on whether the ZZS monopoly is able to operate successfully. And let's see what that was like in the past, and we get answers. Taking into account the fact that this is one of the largest financial funds in the country which, in fact, consists of a regulation which denies any need for actuarial calculations and which is supervised itself, exposes the country to an extremely high risk of collapse of the entire health system due to this monopolistic structure of the entire market. In addition to the exceptional risk, the monopoly on the compulsory health insurance market also represents the possibility of creating disproportionate operating costs, which are passed on to the reduction of healthcare funds, allowing for the failure of negotiations with the pharmaceutical industry, hospitals and suppliers of medical equipment and other technical devices to generate profits for the public health system that citizens must pay. In fact, there is no guarantee of a choice that would allow them to move to any other health insurance company that allows compulsory health insurance and is more efficient in the use of insurance funds. Therefore, we firmly believe that further growth in voluntary insurance should also be strengthened, and legal provisions should allow its development, i.e. the opening up of a market for new forms of insurance, such as long-term care insurance, negotiation negotiations, etc. or enable them to carry out compulsory health insurance and thus take the first step towards competition. To competition in this area offering compulsory health insurance insurance services. We Christian Democrats therefore argue that the way hospitals are managed and supervised is ineffective. And it's hard to be wrong, because let's just look at the numbers and we're getting our answer. And taking into account the manner in which supervisory authorities are appointed and operated, it is impossible to establish liability lines and responsibilities in the hospital in a uniform manner and consequently the consequences of failure to manage and supervise them. In New Slovenia, as is already known, we are committed to changing the organisational structure of hospitals, because we want to arrange it according to the pattern of economic associations. Voluntary insurance companies are also certainly prepared to seriously invest in the investment financing system and offer this alternative management of hospitals on the basis of cost-effectiveness. And we are also in New Slovenia against further delaying the cost and process specialisation of hospitals and against stalling by applying good practices from abroad in this area. Nor can we support the hospital structure, which does not even want to verify that additional financial resources can be provided by specialising in hospital activities. We're basically wandering around here in a fog. It is also necessary to eliminate the monopolistic situation of health service providers and to establish a competitive position on the market where the supply meets and, on the other hand, demand. In the Slovenian health system, therefore, the country is the owner of hospitals, subscriber and payer of services as well as regulator. Thus, such a system regime does not allow users to choose the operator, so Christian Democrats support the elimination of monopolies and we propose that certain hospitals be turned over to the management of private institutions, for example pilot projects as one of the possible solutions. And we understand the current pay system in health care as a mechanism that actually punishes quality and productive and rewards quality and non-productive. We believe that citizens and citizens have the right to know the quality of hospitals and doctors, which they also pay through their health insurance contributions. In fact, we do not want to participate in a health system where the quality of hospitals is not public information. Well, if I finish. We support the recommendations and it is unreasonable to avoid competition and to strengthen the monopoly, regardless of past bad practices, also through the proposal, so to speak, of the new health reform.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u45	The word shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, to her mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u46	Nice greetings, respectable colleagues and colleagues! I have told myself many times that health care for this government is the same as banks and banking problems for my government. And if a number of recent governments have actively taken action to resolve the situation, this government is hard to attribute to it. Yeah, I guess my government could do more, rule in front of us, rule in front of us, but at least we started, and at least we moved a few small stones. About the health situation, and in the broadest sense of the word health care, we spoke only in this mandate for many hours, I think, for a few days. In fact, the session does not go away so as not to discuss health problems, but it is obvious that these discussions are, unfortunately, barren, because there are no results. Nor is there a long-awaited health reform to address the problems that Members of Parliament are reminding us about, which doctors are talking about, especially the patients most in need of this reform. As the title of the recommendation itself dictates, problems are serious. The business of health institutions has deteriorated in the last year, despite the fact that more money is available in the last year, and we are talking about some 100 million euros more. A few 100, 300 million euros is more in the health treasury than it was in 2013. 300 million euros. There are several contributions collected, more people are employed, unemployment is declining, economic growth is stable and positive. This is a statement, one of the ones with which the President of the Government, Mr Cerar, always has the greatest joy and even pride to serve us. However, in the first half of 2016 the performance of public health establishments is lower than the same period of the previous year. The loss was created by 29 public health institutions with a total of 118 million outstanding liabilities. The largest loss among hospitals was generated by UKC Ljubljana at 12,3, UKC Maribor at 1.3 and a Shempeter hospital at 1.8 million euros. At the end of the year, the results are certainly significantly worse. And these numbers are the reason that we have to worry about everything. We are also concerned every time the Court of Auditors proposes the operation of a public institution. And although we have established internal controls, controls, although we are supposed to appoint competent members for sacred institutions that then appoint the best directors, the Court of Auditors usually discovers a lot of errors that are reflected mainly in money, it makes few recommendations that are not taken into account, because so everything is okay, so says the Government, unfortunately. It is therefore incomprehensible that neither of the recommendations proposed has been adopted by the National Assembly or the competent committee. These recommendations, as a colleague from the SMC said, should point to a lack of knowledge of the area. Since we haven't read them yet, I will allow myself to read them so that everyone and those watching us will know what we're talking about. This is what the recommendations say: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia recommends to the Government and the Ministry of Health to examine the network of health service providers at secondary level; the National Assembly recommends that the Government and the Ministry of Health carry out all necessary activities that will undoubtedly contribute to the determination of the optimal use of medical devices; the National Assembly recommends that the Government and the Ministry of Health begin with a record of the purchase of medical equipment in Slovenian public health institutions; the National Assembly recommends to the Government and the Ministry of Health that they take appropriate measures to reduce the deficit of public health institutions in Slovenia; the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia recommends that the Government and the Ministry of Health report on the performance of public health institutions within half a year and present the optimisation of the procurement processes of materials and equipment. And now, dear fellows and colleagues, only one can tell me which of these is unacceptable? Which one is unacceptable? If that's unacceptable, then it's obviously okay in health. In addition, the coalition could, of course, propose an amendment, complementing a recommendation that would replace the proposer, but not. In health, it's obviously the way it's supposed to be. At least that's what the government says. The only problem, they say, is that we don't have enough money for health care. Not enough money due to the payment arrangements made by the Government, not enough money due to the inoptimal use of funds, not enough money due to expensive purchases. Not enough money, although there are more €300 million in the system. As I have said many times before, I am really looking forward to a presentation of health reform, although I am increasingly convinced that you will not be. We're only going to put more taxpayer money into health care, and we're not going to change anything. Well, as the government says, everything works great and optimal. And it's a shame that you don't finally realize that in health care everything is not as it should be, and let's start acting together.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u47	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a recommendation. As usual, the representative of the proposer has the floor first, Mrs Nada Brinovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u48	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear colleagues, we have often listened to the Prime Minister of the Government that the priority of this government is health. Can we say today that the priority of this government or SMC members is health care? One representative, of course next to the President, is sitting here in the Chamber. And that's supposed to be the priority. I have to respond to the position of Secretary of State of Pirnatova, who said that the public network will be prepared in accordance with the health resolution we have by 2021. Thank you, Mrs. Pirnat, for those words. Look, at all the meetings of the Health Committee, we argued over and over again whether it was a public network or not, and again, you said it was, the other one wasn't. So, there's no public network for the premium area and there's no secondary, and you're going to do it by 2021. I hope this works out for you. You also said that the Ministry monitors business and oversees the operation of public health institutions. If you were to follow this, I agree, I have nothing here, but I would ask how you control it. What about the fact that you're politically suffocating? If somehow otherwise controlled, you would probably also have some incentive for your representatives in the holy public institutions – in the UKC, which is the biggest loss, even for the president – to have the UKC take some kind of remedial action that would still be necessary for the UKC. You also say that the Ministry has done everything that the Court of Auditors has ordered you to do in its report. No, Mrs Pirnat, at the parental board meeting, you have said nicely what you have done and what you have not done, what you have not yet done, especially those measures in the post-revision report. I must say, in your position, you have correctly identified the impact on the functioning of public health institutions, but unfortunately we have none of this. We do not have a public network, we do not have a law under which to give directors of public institutions more responsibility and, of course, more powers. But this law, which would be very important, does not contain this law on the normative programme of its work for 2017. You also said that accounting models are being prepared for the payment of services to operators. We have heard these regulations last time that he is preparing the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia. The Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance has been in charge for more than two years now, and I hope that it will finally succeed in getting the director, but I hope or hope that we will not wait for these standards in this term. It is a pity that Zorman's colleague is not here in the hall, which stated in his position that he is taking the stand for the Party of the Modern Center for Quality Health, which is public health. We too advocate public health, respected colleagues, but today we have not spoken and today is not the subject of this point of public or private health, today the topic of this point is the operation of public health institutions. And if you still want to talk about what we talked about at these sessions, at least about public and private. Earlier in my opening remarks, I said that we had called the 19th emergency meetings on this subject, referring to the subject of health care. And look, that's when we proposed a meeting on emergency medical care, emergency centres. Do you remember? At the time, we warned the Ministry that funding was not appropriate and that the organisation of these emergency centres was not appropriate. That I'm not even talking about pediatric emergency centers here, which the ministry has forgotten at all. This theme affects or is related to today’s theme. We discussed these urgent meetings on the situation in the UKC, this topic is related to today, the issue of systemic corruption in health, for the first time in November 2015, we discussed the issue of health standards and standards, and this topic is linked to this meeting. We talked again about systemic corruption in February 2016, about human resources exchanges in public health institutions, we talked about long waiting periods, we talked again two weeks ago about systemic corruption. All these topics are related and are also related to today's topic of public health institutions. I must also say that I am deeply concerned about my colleague Zorman's statement, who said that the task of public institutions is not to create profits. All right, then let's say to all public institutions that their task is not to create profits, that they can work with loss, because it will be covered from the municipal budget or from the state budget. Funny, I'll say, but his statement is that the negative business trend of hospitals is upwards. I think that anyone who has been to a meeting of the parent board or looked at the material and listened a little bit, knows exactly that the results of the operation of health institutions from 2015 to the first half of 2016 are greatly deteriorating. Mr Zorman also says that when the business information is known, we will be able to talk and speculate in all this. We have not prepared this data on our own on the operation of public health institutions. This information was first pointed out by the media, then by the State Secretary first to the Public Finance Supervisory Commission, then for the last time on the Home Committee. Mr Mezek also drew attention to this information from the President of the Association of Health Institutions of Slovenia at the parental meeting of the Health Committee when we discussed this topic. Our concern about the negative conduct of public health institutions is not just a luft. If you had listened to Mr Mezk's statement, he said that the results of the operation of public health institutions in the first half of the year were poor. And if you want to do it again, I'll do it again. In 2015, 23 hospitals worked with surpluses, 10 million created them, only 3 hospitals worked with loss. In the first half of 2016, 14 hospitals worked with a loss of 19 million and 12 hospitals could operate positively and generate almost 3 million surpluses. To return to the statement made by the President of the Association of Health Institutions of Slovenia, who said that the results for the nine months they have are worse than the half of 2016 and are expected to be even worse at the end of the year. I think that Mr. Zorman should look at himself or listen again or read the magnetogram of this session. It also shows us that we do not know the work of institutions, such as public health institutions, according to their tasks, of course. And it's obvious to us that we don't know who's responsible in public health care. Definitely the answer is first of all the board of the institution, the director and the founder. I hope it doesn't come to anyone else's mind that he's going to say that we're finally guilty here or maybe even the opposition. Sometimes you don't know what else you're going to study in this National Assembly, I'm sorry. My colleague Muršič, I strongly agree with what you said, everything that needs to be done, especially the responsibility. I agree. And it's a very necessary law to run health care institutions. This should also be one of the tasks of the 2017 normative programme of the Ministry of Health. I may not fully agree with what has been said about public procurement, because this ministry has not yet shown positive effects in the field of public procurement or public procurement. I also liked the conclusion of colleague Muršičeva, the plan to fix things is a long, thorny path. That's right. But I'm afraid you're gonna run out of time on all this. Mr. Hanžek – even if he is not in the hall – said that in their parliamentary group, we are somehow tired of convening committee meetings or making recommendations to the National Assembly every three months. I think if we go to see, not every three months, we probably invest every month, but nothing helps. It's like they're talking to deaf people. The position of the Group The United Left was that it was all the fault of the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia, because it did not pay the public health service. I must say, I don't agree with him here at all. Then why can 12 hospitals function positively? I think that here is the ultimate responsibility in the management of the institution and in the sacred institutions, which I am also convinced that they do not perform their functions. It is also clear below that the applicants at this point do not state the reasons for the loss in public health institutions. I don't know, more than recommending that he read our recommendation again, I really can't. See, in this recommendation, we have indicated why losses are occurring – because there is still no public health network, because there are still no specific standards and standards for paying health services to operators, because it is still politically staffed because there is no doubt that corruption in health is still in existence, the public calls have not played their part. However, as I said before, one of the important measures is the adoption of a law whereby public authorities will be responsible for their actions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u49	Mr. Tomaž Gantar has the floor. Get ready for Mr. Janko Weber and Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u50	Thank you very much, President. Good day to you all again! Unfortunately, the good operation of public health institutions, especially hospitals, in all these recent years, not to say for decades, is more an exception than a rule. It would be a huge simplification if this was attributed mainly to the possible poor management of public health institutions. I am convinced that also successful managers with the system, as is the case in health care, from funding to leadership and to the legislation that governs this area, are in fact very difficult to do badly in this area. On the one hand, we have one major obstacle to governance, which is surviving old legislation, that is, the law on public institutions is really bad, to survive, does not correspond to the area of health as well as probably not to many other areas in the public sector, because it tries to bypass management from theatre to opera, to hospital and so on. This is only one segment that is a survivor and causes major problems and consequently ineffective management of public health institutions. But there are other, key questions. One of the ones we have mentioned many times lately is undoubtedly funding. Plan funding, as has been the case for a number of years and is still happening today, is said to be predetermined and limited programmes with predetermined prices charged, of course only on the basis of how much services should be needed in Slovenian health care and how much money is available. Such a price is generally inadequate, without a proper basis, even criminal to health service providers and, of course, does not hold the criterion. On the other hand, money can be redistributed more or less unjustly, depending on what is recognised to a particular public institution as its work circle. And the constant result of this is that virtually most public institutions have been providing a number of services that have not been paid for many years each year by going beyond the programme. And given the specific and sensitive area, they can't afford it at the end of the year and say it, but now we're gonna stop doing it because no one's paying us anymore. Therefore, losses, regular, no surprise, and therefore, uncollected liabilities to suppliers are also accumulated. The key is also in the Stability Pact, which does not allow non-indebtedness to the Institute of Health Insurance as a key contributor and, of course, prohibits loss in some way. And it makes sense that every time the money was too little, this loss was passed on to the contractors. All of this testifies to an inconsequential, viable, poor funding system. If I go any further, the system is also bad in the field of organisation. We know, this year, in these decades, medicine has been highly specialized and the organisation of health care has not followed. Then we have a pay system that sucks, which is unstimulating, which throws everything again in the same basket, from firefighter, doctor to theatre player, and what I know who else. So that's a big problem, too. Then the next problem that prevents a successful business must be mentioned again and again, the bad Public Procurement Law, despite its many changes, in fact makes it impossible for public institutions to work effectively and, of course, allows various manipulations, that I do not speak to legalise in some way also a theft that has been a lot of talk lately. And why do all these systems survive? Why has healthcare not been recognized as changing over the decades? Remember, or think about what kind of cars we drove 25 years ago, what they're doing today. And what was the information technology like 25 years ago when we could barely get to know mobile phones? Similarly, in the area of health care, which no one wanted to see, except that as patients we always demanded modern treatment and modern services. In addition, we are a population that is growing old and needs more and more. No one in this country has been willing to admit that health costs are rising, from 2% to 4% a year, not only in Slovenia, but in all countries that are trying to follow the development of medicine. In this way, health care from year to year, with all the warnings, poses a great problem for the proper work or treatment of all these patients who rightly expect health workers to do what everyone and many countries would like to do and understand. The country has also often invaded health care, such as VAT, where health care is not a specific area. In this way, since the introduction of VAT, we have lost 100 million per year from the health system. But she got the cash register, the state. And there have also been incursions at the expense of negotiations in the pay system, which have not followed an increase in health funds. Thus, there are many reasons, especially for all these reasons, we may be more surprised that anyone can ever succeed in the public health system. I hope that the time has come when we have stopped closing our eyes before we have to make a major reform, but now I will not only talk about reform, but also about smart reform, which will be able to provide a long-term sustainable health system, particularly financially sustainable. This means not only funding, but it means interventions in many areas, to be understood, also in the areas I spoke about earlier; in the areas of public administration, in the areas of regulation of the pay system and so on. Thus, the impact on a number of policies that must take account of the urgent changes without which our health will simply not work. Not yet, because we provide and promise people publicly and in some ways free of charge, widely accessible, the best health care that will follow development. It just doesn't work out. So we really need thorough steps, we've lost a lot of time, and I hope that the time has come when we started to realize what we've spent in the past years and that maybe there's very little time left to keep what was good. And it was good, in particular, taking into account the actual extraordinary efforts made by the lack of health workers; not only by doctors. This is the school that has cost us and will cost us dearly, and as with every school, I hope and wish we could learn something from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u51	Mr. Joseph Horvath has the word to prepare themselves for the mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar and Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I don't have much time, but a key finding has actually been made by my predecessor, Mr. Tomaž Gantar. He said something like this: the system is alive. Of course it is a survivor, this is what the OECD reminds us, which says, if I may illustratively speak, turn off this socialist health system in Slovenia already once. Of course, he's still socialist, because he was born before he was conquered. In these 25 years, we have done nothing in this area. But it is medicine, health is what is deserved, even in Slovenia, that we live longer. But treatment procedures are getting more expensive every day, but life is worthless. It has infinite value, so it is always worth investing in the health system. In the last 9 months, the revenues of all public institutions were higher by 37 million in 2015, but expenditure was higher by 65 million in last 9 months compared to the same time interval in 2015. Who's gonna cover this now? And it is true, we are talking about reform of the health system, but perhaps we are under-emphasizing funding. And here, some of you who speak public health, I think you're thinking more about public health. Why? Because you did not switch from socialism to today's system, which we decided 25 years ago, and do not allow the private sector to invest its money and then work to improve the health system. Take a look at the municipality of Tisin, an example of a public-private partnership, and the municipality has invested in the system of rebuilding a castle, which is now a microclinic – I say – 181,000 euros and the private doctor 660 thousand and the minister does not allow it to work. Don't let him work. This is a violation of constitutional law. Unheard of.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u53	The word has magic. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, prepare Mrs Marusha Škopac and Mag. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! Today we are talking about the financial results of public health institutions, especially in a way that also makes us feel disheartened by the deterioration of the performance of public institutions in the first half of 2016 in view of the first half of the previous year. In the first half of 2016, expenditure was higher than revenue and public institutions were expected to have around EUR 118 million of outstanding liabilities, which is around 6.6% of the annual revenue allocated to the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance to public institutions. At the same time, there is a expectation from the debate that the operation of all public institutions should be positive. Are such expectations even justified in view of their long - term inappropriate treatment? At the same time, few wonder what the goals of the health system are. The EU countries would agree that for sure the objective should not be to seek profits, as some previous speakers say. If we look at the financial reports of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia, we note that the share of public expenditure on health in gross social product has been steadily decreasing for many years despite medical inflation due to new technologies and a greater proportion of the older population. Medical inflation is usually growing faster than the usual growth of gross social product, which would, of course, require an increase in the share of public expenditure on health in gross social product. In 2015, however, public health expenditure amounted to 6,44 % of the gross social product, while 20 or 10 years ago those shares were higher, around 7 % of the gross social product. In 2015, compulsory health insurance in a gross social product amounted to only 5,58 % of the gross social product, while the funds were higher in 2015 and were 6,71 % of GDP. However, they were also higher 10 years ago, namely 6.55% of GDP, which is a higher proportion than today's share of all public funds in health. It is clear that governments have continued to seek public health since the establishment of a state of their own, and thus, of course, also public health institutions and their employees. At the same time, since independence, health homes and hospitals have been trying to decommission themselves by means of the transfer of health activities as a public service in the form of concessions or contracts as a purely private activity to individuals. This is a private business, espé or part of the company, which also introduces profit into the public health system. While the first postulate of socially oriented countries is undoubtedly the European Union countries, it is clear that profitability should not have a place in those health services that are important for human health. Public service as a gainful activity or mixing public and private where it is not necessary is costly for health care, while at the same time allowing anomalies such as corruption, different treatment of patients in the public health network according to their property status, abuse of public funds and patients in public non-profit health care for profits in own health companies within or outside the public health network. However, overall, public health institutions and public health care are failing, in view of the lower efficiency of the damage to the quality, accessibility and fairness of the health system and thus to human health. Let me stress that in the 1970s, the World Health Organization has given other countries a good example of organising our health homes and hospitals. By their example, Scandinavian countries have developed their health centres. Despite the well-known priorities of public non-profit health and public health care organisations in the form of public health institutions, the last 10 years have been marked by appetites after their privatisation. According to some estimates, public institutions represent more than €10 billion worth of assets that some cheap purchases would like to buy and, through privatisation, wash money that was transferred abroad at the time of the transition. Privatisation initiatives usually come from governmental types. Thus, in the time of the Pahor government, it was difficult to prevent the current Minister of Health from selling the three hospitals in Ljubljana, which he wanted to sell, despite the need for health care. It was a city children's hospital in the centre of Ljubljana, an old pediatric clinic on Vrazov Square and a psychiatric building on the Poljanski nasip. Fortunately, we were able to stop him. The fact that the Minister of Health even signed a contract with Mabra, d.o.o., for the sale of the building of the then Institute for Health Protection in the centre of Ljubljana, the then government or law enforcement authorities obviously did not interfere, although it was a society that only the post office in Liechtenstein was known to have. Under the pretext that the operation of public institutions would be better if the institutions were commercially autonomous, of course by public means, they wanted to turn public institutions into enterprises, which would through economic legislation, that is, recapitalisation and bankruptcy, allow them to be privatised. To this end, a proposal for a law on the implementation of activities of general interest was tabled which was withdrawn from the parliamentary procedure before its third hearing in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia because of its dispute. Even during the time of this government, there are occasional requests for the awakening of this bill by the current Minister of the Party ZARES Gregor Golobič. In view of the poor attitude of governments to public non-profit health and in view of persistent past attempts to destroy unprofitable public health care and to dismantle and privatise public health institutions, it is a miracle that public health institutions are still alive today, and the outcome of treatment is still comparable to the best countries, and in some cases even superior. However, the past negative attitude towards public institutions has its price. With difficult working conditions and excessive workload, it is paid by staff employed in public health establishments. We also pay for patients with poor health, an unfair funding system, poor quality of treatment and poor access to health services. Look at the most privatized medical activity, it's dental. It would be difficult to say that it is quality, accessible and that funding is fair. We are currently Slovenians among the European Union countries with the lowest number of years of healthy life, which also causes economic damage to the country. 25 years of privatisation and commercialization of health care has undoubtedly caused great harm to public non-profit health care, and thus to the people of Slovenia. Today we should therefore talk about the need to strengthen public health institutions financially and staff as carriers of non-profit public health activities, which, as established in practice, are, despite some of the current shortcomings, largely due to the introduction of commercialisation and privatisation into the health system, organisationally still the most efficient and quality healthcare providers. In fact, most employees in public health institutions should acknowledge that, in view of all the deficiencies in public health institutions, they are not higher than the current ones. In 2015, however, public institutions even reached an excess of revenue over expenditure of almost EUR 29 million. Today, we should also discuss the need to address these shortcomings, which weaken public health institutions and, above all, not to allow commercialisation in services that are important to people and not to allow interference between public and private health activities. Today, we should also discuss the organisation of effective professional supervision, as those carried out by the Chambers are not appropriate. We should also talk about measuring the quality of health services; this is not the case, and this is very important for human health. However, the need to establish effective common public procurement has been discussed for many years, but not much has been done in this area. It would be time for us to begin to address the consequences of the negative processes I have been talking about. Let me also mention that the proposed amendment to the Health Act unfortunately does not solve the health system problems mentioned above, but should. So I hope that the ministry will also listen to this and change the proposals made so far in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u55	Before I give the floor forward, I must explain that there has been a technical error in the management of the list of discussers, for which I apologize. Therefore, I give the floor first to Mr Jani Möderndorfer, then he has the word mag. Bojana Muršič and then Mrs Marusha Škopac.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u56	Thank you very much, President. The one who does it makes a mistake sometimes, but it's good to see it. And when he sees it, it's worth a lot. The problem is with those who don't notice it. Of course, this brings me to the point that is on the agenda today. In fact, they made one big mistake – they planned to have two points, and they planned to have a public health problem at one point, and then they made another point soon after that would be corruption. What was their plan really? Their plan was very simple — to come to two meetings and to talk about health at each meeting and to trouble yourself that everything is worthless. And then they fell apart. But they did break down in time dynamics. There was still Christmas, holidays, and we all stuck together in one session, and today we have two points on the agenda with virtually identical content, only that we will say that we are talking about public health institutions, and another we will say that we are talking about corruption in health. In fact, they could all be combined into one point. What does that mean, why did I even mention that? Because this is just another proof of systematic, I will say, opposition nagging, which, in fact, they must do and warn about all the mistakes from the point of view of their mission, if not otherwise. I will try to be constructive and take this point – although I do not know whether I should just repeat at the next point all the same, I will try not to, so now I will try not to mention corruption, so that I will have more words at the next point – and talk about problems that are actually in management and that are also being pointed out in this material, and in fact, some of them do not even mention. But they don't mention either because they don't know, because they don't want to, or because some people do. You all know that many times – and before me, colleague Gantar spoke about a series of systemic problems in the entire picture of the health system, because it is difficult for us to say today, you know, if we are going to solve the problem of the management and functioning of public health institutions, then we have solved the problem, but if everyone we are talking about is already aware that it is problematic and co-dependent of all other factors. It is from how we finance the health system, from how we have a problem with our network, from how we have a problem with our past stories, which draw us like a yoke of snake practically from 15, 20 years ago, I am talking about all the investments, from how and how the budget finances the health system, in short, these problems are huge. Not to mention all these little things, where we, in fact, transferred certain powers through legislation, sometimes had public institutions, now they had a health clinic, in short, things had become somewhat opaque. For this reason, and not least on the basis of the resolution adopted in the National Assembly, we have decided and the Government has started to make certain moves forward, which, of course, does not like the hand on the heart of many people. They won't like the works of the operators, they won't like the public institutions, and they won't like those who are actually funding our health services in some way today, and these are insurance companies. I'm talking about the central health department and all the other insurance companies. And if we go back, why do I mention this, because we simply don't have to overlook the problem of what the opposition is talking about, which is the management or management of public institutions. Today I have listened to Mrs Brinovšek, and I must say that I am concerned about this easy waste of this data, who is in debt and in what way. Now we will have to decide before we speak to the Slovenian public how many hospitals have lost. I've heard that 12 hospitals out of 26 have lost. Let's actually look at the numbers we have written down and we all have them in front of us. I am speaking from the business results of hospitals in 2015. Thus, in 2012 12 out of 26 hospitals were in negative business, in 2013 17 out of 26, in 2014 the result was improved, 7 out of 26, in 2015 only 3 out of 26. I don't know where they got data for 2016 because nobody in this country has it yet. That's why I don't know why number 12 came and why. I speak only on the basis of official documents, but if someone has a great imagination or, I will say, a sense of perception, what will happen, it is his personal problem, but this cannot be an official statement for some serious discussion we are having in the National Assembly. If we go one step further. It is important to be aware of why these losses actually occur in public institutions. In fact, loss has its roots, especially when we see when drastic losses have begun and when they have begun to decline. In 2012, I hope that we know what was going on in 2012, of course, there was a very strong reflection of the crisis from 2008 onwards and, of course, there was also a larger number of unemployed than today, which means, of course, fewer payments to health bills and, last but not least, other contributions. This was followed by the next step, which is to lower the price of services in public health institutions. Reducing the price of public services also means, of course, a lower income in the cash register, by having a serious problem for staff to remain the same, according to the number, everything is here and, of course, the loss is automatically on the palm. To this day, someone else has covered the loss if not the founder or the one in charge under our law to manage it in some way. I believe that with new legislation – and I hope that the law will be passed and that it will go through all of this procedure – we will get an active buyer through medical bills. On the basis of an active buyer, there will in fact not be a medical checkbook just a naked payer or one who will end up deciding on some crazy stories that no one else in this room today – I agree that we accept this position – does not understand; that we are practically at the end of the year negotiating the distribution of funds for something that has already been used back. Look, they haven't done this in communism. Even at the time of communism, when the self-government communities were concerned, this worked much better and they very clearly defined how these funds would be used. But it should be known that if public health institutions received less money, on the other hand, the need for services increased significantly. So how to settle this, but of course it's very clear. There is a need to increase revenue. For example, income can be increased by a new law when we transfer certain funds from voluntary insurance to compulsory insurance, but this will not solve the problem. It will also definitely solve the problem of crystallizing what the health department is actually paying for. Unable to pay for something that — in fact, is running out of funds to pay for the services of users, says those who are sick or need health care. We all know that. We know they pay specialties, research tasks See, this doesn't fit in the health register, let it manage or pay as much as for all other things budget. [[…]] And that's gonna get better. Then we have the next problem, and these are the saints of the institutions. You need to know, for example, that I hold in my hand the report of the clinical centre, the 2015 annual report; this is official information for me, because this is the only thing we can refer to. And if you look at it, on page 77 they talk about the results of the business and they already warn you in 2015 for 2016 that they actually get too little money. And then they make it very clear that this problem has been lingering for a long time and that, in fact, as a tertiary institution that we are all talking about today – that today we are only talking a lot about UKC Ljubljana and we are talking a little bit about some other UKC, say Maribor, I give just for comparison, Maribor has been positive for many years. There was a strange boy director for years, years and years, a miracle director. But what happened? Now that he's gone, everything just threw up on the day that there was a problem. Above all, the problem was that many times for the cost of doing business positively, he did not take the steps that are being taken today. And this is that they have a problem in anesthesia, a problem in urology, a problem, in short, a bunch of problems that come from the previous work. Finally, the problem of financing finally appeared to them, which makes no sense. What's the problem? The problem is that there are also people in the institution's world who, hand-to-heart, some who don't really know what they're doing there because they don't even know how to operate hospitals. Secondly, public institutions are not obliged, unlike companies, to make audited reports. The revised balance sheets would also very clearly show a deviation from how someone is financially recording and deducting all costs and revenues in public health institutions. In fact, if this is compulsory for the economic part, I do not know why it is not yet for public institutions. Because it is often a problem in public institutions, especially when it is run by certain accountants who do not actually have all the necessary evidence that they are also qualified for such accounting. You know, we have accountants and we have accountants. I will not now define myself because this is not even the subject of discussion, but of course this is a key issue. If I draw the line, I hope there will be an agreement, which is very serious, between the Minister of Public Administration, Mr Koprivnikar, and Minister Milojka Kolar, which is that you will finally agree on who will draft the law on change in public institutions in the health field. In fact, once again, the clinical center is as organized as the zoo. They have the same legal status, so that everyone in the country knows that this is a completely different subject matter. I do not speak or mention an animal door because I would humiliate it, far from it, but it has a completely different content, purpose, mission, but they work in the same way. And as long as the director of the largest institution is unable to decide, except for the kitchen, cleaners and I will say, some service matters within the clinical centre – in fact I find and I can say publicly that the director has no and cannot have serious control over what is happening in public institutions. And that's why it's not the director's fault. This is our responsibility because we need to change this system. And it's been going on for years. And, you know, I'm just gonna give you one case. The UKC has had many transformations, both of them. You know that clinics were separated from this system and came back again, but everything has always been done in the past with one goal: to improve the business of UKC. But we always come to a common point in the end: if there is no money, there is no music, and that's where the whole story ends. Let me finish. Of course, investment differences are also a serious problem. That's the problem. I believe that by seriously reorganising and seriously reforming, of course, when we put this on our own, I will say that I will pay to get serious and run these public health institutions, at this point in time, public institutions. In the end, the problem of large systems and blurry can then be a lot of corruption. Well, with that word, I'm getting into the next point where we meet and you'll probably have a lot to say. Me, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u57	Gradually, Mrs. Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u58	Thank you very much, President. I would like to ask you to warn SMC Members that they should stop saying that the applicant is lying about the information that he has in public institutions in the middle of the summer of 2016. In fact, the Association of Health Institutions of Slovenia has published these numbers, which we also have in our recommendation. Thus, as reported in the Association of Health Institutions of Slovenia, in the first half of the year, 29 public health institutions created a loss. Liquidity is also deteriorating. Together, they have EUR 118 million outstanding. Not to list all the numbers because you have them in the recommendation published by the Association of Health Institutes of Slovenia at the end of 2016. And please, the President, once again, on the reiteration that the proposer of the Slovenian Democratic Party is lying in this case, send them to the website to review matters. I'll go ahead and back these things up. The Health Institutes Association also announced this: in the first half of this year, 29 public health institutions were lost, 8 at the end of last year, of which 14 hospitals operated negatively in the first half of last year, only 3, 13 health homes last year, the end of last year 3. So we're talking about 2015. Once again, President, please inform Members when they are reinstated that the applicant does not lie and has published the information published by the Association of Health Institutions of Slovenia. And I ask that the largest coalition party, Members of the largest coalition party, stop deceiving the public by protecting such losses at six months. However, the president of this association also said that they were afraid of even greater losses and could read a magnetogram. And then I'll talk about it in my own debate. Therefore, procedurally, once again, I would ask the President to refer them to the official information of the Association of Health Institutions of Slovenia when such a violation of the lies by the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u59	Procedurally, Mr. Branko Zorman.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u60	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like you to warn my colleague Godec not to violate the rules of procedure. We know what it's meant to be. It's not meant to discuss what she just did. Of course, she abused this Institute of Procedural Procedure because she knew that she could get to the word immediately. And she discussed it with my fellow Member, given that she could not replicate it, because it was not yet up for discussion. So, you have a proponent, a proponent can come forward at any time, can replicate. But you, if you have a procedure, stick to the procedure. President, I suggest you don't allow this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u61	Gradually, Mrs. Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u62	Dear Mr. President! I turned to you with a procedural proposal and did not discuss it with a colleague from the SMC. However, I mentioned only the facts with which I reinforced my procedural proposal. Therefore, the applicant does not state the lie, but these are the figures published by the Association of Health Institutions of Slovenia at the end of 2016. And I would then like to know under which Rule of Procedure I violated the procedural proposal, because Mr Zorman has now discussed with me. So, Mr President, I, once again, do not want to violate the rules of procedure and I did not, at least not in my opinion, because I did not discuss it, but I did mention the facts with which I supported my instructions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u63	Now we have one situation where everyone gives their information, some source on which it is based, of course, for the other side is that lie. I've heard this thing in both directions. I think it's pointless to use the word lie when we have different data. However, the abuse of procedure was on both sides, at least as far as I understand the whole matter. And I would like to ask that we continue the debate, because otherwise we will stop here on procedural grounds and we will not be able to discuss any further. But really, the fact is, even if someone claims that the opposite side is lying, it's a political assessment. A political assessment of something. And I can't stop it on my own. But I'm not going to go check, because I'm not in God's position to be all-knowing so that I can actually judge the whole thing. Everyone has given their source, the viewers will create their own opinion, you have told your own, this page has told its own. I think we can proceed with the debate, and it is much more productive than continuing with procedural ones. Do you agree? Please. We continue the debate. The text is given by the proposer, who always gets the word first, in front of everyone else. So, representative of the proposer, Mrs. Nada Brinovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u64	Thank you, President. Before I go any further, I will only warn you that we have listed or that I will indicate the resources from which we have drawn, and my colleague Jani has not mentioned them. I can't get past going back to my mother's committee meeting, the Health Committee. When we discussed this point, we discussed it in the opposition and two members of the coalition, President Gantar discussed it and colleague Möderndorfer discussed it as much as we do today, all around, we know nothing and both. And what is interesting about this report from this meeting of the parental committee, where it says: Some members are proposing — Some? There was only one. — the applicants were given a populism performance in the issue under consideration in relation to the baselines presented and the lack of knowledge of the area itself. At that time, I asked my colleague Jani, after the meeting, to say what this ignorance of the area was, which I did not properly discuss, that the starting points had been misrepresented, and I think we had a really nice deal and no problem. Around the sources where we got the resources. I've told you before in my position. See, we publish the results of the operations of members of the Association of Health Institutions of Slovenia in the first half of 2016, this has been published on the website, for example. These data are also summarised in the report of the Ministry of Health, I hope you have also read this on the website. At the meeting of the Public Finance Supervisory Commission, Sandra Tušar, I will read: from 1 to 6 2016, 12 hospitals ended with an income surplus of 2.8 million and 14 hospitals with a deficit of 19.3 million. The UKC Ljubljana deficit in this deficit amounted to 64% of the overall deficit. Furthermore: UKC Ljubljana estimates that, despite the measures taken at the end of the year, they will record a loss of 19.8 million and 20 million respectively. This was also confirmed at a meeting of the parent committee where, my colleague Jani, was president of the Association of Health Institutions of Slovenia, I said earlier. He said: Business results – when we looked at these results as they were, I will repeat them again, the right thing in 2015 was 23 hospitals operating positively, 10 million operating surpluses, only 3 hospitals negative, 10 million almost losing; 2016, the first half, this is data from the Association of Health Institutions of Slovenia, this is data from the Ministry and the Secretary of State, in the first half of the year 14 hospitals created 19.3 million losses, 12 hospitals 2.8 million surpluses. And if I continue to go, UKC Ljubljana 6 million in 2015, 12.7 million in the first half of 2016, as the Secretary of State said, and are planning 20 million losses for 2016 at the end of the year. However, which is undisputed and clearly announced in the UKC business information at the end, where they say they estimate that at the end of the year, expenditure will exceed the realised revenues of EUR 20 million. And as I have discussed before, the ministry is not responding, the world of the institution is not responding, now it is best that we do not even point to this here in the National Assembly. Okay, then let's just let the caravan go the way it is. I have listened to a few previous debaters, and I would like to point out once again that today we are discussing, above all, the poor functioning of public health institutions, the reasons why this has occurred, and the measures that should be taken to prevent this from happening or to improve the situation. And that is why we have proposed conclusions, and I will read them, because now I see that you might read a little less or fly a little bit more or maybe some of you are not members of the parental committee. We have proposed five conclusions in this recommendation, namely that the Ministry examine the network of health service providers at secondary level; that the Ministry approach or determine the optimal use of medical devices or ensure that all the activities necessary are carried out; that the Ministry launches a register of procurement of medical equipment in Slovenian public health institutions; that appropriate measures be taken to reduce the deficit of public health institutions; and that the Ministry report on the performance of public health institutions to the Health Committee. I don't know where there's anything like this right now that we could just pick up from the luft or make up our minds or act like a populism. But if you think it's populist to point out the negative functioning of public health institutions, which comes from the state budget, which goes out of our pockets, then we don't have any help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u65	Replica, Mr. Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u66	Thank you very much, President. Colleague Brinovšek, look at this one thing. We need to pour ourselves some clean wine. When you say that I don't mention resources, you need to know, and thank God the magnetogram exists, I quote the source. I made it very clear that I am holding it in my hand, see, the 2015 annual report, the clinical center. And this is where I mentioned the UKC business numbers. Secondly, when we are talking about losses in public institutions, I mentioned the business outcome of hospitals in 2015, but it is true that I did not also say the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Public Records and Services. Otherwise, I suggest that the Slovenian public also be clear that they will be able to verify for themselves what we are talking about, on the website of the Ministry of Health, you have a website for Public Health Institutions and there you have one special link to the Analysis of Public Health Institutions after years. That's where you'll get the exact information, and that's the information I told you about today. And you and your predecessor, colleague Godec, are pleading for half a year's reports. I hope that you have sat in at least one health care institution and that you know that a six-year report cannot be a measure of the performance of the public health institution itself. And more importantly, a half-year report can only be an insight into which direction and how to proceed on the basis of a plan, a plan made by the public institution. But the fact is that we all know, and we also know the way, because I described it very clearly earlier, the way the public health institution is financed – that in the second half of the operation of the public institution, the financial situation is always improving towards half-year-olds. And that's why it's wrong to do this comparison, at least what it is, is incorrect. But it would be very fair – and that is why I warned you and said that this is some imaginative thought that you are using data for business for 2016, which is not officially available, does not exist. Or someone has them, I don't know. Secretary of State, do you have them? I don't have them, nobody has them. That's what I'm talking about. Therefore, I ask you not to speak with populist words, we all know that it is the money of those who pay health insurance, and not least the budget money of citizens and citizens who pay taxes. But we're talking about operating public institutions, and if we're already operating on data, let's give it to those who are credible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u67	Ms Nada Brinovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u68	I don't know, it is said that the data published today by the Association of Health Institutions of Slovenia and the Ministry are no longer relevant. Okay. That's what my friend Jani said. Thus, the Association of Health Institutions of Slovenia and the Ministry presented information on the operation of public health institutions from January to June 2016, it is said that the respected secretary of state, this work of yours, when you presented it, is a bluff. And the bluff is therefore also the words of your colleague, Mrs Sandra Tušar, on the Health Committee and on the Commission for Public Finance Supervision, when she gave the data herself. We come from this information, as far as we have obtained them through the media, on the website and on the basis of statements we have listened to at the meetings of the home committees. My friend Jani tells us that we're imagining something, and I don't know what other words he's using to make us incorrect. Look, if it's not our job here to tell someone what a loss will be at the end of the year, which is evident from half a year's results, then what's our mission? Let's just wait, yeah, there were 12 million 700 losses, let's wait, 20 million will be? What is even more worrying is the statement made by the President of the Association of Health Institutions of Slovenia. As he sat at the Health Committee meeting and when these data were presented from 1 to 6 on the losses of health care institutions, he said, quote, or I will read again: “The results of the three-quarters or nine-months were worse than expected or worse than those of the previous year. We did not expect them or expected better results.” And also: “We predict that the end of the year will be even worse.” So the result will be even worse at the end of the year than it was at the end of the summer. Now, if you don't believe the magnetogram, if you don't believe the words of the President of the Association of Health Institutions of Slovenia, the words of the Secretary of State, then it's probably better that we stop. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u69	Mrs. Marusha Škopac has the floor. Prepare Mrs Jelka Godec and Mr Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u70	Thank you for your word. First of all, what my colleague Jani said is that it is inappropriate to actually talk about year-on-year data, which is incomplete, I strongly agree with him. Each year, it turns out that half a year's data is completely different from the final data. I can support this with two facts. The first is that for the second half of 2016 the results will certainly be better because health services prices will rise, and this is one factor that will improve the final results. The second factor is that an annex to the general agreement was signed in January 2017, which will provide additional EUR 29 million to the public health institutions, and this will also affect the final result. The fact is that today we are talking about the annual results, not the final ones, and that this debate on this topic is completely premature and that this debate will be the 2016 Business Year has barely ended well, the public health institutions do not yet have their final results and will probably not have them by the end of March until they are obliged to deliver them. [[…]] And only after we have official results will this debate be appropriate and fully justified. And then we will actually be able to talk about how many public health institutions have created losses or positive results in 2016, individual or individual hospitals, or how many at the common level. Then I must be critical of all those who speak so loudly and vehemently that the Ministry of Health has done nothing in two years. What bothers me most is the fact that the former Prime Minister of the Government, who today is so sensitive to the subject of health care or is so concerned about health care, is that in her mandate, when she replaced or was the Minister of Health when she took over, she did not transgress the Ministry of Health. So much for this and her health care. The fact is that we are all talking about health reform before us. It was presented as a basic and main law that will likely be the most deeply involved in the organisation of health care, namely the Health Care and Health Insurance Act. This is a very complex, very demanding law that will undoubtedly have consequences for the organisation and, I am sure, also for the improvement of matters in our public health. However, the fact is that it takes time for someone to prepare such a complex and so demanding law to make calculations that are necessary to coordinate with certain ministries and cannot be done overnight. It was necessary to coordinate with the Ministry of First Instance, to present an agreement between the Minister of Health and the Minister of Finance that a whole bunch of things that are being paid from the health treasury today would be transferred from the contributions of the insured to the budget and that this would be paid from the budget, and this is undoubtedly progress that will bring additional funds to the health care sector. So once again, let us wait for a public debate on the Health and Health Insurance Act, which will undoubtedly contribute and help improve our health system.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u71	Once again, Mrs Nada Brinovšek, representative of the proposaler, takes precedence.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u72	Thank you. I mean, this is a little funny, let's wait together for the Health and Health Insurance Act to be passed, until then, what will happen to our institution, God forbid such statements. Dear colleague, you said it was not appropriate to talk about half a year's data because the results would not be known until the end of the year. I agree with this that there are definitely known data, but do you think the President of the Association of Health Institutions of Slovenia would speak if he were not at least 99% confident that the results would be even worse at the end of the year and even worse at the end of the year? I think that even on the Public Finance Supervisory Commission in October he announced an improvement in the functioning of public health institutions, but now that he has got the picture, the fact is that he became aware of the reality and said so at the January meeting. And again. We don't just think about it, of course not, I've read it before and I'll read it again and see, dear colleagues, the UKC report on January-June's business, what's the official document. And here too they predict, predict, assess, and at the time was already approved by the health insurance agency and the price of health services raised, I think it was twice this year. At the conclusion of the decision, the UKC notes that they estimate that at the end of the year expenditure will exceed the realised revenue by 20 million. They already had this data, and all the data on the increase in the prices of health services announced this loss. It's our duty. I'll tell you again.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u73	Ms Nina Pirnat, State Secretary, Ministry of Health, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Well, one more time. One is six-year reports, the other is estimates, the third is final data. It is precisely because the Ministry of Health constantly monitors the six-month reports, the nine-month reports, that it constantly monitors the assessments, that it also implements measures to improve the situation if it finds that a worse situation than in the past could occur. In 2016, on the basis of the six-year report mentioned today, we improved the financing of health care institutions or carried out an increase in services from 1. By the end of the year, by 3,6 %, totalling 36 million, if we count the funds from compulsory health insurance and voluntary health insurance. On the basis of these assessments, we also implemented a funding proposal for the 2017 general agreement and a change in funding 2017. True, accounting models are a bit of a problem, and precisely because they are a problem, and we know that, in 2017, an intense overhaul is taking place. Today, it has been repeatedly said that standards and norms do not exist. Standards and standards for the provision of health services covered by compulsory health insurance are, of course, existing and are the basis for payment of compulsory health insurance. It is true, however, that many, as I have already said, need to be reformed, as health technologies have changed and there is a need for adjustment. You need to know that any new health care that comes into the compulsory health insurance funding system and is previously recognised as a high priority in the healthcare world has, in the back, an accurate standard and standards as to how many people are expected to do so, what materials are expected to do so, and what kind of estimated value. Then, together with the Health Insurance Office, the calculation elements shall be carried out, which are then recognised in payment from the compulsory health insurance. We were talking about a network that wasn't there. Of course it is, but as I mentioned at the outset, the network is not something you set up and it is final. The network is adjusting. It adapts to demographic changes, adapts to new requirements, develops health technologies, needs and expectations. That's exactly what we're working on. As I said at the outset, we have a working and finalising strategy for the development of primary health care, which is the primary entry for everything else. In fact, a well-functioning primary health system with a family doctor as a doorman, with a well-developed paediatric system, gynaecological service, patronage and all others is one that then generates a greater or lesser need on a secondary level. This work is intensively carried out in accordance with the objectives of resolution 2016 to 2025, as confirmed by this National Assembly. As far as management and management are concerned. Although the Management and Management Act is not listed in the Government's normative programme, it is in intensive preparation at the Ministry of Health. The starting points have already been debated. And just because management and management are demanding a recast, they are one of the important priorities. We also discussed the negative operation of a possible clinical centre and that if the business report is negative, of course, the board of institutions will require a rehabilitation programme, rationalisation, organisation of operations, a review of the utilisation of 100 % of staff and a further reduction in the material costs incurred by the hospital in its operations. So much for once. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u75	Mrs Jelka Godec has the floor to prepare Mr Marijan Pojbič and Mr Branko Zorman.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u76	Thank you so much for saying that. I must tell the secretary that unfortunately I no longer believe in the ministry, for one reason. Madam Minister spoke about the common procurements since 2015 and talked about how much was saved. In response to my question, it is written by the Government that during the first year of general public procurement, the Government saved or saved 20% in health care. But you, on the Health Committee, clearly, explicitly – so far we have brought you with questions that you knew were rhetorical questions – answered that there was absolutely nothing saved, but that in 2011. The same are the answers to my questions. And how can you believe a ministry that says, on the one hand, that common public orders are on medications, diapers, needles, catheters, etc. Successful if no procurement has been completed and the Minister says she saved 20% in the first year. Well, that's the first reason I can't believe what you're saying from the Ministry. Second. For two and a half years you have been studying, working the network, statistics, analyses, I don't know what you're doing, following public institutions, and after a half-year report 2016 by the Association of Health Institutions of Slovenia show a higher loss than in the same period of 2015, more indebted than in 2015. How can a person trust you, how should citizens believe you, but if the secretary on the Health Committee says in a vehement manner: 6 million at the end of the summer of UKC Ljubljana, we expect 19 million. And nothing. Mr Mezek, I will now quote him to you, denying you all your words, Madam Secretary, and all the words of the Minister and all the words spoken by the coalition, if you do not have the right data. Mr Mezek said: “The public health institutes at mid-summer, the results of the three-quarter-year operation, said at nine months, were worse than expected or worse than the comparable ones in the previous year. We weren't expecting them. We were thinking of better results. We have also sent messages in this regard, warned, but this was the end of the year and these messages have not been heard." Madam Secretary, they haven't been heard from. Because there were other topical issues at the time, because the ministry had to deal with itself again and with the so-called reform from which we have not been reformed since today. And then she says, yes, of course, the additional 100 million were paid, but this 100 million was not about the services, Madam Secretary, this 100 million was about the increase in the VAT rate, then the release of the advances introduced by your government, the payment of unpaid overtime, etc. [[…]] So, stop saying that this was about services, about patients. It didn't work. It was about paying for something that you are — that is, to relax your advancements and to pay off excesses that you were unable to pay before. So, that's what Mr. Mezek is saying, a magnetogram of the 10th session. 1. 2017, Health Committee. You were there, and you know it. So, how should people, citizens, believe you? Talk, we'll do it. We've been listening to this for two and a half years, but the Prime Minister of the Government, Dr Cerar, said our advantage is the health system, the health reform, we're going to improve the management of public institutions, I don't know what. Then we have a man in management positions who you ask who runs UKC Ljubljana, and he looks at you like he doesn't know if he's there or who he is. A man who can't say, I'm the director. My colleague Jani said it's not all up to the director. I agree, it doesn't all depend. Then you have a buyer who says, "Yes, we went through the invitation to tender, but what." And then you ask him, "Yeah, why did you do that? Have you had the budget foreseen?" “No.” “Then why is UKC in loss?” “Yes, Mrs. Godec, which is why the UKC is in loss because the buyers went through.” And the director just signed it. And then there's an excuse for one and the other. There are several factors, I agree. He's not all the director. But if you have a director who can't tell him or not, I'm the director, I'm the one who's responsible, too, if I sign if I go over the budget who's going to be responsible for these losses? [[…]] The ministry will cover, the citizens will cover, and no one will answer, because someone in the National Assembly says that the task of public institutions is not to create profits. Of course it's not, public institutions don't make profits, they're non-profits. Because what they're creating is going back anyway. What if he creates a loss and we give him a badge? But then we're going to give him the badge because one of the MPs said -- I don't know who he was, the debater or the advocate, I didn't write it down, I apologize, but I think it was from a colleague in Desus -- that we should give credit to all the workers, to all those who are employed in public health because they are doing so well? Yeah, but now that they're making a loss, they're doing good? And then we plead not to be responsible for health insurance, and they're guilty, and he's guilty. We don't know how many years, but your government said, "Our priority is health, we'll do what needs to be done in health." Today we are listening to the same "we will do" as we heard in early 2015. It is pathetic to say “we are for public health”. If you're for public health, the devil, then let the public institutions do something to ensure there's no loss. And not just in public institutions, of course, in the whole system. As colleague Jani says, the whole system is already – he did not know the word then – that there are so many factors that influence. Yeah, well, let's have a system-wide solution, shall we? Then let's get on with it. But look, Minister, it's like she's living on another planet, like she's not from this universe. Now, what you're saying is, let's just wait. Yes, colleague Skopac, what are we waiting for? What are we waiting for? People send me these papers, five months, six months waiting for operations the secretary says is only a month's wait. What else do they have to wait for? That the UKC will lose even more? That people are still in the halls and I don't know what? And then the Ministry says it's done everything that the Court of Auditors wrote down in this audit. Not that he didn't. They did everything. Why, then, does the measure write to the Court of Auditors: the assessment of the corrective action is unsatisfactory with regard to the point of monitoring the exploitation of CT and MR devices, but has not yet set standards for the optimal use of expensive medical equipment, namely the Ministry? And then you answer how you're going to solve these things, so you're optimizing the use of expensive medical equipment, you're going to adopt a resolution and you're going to make a network. Nothing concrete, this and this. And then the Court of Auditors finally finds that the Ministry is working towards not being a good master. I don't know what's after yours that you've done everything if it's the Court of Auditors' decision that you acted like a bad master. Let me answer that. You haven't done everything the Court of Auditors says. You're not. But we have these institutions, the Court of Auditors, the KPK, and so on, toothless, because what the KPK says – then I will be there in corruption, so that I will not mix these two points anymore. Now that's exactly what I remember, my friend Jani is really good, because he's right to say how we planned things. These meetings or that the two points are similar – I agree – now at the same meeting, it is not our fault. We made recommendations for expensive medical equipment and corruption, the meeting was convened by the chairman of the committee, this is Mr Gantar, but what is at the meeting of the National Assembly has been convened by the President of the National Assembly. And today, unfortunately or unfortunately, we are talking about two things that could, of course, be connected and are definitely connected. So I have to say, it's hard to work effectively, to look at myself, I'm not in the ministry, but I almost have to say, well, you probably work – at least I hope you're working to make some moves, take some measures – but look, there's nothing to see. [[…]] It doesn't look like anything. You say you're monitoring public institutions and their negative status. Now the Celje hospital has announced that it will operate negatively. Yeah, let me tell you how you followed UKC Ljubljana to do that in six months? Once a higher loss. How did you monitor that all expensive medical equipment was optimally used? The Maribor case, two devices in oncology alone, because there are no doctors, because there are no people to examine people, there are no experts. When did you wake up? That's when it came to the media. Then again, of course, the minister didn't say anything because the minister is working, and I don't know what she's doing. That everything's okay at the start, that we have a public network now I don't know, then this representative who was on TV a while ago, a representative of family doctors who says we don't have a network and not everything's okay at the start, now he's lying. [[…]] You know, I don't know why then these doctors – of course, they're guilty again, according to you, according to the minister, they're guilty because they write more directions in advance. The Ministry keeps waking up when something comes into the media. That's not right. It's not okay. It is not right for the media to get things on fire and then people get the wrong information and then we discuss these issues in the National Assembly. It's not right for the media to produce things too much. It's not right. That's because the Ministry doesn't do anything at all. And you're telling me you have a network, you don't have a public network. You also spoke about this and the Minister on committees and secretaries on committees and Mr Mezek and health representatives. You don't have one. You don't have one. And don't talk, we have a basis, but it's a living thing and it changes. When you have a basis, then you say there's something alive that changes things. So, yes, public institutions have no responsibility to make profits, and their task is not to create such losses as they have. and that depends on a lot of things, as has been said, and in the first place on all these systemic solutions, which are not after two and a half years – because the ministry has promised them, because 24 years has not been done, as the Minister has said, and now we will take the magic wand and she will do – nothing has been done. What you've presented now, what they say is now the marriage No, these are some of the issues that people are now so-so little we get to give the marriage out. [[…]] [[…]] Get the concrete law out. The date was 12. The 12th was 16. 1. It's nothing, it's just harder! [[…]] I don't know how long. I'm very sorry, Madam Secretary, that you're here, the Minister should be. But the minister is not here on any such matter, but there is a tape cut for family doctors or at an opening in Ankaran in a health care home, and the four tapes have to be cut. There's no time for that. The minister must be reforming at this point, but no, the four tapes are cut in Ankara. And then they happen, and how do you guys keep track of all this stuff? [[…]] Of course, much will be said then at the next point, but not saying that you did everything the Court of Auditors said because you did not, because they said you didn't have expensive medical equipment under control, you don't know if it was optimally used, which is why there are long waiting periods. You don't have a public network, that's what doctors and directors and the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia are telling you, I don't know who's saying that the network isn't. But I don't know, then let's get back together, because once you talk like that, another time. In the following paragraph, however, there is probably more to corruption or definitely corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u77	Mr Marijan Pojbič has the floor to prepare Mr Branko Zorman.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. But here's the question where a person can even start to say what I think is wrong with the health system. Practically from any point of view, from any angle we look at this area, everything is wrong. And that's what the patients are warning us about, that's what the doctors are warning us about, that's what the union's warning us about, that's what nurses are warning us about, and that's what they might mention. And we're wasting time here – I'm not talking about the opposition that we're proposing these things, but the coalition – instead of stepping together, we're solving problems. Problems that are identical, that can't be hidden, that can't be hidden. Despite all the deceptions of the coalition and the government, the facts are clear. The facts are clear. And we cannot avoid this and the fact is that in the opposition we are doing something to warn the government and the coalition and all those structures that are responsible for the functioning of this system, to remind them that something needs to be done. Even in the very philosophy of thinking, looking and acting both government and coalition. But he obviously doesn't touch them. It is better, of course, to speak out and attack the opposition than to seek and bring salvation to the table. Today, colleague Jani Möderndorfer said: "This is evidence or another evidence of opposition negativity." That's exactly what the sentence said, literally. Look, my fellow Members and colleagues, I am asking if this sentence is appropriate for what we are reminding the Slovenian Democratic Party today with these recommendations. Look, I'm going to repeat those key things again, why we made these recommendations, namely, the business and liquidity of public health institutions in the first half of the year is getting worse again. And look, nothing and no excuse comes into play, but at least that someone says we're discussing a report that's not definitive. Please! All the indicators are clear. Things are going the wrong way. And even at the end of the year, which is already the end of the year, despite the fact that we do not yet have an official report, it is clear that things did not work out for those who say that everything in the healthcare system works as it should. And it is right that we in the Slovenian Democratic Party point out this issue in this way. That's right. And we'll do it in the future. This government and coalition, if we have to, we'll wake up. Unless, of course, there will be an election before then. We are in the third third of this term, and we have this million promises already made, what this minister, this government team, also the coalition team, will make improvements in this area. But nothing. We always get some things, some information, when we have to come to the table with some concrete solutions, and none of this because within the coalition they can't reconcile. And then they say it to each other, to each other. I am not interested in this as a citizen, so the government coalition and the government have set up a coalition to bring solutions, not to argue with each other until the end of their term of office. And for four years, they'll be gone and nothing from scratch. The waiting days are increasing, the doctors are increasingly dissatisfied, the nurses are constantly more dissatisfied, the doctors' union is increasingly dissatisfied, the health clinic is increasingly dissatisfied and so on and so on, would not mention. I simply do not understand those who can speak here from the coalition, that we are now guilty of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which reminds us of this bad situation. Instead of reacting immediately, we'd say, but now let's step in together and find solutions, tell us where you see them, where we see them. Although this is not the mission of the opposition, but no problem, we are always constructive about these things, always willing to help when it comes to the common good when it comes to the welfare of our citizens and citizens. Always, at any time, can at midnight, can tomorrow morning, can on Sunday, can on Saturday, can at any time. Just a coalition, tell us if you want to cooperate with those of us who are responsible for the future of this Slovenia. And if you're gonna do it, there's no problem. No problem. Again and again in the National Assembly, I warn everyone and everyone sitting here. But you're looking for excuses in all that, so coalition and government, why there's nothing to be done. Just like most bureaucrats do in our society. You come to this office, the second office, the third office, except for some individuals who are really good, who I can praise, because I know them, you get an answer, you know, and I can't do that, and that's not what this is about. Of course not, because if any document is signed, it is also responsible. When a month comes around, when you have to take a salary, it's a nice salary, that's no problem. But then no one says, "Look, I wouldn't have a salary, or I'd only have half a salary, because I've only earned half a salary or not." Nobody ever says that. And that's not normal. So we live in some kind of abnormal society where responsibility is a third-rate issue. A third-rate question that has nothing to do with the substance that has nothing to do with what should be crucial; if someone is well paid, in a good position, he must also be responsible for his actions and must take primary responsibility for his actions. But that's not happening. If this government and this coalition are functioning so that we are guilty in the opposition, if we point out the problems, then it is logical that it can be no different. There's nowhere else to be. But I also say that there are individuals in the coalition who have to say that they are excellent, that they are honest, responsible, but they want to vomit when they sit within such species, where there are quite a few who would do anything to be like that, so that nothing can change, so that they can enjoy and continue to support the privileged, those who live in this society as small gods. And that's not normal. Dear friends, dear ladies, this is not normal. I don't want to work with people like that, even though they've been elected. And now I'm going to go back a little bit further, why we have tabled to speak very clearly again and to give some information very clearly. Aja, this before – in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we strongly reject the accusations that we are negligent in opposition. I strongly reject such thinking and so forth. It's beneath every level. Who hopes to make such a statement here in this National Assembly, because, after all, look at public research, you will see whether they have the support of the nerds or have the support of those privileged or I will tell the people who have been elected from the offices. No, those who act in the interests of the people and who fight for their rights have the advantage. Unless they do again what they have done to us before the elections, I hope that this will not happen, because this was one of the most disgraceful acts of this party and of those people who are sitting here today. Not everyone's guilty, but some. To go back. Ljubljana, August 31st, the results of the operation of public health institutions in the first half of this year are worse than the same period last year, according to data from the Association of Health Institutions of Slovenia. In the first half of the year, the loss created 29 public health institutions, their liquidity also deteriorated, totalling EUR 118 million of outstanding liabilities. In the first 6 months of this year, the total revenue of public health institutions was 40.4 million euros or 4.7% higher compared to the same period last year, of which 31.7 million euros were higher in hospitals or 5.1% higher, 3.8 million euros in health homes or 2% higher in other institutions, and 4.9 million euros or 10.7% higher in other institutions than in the first half of last year. In this period, however, the expenditure of the institutions was higher by EUR 55.3 million in all public health establishments, or 6.4% in comparison with the first half of last year. Nominal expenditure was the largest increase in hospitals, by €43.1 million or 6.8%, and as a percentage in other institutions, by €4.7 million or 9.9%. In healthcare homes, expenditure was higher by €7.5 million and 4.1% compared to last year's first six months. These public health establishments, which operated positively, together created EUR 7 million plus, which is 31.9% lower than the same period last year, show the data collected at the Association of Health Institutions of Slovenia. In hospitals, the excess of revenue over expenditure is €2.8 million and is lower by 5.3% compared to the excess of the same period last year, in healthcare homes €3.6 million, by 50.2%, while other establishments have created a total of €0.6 million surplus. In the first half of this year, 29 public health institutions were lost and 8 at the end of last year. Of these, 14 hospitals operated negatively in the first half of last year, 3, 13 health homes last year, 3 last year, 3 other institutions again in the first half of the year with a loss of only 2 institutions, which is the same as at the end of 2015. Those who did business negatively collectively generated EUR 20.5 million of loss, which is 263.2% higher than the same period of the previous year. Of this, the loss in hospitals amounted to 19.3 million euros and is higher by 310.3% compared to the same period last year, 0.4 million euros in health homes, 26.6% higher and 0.8 million euros in other institutions, 34.8% higher. The largest negative among hospitals was created by the University Clinical Centre Ljubljana at 12.37 million, the Shempeter Hospital at 1.8 million euros and the UKC Maribor at 1.3 million euros. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this document is credible and no one, neither the Secretary of State nor anyone sitting among Members, can challenge this document because it is an official document. And whoever didn't see it would be good to read it. And then he says these things and other things, and he's trying to make the Slovenian Democratic Party into liars, which is unacceptable and unacceptable and confused with every living logic. Instead of being alarming enough for the coalition and the government to react immediately and also ask the opposition to help find the right solutions, to attack the opposition that warns and the Slovenian Democratic Party. Is that normal? I'm asking if that's normal. Next information. The biggest loss among hospitals was generated by the University Clinical Centre Ljubljana at EUR 12.37 million, plus EUR 74 million in debt from previous years. It also owes some 100 million euros to suppliers. Aren't these the data that's important to us sitting here? Do you know what kind of money this is? And, Your Honor, Mr Mezek, President, once again – I will say and confirm what I am talking about – when he got the floor on the committee, he said: “Public health institutions at six months of age, the results of a three-quarter-year operation, said at nine months of age, were worse than expected or worse than comparable in the past year. We did not expect them or expected better results.” Of course, you could still read and read all these documents that we have, and you could find that simply what the Government has set up, these leaderships along with the changes that have happened in these very ones, because I will remember later. [[…]] So, because they replaced people who control the administrations and so on in hospitals and institutions – holy institutions, I apologize, I couldn’t remember. And look, here I have a chart of what this government has done and who it's replaced. In the psychiatric hospital Idrija was replaced by 2 persons, in the General Hospital of Trbovlje, I speak for sacred institutions, 3 persons were replaced, in the General Hospital of Izola 2, in the General Hospital of Jesenice 3 persons, in the General Hospital of Slovenj Gradec 6 persons, in the General Hospital of Celje 3 persons, in the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Transfusion Medicine 4 persons, in Slovenia Transplant 1 person, in the General Hospital of Novo mesto 3 persons, in the General Hospital of Sežana 2 persons, in the General Hospital of Murska Sobota 5 persons, in the General Hospital of Jožeta Potrča Ptuj 3 persons, in the General Hospital of Nova Gorica 4 persons. Look, I'm not gonna mention it because it's too easy. And all that they did and the administrations they replaced, even in Maribor and at the clinical centre in Ljubljana, did not bring results. We have results today as we look, in these papers I've been reading. These are the results of these people set up by this government and this coalition. And this government and this coalition are talking about ethics and morality. That's it. post-revision report Correctional measures at the University Clinical Centre Ljubljana, Decision on Infringement of Good Business Obligations. This was the conclusion of this report: »The University Clinical Centre of Ljubljana has demonstrated partially satisfactory measures in the response report to address the irregularity or recklessness described in point 2.2. Thus, in accordance with the provisions of Article 29, paragraph 5, of the Law on the Court of Auditors and Article 37, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, the Court of Auditors violated the obligation of good conduct.” Now I'm asking the Ministry what the measures were. What measures have been taken on the basis of this document? And I demand that today I be answered publicly, specifically with names and surnames, who was responsible for this situation and who was responsible for this situation, for this written decision. Then, dear colleagues, when we talk about the fact that the Ljubljana Clinical Center has a minus on the account. He can have it. I will now read what the Council24 wrote: "Cattering in UKC Ljubljana, which is one of the public institutions and has illegal employment, is extremely interesting. In 2014, when the current head of the clinical department for vascular neurology and neurological intensive therapy was given permission to hire two doctors, you will not believe what was done by the management of the clinical centre, “the management of the clinical centre hired Uroša Smiljić, a storekeeper.” Don't you feel bad listening to this? Aren't you sick? What do you think the Slovenian people think about this, what do patients in waiting lines think? And to continue: “From this we can conclude that warehousekeepers needed much more urgently than two doctors in one of the most burdened departments in UKC Ljubljana.” And you can imagine? Such a lack of doctors as in our system, and the administration allows itself to do what it did. And the government and coalition have replaced members of this supervisory authority, which oversees the functioning of the administration at the clinical centre in Ljubljana. And what did this organ do? What did this body do when they realized it was so? What did this organ do? And what did this government and coalition do when this information came to the fore? This should be alarming to the upper limit. To the upper limit. And nothing has happened until this moment. I will continue: “Urosz Smiljić has become a financial accountant in the warehouse and is expected to become acquainted with many people soon after the start of his service (for one day at a time and then last December 2014 for an indefinite period of time)” but, yes, financially, first of all, one day, I apologize, “at least for one day for a certain period of time, and then in the last December 2014 for an indefinite period of time, he became acquainted with many doctors.” [[Incomprehensible]] What the storekeeper has to do with the doctors is a very interesting question. And how could he afford a brand new Mercedes without an education? Why was UKC Ljubljana so urgently needed? For those who do not know how to hire people for an indefinite period of time, his story is instructive. If you don't inform the employee that his contract has expired for a while, you have to automatically hire him for an indefinite period of time. Look at the problem, and this is where the government should immediately come in for a change of legislation. That's unacceptable. It means that lawyers in UKC Ljubljana are very resourceful. Nine months, 21 pay grade. As explained by the Public Contact Service, Alenko Kveder was first really employed in UKC Ljubljana on January 25th this year and was placed in the 9th grade, and she was already making progress on April 25th, although she was still at the job of the server, in the 11th grade. It had to prove itself to be exceptional, since it had already progressed on 1 August this year to a temporary placement of the professional co-worker into the 30th pay grade. So, only in seven months from the 9th to the 30th pay grade. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know if anyone else has anything to add here when they're listening. And how can you defend the Ministry and such a team? How can you defend without saying, look, now that's over? And the coalition itself – and all coalition parties, all of you sitting here – immediately called on the Government's responsibility, who placed representatives in this supervisory body, which must immediately call them off, in a moment, uncompromising because they did not do their job. [[…]] They didn't do their job. And they must also be responsible for this unacceptable act. This is how we lose money, so we get money from health insurance agencies, from clinical centers, not to talk about the part that comes next. And then we can drive money into this system with trucks, and there will never be an end, there will never be any change, the money will be spent, the ovaries who are stuck up from all possible options will continue to put more money in their pockets. If this is our goal, if this is the interest of this coalition, if this is the interest of the government, then I must say, then I am truly sad. I am making the most of my efforts in the National Assembly to warn, as in the Slovenian Democratic Party, and to wake up the coalition and wake up that honest spirit in those individual Members and Members who are in the coalition to call it, see, those who belong to that group that advocates this mess can no longer sit in the same party with me. And if we did that, there would be cleansing, and sooner or later, the coalition would start or even give up the story and go to new elections, find and give the opportunity to those who think the way I think, and the way I look at things. And I think that every politician should see it that way because it is what citizens and citizens expect of us, not what I have read to you right now. And to mention this Mr Uroš Smiljić – you must be sick – yesterday or when I heard that he was hired back and that the job was waiting for him. He was somewhere in prison or in custody, I don't know exactly, but I saw that information yesterday, whether yesterday or today, I don't know exactly now. Does that seem normal to you? Thus, we have untouchable people in this Slovenian world. If it's a real union, if the first octopus is connected, no problem, you can do whatever you want, nothing can happen to you. This, my dear colleagues, is an abnormal state. It's a real abnormal state. And I must say that I am truly constantly more disappointed, but I am also sure – and I will do so – that I will continue with my group of Members until that moment to realize that the real Slovenian people have made huge mistakes several times in return. Either it was the wrong choice of people, or it was the wrong people, or it wasn't the elections. I think that by this realization in the Slovenian electoral body will surely be sooner than later and you will see what seems fair to me that I was right. All of you will find out that I was right, and then it will be clear who is the one who messed up, and who is the one who was right. I am sure that we are right in the Slovenian Democratic Party, and we will not deviate from this concept to warn you and all those who are somehow responsible for changing things. But I wish as an opposition Member that I could help in that part of changing things, not for us sitting here, but for those of us who went to the elections or stayed at home. They need help and the health system is one of the key systems or subsystems that are key to the normal functioning of a society. A nation without health is just like something without a motor. And I don't think this company can and can't afford it. Some things need to be cut off in this context. We'll do it sooner. It'll be easier. And people won't get angry with politics, they won't get 2,3 or 2,1 grades, or I don't know what, but they'll get the grade they have to earn with their honest, responsible and constructive actions. We have this option, we still have this opportunity, all of us sitting here, no matter what customer there is, no matter what political option someone is in, we still have some time to prove that people are not wrong. However, if we are here because, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are reminded of our mistakes, of the complete coalition and of the government being severely attacked, and until the government and the coalition are looking for a thousand and one reason and an excuse to justify their incompetence, their failure or the people who have put them in a certain position that they are not working in accordance with established standards, legislation and so on, I do not think that anything can change in this society for so long. I hope and believe, but not only that, I am also sure that there is so much in us that we are all sitting here, regardless of whether we have a different opinion on certain matters, that we can say that what I told you about the Ljubljana Clinical Center, and we are beating new money into a health system – cannot happen. And once again, it totally doesn't matter to me which party is someone who broke the rules or did the wrong thing or did the wrong thing or did the wrong thing and the wrong thing. I don't care. All must be treated equally. I just hope that these things will not turn into political accounts again, but everyone who has made a mistake, regardless of which party he is from, must be held accountable for their actions. And when this system is established, when the justice system begins to function normally, not politically, not through the audiences and so on, then we can say that we are beginning to get closer to what the Slovenians wanted when we gained our independence. And this is not Switzerland 1, 2, but that Switzerland plus could be with everything that was given to us, what nature gave us. I think that we Slovenians are very capable people, we have a lot of decent staff, which unfortunately now, because of such and different measures and the bad governance of this government, are leaving Slovenia and going abroad, and on the other hand, we are importing economic migrants. This is the policy of this government, and I cannot help but conclude with these words, because this is unacceptable. This is extremely unacceptable to our people, to my people and to those who go to Austria and to Switzerland and to England and so on. The intelligence we were teaching here, we paid here, go out and get a job. That's not allowed. All of us sitting here need to think about this situation. If we're capable of this, I say, there's still time to change something and move on, but together. Not one against the other, not me against Jani, not Jani against me. There's no problem in having a different opinion on certain things, but when it comes to important things, I think we need to get together. And I can also commend if anyone has done something good, this has done to Jani yesterday – no matter how much the colleague laughs, I can do it too, she doesn't know it, but she doesn't need to know – because I know how to separate between what's good and what I think is not the best. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I think these recommendations are so high-quality, so clear, so argumentative that none of us sitting here can overlook them, and I'm counting on them to have a certain effect that such things as I am today, and that's a pure trifle that I've read here about the clinical centre of Ljubljana, can ever happen again. And that. At the key position of the largest clinical centre in Ljubljana we have a man – when I looked at the investigative commission I was ashamed, I was ashamed of what capacity this man is and how you could put such a man in this position. How? So, is he being put there just because he nods and signs what the uncles in the background order him? I don't know any other argument or reason for such a man to work in such a position. And the person who watched – this is my opinion, I am talking about my personal opinion – this hearing on the investigative committee, I am sure that he was able to generate his own opinion. I am as I have told myself in front of the entire Slovenian public – that I am ashamed. And then someone tells me that this government is ethical and moral and that it is staffed by abilities, not by political affiliation, or by the collective one, that I will not say what kind of belonging it is. That's why I'm so disappointed over and over again, really. I believe once again that there will be a majority in the National Assembly who will set up a government that will strike on the table and say, stop, they will not put people behind us in key positions. When I heard these saints of the institutions standing up — because I couldn’t remember it before, I apologize — I got information about the key: Desus, SD, SMC. That was the key. But it wasn't a key to expertise. A combination of SD, Desus and SMC. And I talked to some people, they said, I'm from this quota, I'm from this quota, and he's from that quota. That's not normal. It is normal that if a government coalition has taken over, a coalition and government, the responsibility for the functioning of a system, that is, a state to put people there who are capable and who think that they will achieve their goals and what they have set themselves as a story. But this government has a problem. Neither did the Ministry of Health set some smart goals. In addition to the fact that it was written in a coalition contract, I noticed this: “The management of public health institutions. To reorganise the management, business and supervision of public health institutions and to increase the responsibility of directors and councils of institutions.” She wrote that, but I'm talking about what I showed you here today. Does that hold? Is that true, my dear colleagues and colleagues?? No, that's not true. And then, look, she wrote under item 7: "Corruption. Apply zero tolerance to health corruption. Of all those who are responsible for the rise of corruption by their (non-)action, we will require personal responsibility." And today I have asked the Secretary of State and this coalition when they will demand personal responsibility, when these pigs, which are written here, will require personal responsibility. When? Well, I expect that now at last, because otherwise the mandate will be over. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I think I have been a little longer, but I am sure that all I have said is well-intentioned and for the benefit of this country and citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u79	Ms Nada Brinovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u80	Thank you. I must respond to the Secretary of State's words regarding standards and standards for the payment of service providers. Of course we do, but these standards and norms are old, they're no longer usable. They need to be processed, new regulations need to be laid down so that they do not happen, as is the case now, when, for example, three, four patients who are doing exactly the same amount of work receive up to 100% of the different payments. I do not mean UKC Ljubljana or UKC Maribor here, where it is known that because of the specialists and so on they receive more. The fact is, these norms are necessary. This has been for two years or so, our mandate has also been warned by the former Director of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia, Mr Fakin. It also points out that I have noticed from the media a potential candidate for the new director of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance, Mr Suselj. I think this is clearly necessary, of course, by the sudden procedure. It is true that this is not the Ministry's task, but this is the responsibility of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance. I don't know, Madam Pirnat, whether we come together or not. Is this health net, public health network, or isn't it? At the outset, I have somehow understood you that it is not and that it will be prepared in accordance with the resolution on national health by 2021. That she'd be ready. You were a little earlier when you responded with your answers, you said that this network was to be complemented and blah blah blah. But look, your colleague Sandra Tušar is in one of the meetings last year, and I have a magnetogram, and she said, "As far as the criteria for the network are concerned... We within the working groups of the Ministry, in cooperation with external experts, are preparing this network, but the product is not such that we can discuss it right now." And since this meeting, it has indeed been February 2016, to this day I have not seen you prepare or publish any public network on the primary or secondary level. I ask you kindly once again for a definitive answer, whether you are still sure, or whether you can convince me that this is a public network, and discard these words of your colleague. Look, we have, I think, even the three meetings of the mother board the ministry has also pointed out what is, as a result, now also guilty of having public health establishments with losses, the adoption of emergency medical assistance regulations. The fact is, at that time, this regulation and this project were carried out in secret and without the participation of the profession, especially the rural professions. At the time, we warned that you do not have such an overall staff organisation, but financial structures for the operation of all these emergency centres. The fact is, these emergency centres have also been shown to have an impact on negative business, not just pediatric emergency centres, which the ministry has forgotten at all. We have already alerted the Ministry when adopting the Emergency Medical Aid Regulation to the pediatric centres, but the Ministry finally responded after one year, saying in March 2016 and established a working group to prepare this project. I know that the pilot project of the pediatric emergency centre is being carried out in Celje, but I also know that funding is not yet resolved. As I said before, these emergency and paediatric centres still have a bearing on the negative outcome of public health institutions. However, let me give you some encouragement that we will not have just one fictional writing here and imagine something, as we have heard today. Your Secretary of State also said at a meeting of the Commission on Public Finance Supervision that funding for emergency centres was not well thought out at first. Well, that's a nice look we've been listening to here all morning. She said that it was not well thought out, so what I am saying is that the negative functioning of public health institutions was also influenced by emergency centres and pediatric emergency centres, which were not well thought out if I repeat the words of the Secretary of State. When we point out corruption or long-term waiting periods, or, as we point out today, public health institutions, it bothers me more than once when the Minister says she is not responsible for the operation of public health institutions and, on the other hand, at the very moment she took over this function, she said that she had begun to deal with the rehabilitation of the revenue and expenditure side of public health institutions. I think the Minister will have to decide once whether or not she is responsible. If it is responsible, it will have to work hard and start interfering with the functioning of public health institutions, not only as now more than I would say, but politically. Or she'll have to say, I'm not responsible, the councils of public health institutions and directors are responsible. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u81	The word is Branko Zorman.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. After these reading lessons, colleague Pojbič, in which he delighted us with reading the daily newspaper as usual and with his trips to the unknown, where he found, among other things, that even at the end of the year, which is also the end of the year, whatever that means, we should say this: today we do not decide on these recommendations, because we have already rejected them on the home committee; why we rejected them, we have already explained them. Of course, the main reason for this is that everything the Government and the Ministry are calling for to do, the Government and the Ministry are already doing, and it has also been reported on which measures are already active and which are just before the introduction. As far as speculation is concerned, what will be the losses of public health institutions in the end, and that they do not work badly, we will not make it worse. The fact is that at the beginning of the year and not at the end of the year and the reports on the operation of public health institutions for 2016 we will not have them, we will have them in March and then we will be able to draw the line whether they were doing business or not and who or who better to ask what the reason is. In the debate someone said that he did not understand how the director of a public health institution could agree to exceed certain costs, that is to say to confirm some expenditure which is known to have no coverage at the end of the year. The one who says that, of course, does not understand the functioning of the system or is being manipulated, it is said, that he does not know how the system works. If we know how public health services are paid – and the revenues of public health institutions are just payments by the health treasury, that is to say, payments by the ZZZS. This is said to result in paid programmes for which a so-called general agreement is signed at the beginning of the year. And as far as they're concerned, they get as much paid in accordance with the general arrangement. Now, here we come to the essence of the problem, but if this program is exceeded, then of course, when the patient comes to their door and needs some health care, they've already achieved what they're going to tell this patient. “Excuse me, we have already achieved the program, if we provide you now, we will work minus, we cannot reach you.” That's your logic. It is logical to make sure that the patient receives the health care he needs, regardless of whether at the end of the year, due to this service minus. I'm cariculating, I'm stressing, I'm cariculating, but it's said, there's a need to provide health care for everyone who needs it. Of course, the system is, it seems, the way I described it, it's not real, it's not good, we all know that. Who is responsible for the amendment and the proposal for new accounting systems? Who? Health Treasury, Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia. We know why the previous candidate for director did not receive support – because he was there for nine years and none of this has changed. Part of this problem that we are talking about today is also there. It's a big part of the problem. I have to respond to the suggestion that the Court of Auditors' opinion shows that public health institutions have been operating poorly in our mandate since September, as of August 2014. Here I return to the debate that we had at the beginning of this session when it was said what is a lie and what is not a lie. That's a lie, of course. Since the applicants well know that this Court of Auditors report relates to the period from 1. 1. 2007 to 1. 1. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This government has a mandate since September 2014. And during this period, during this eight-year period, the proposer was twice a ruling party. Twice. And if we did then what needs to be done, what is now apparent to us, that our government and this ministry are not doing, which, of course, has been demented and explained, what is being done and how it is done, then we might not have this debate today. But we do. But now putting the blame, which is not only yours, is a fact, on all previous policies, on current policies, but at least what is, is incorrect. I wouldn't talk about self-criticism because we know where we are. So, the fact is that the Government of Action, the Ministry of Action, we have already said nothing about the measures today, so I will not go into the content. In short, let's wait until March when the results are clear, and then we can talk about these results. And once again, we need to talk about the reasons why the results are such, but very objectively, not politically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u83	We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which we will give the floor to a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer. Ms Nina Pirnat, State Secretary, Ministry of Health, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u84	Thank you very much. There are only two things I would like to respond to because they have been exposed several times today, one being a network. Of course, the network we have is already written in a document published on the website of the Ministry of Health, the Public Network of Primary Health Activities in the Republic of Slovenia in 2013. And this describes the situation in 2013 and covers the general or family medicine clinic and the paediatric field at the primary level. However, we need to know that many things have changed since 2013 and today. Since 2011, so-called reference clinics have been introduced into the family medicine area, where a family doctor has also been joined by a graduate nurse in order to identify better management and support patients with chronic non-communicable diseases. And this standard needs to be put in a new one. In addition, modern trends around the world have led to the transfer of work from secondary to primary level. In addition, we know that demographic changes have led to an increase in the number of chronic patients. The patients are getting older. On the other hand, there are increasing requirements for the education of patients. And, of course, this requires a change of criteria and a change in the network described in 2013. This is precisely what the resolution refers to, and that is why strategies for the development of primary health care with all areas, as described in the introduction, are also being prepared. The second point concerns the revision of waiting rows in the UKC carried out by the Court of Auditors. Let me say that this audit has been considered in the Office's world and has also required all the measures proposed by the Court of Auditors to be implemented. The implementation of the measures will be reviewed by the members of the Board of the Institute by the end of summer 2017. I give this as a direct response to the debate that has been here today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u85	Ms Nada Brinovšek also receives the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Look, I've said before that the coalition states that the priority of this government is mainly health care. I wonder how many health-care meetings have been convened by the coalition in this term. Nothing. I ask you how many laws have been prepared in view of the fact that you had seventeen acts in the normative work programme for 2015 and 2016. How much was ready? Four plus a resolution. You've been a little more careful for 2017, you've given, I think, only three, and I don't know what kind of help, but if you succeed. Then I could say that the priority of the Slovenian Democratic Party is health. We've seen that the priority of this government is not. Look, we've called nineteen emergency meetings in this term, as I said before, and we've also had regular sessions. And I'll tell you what we've been alerting you to at these extraordinary sessions. We have drawn attention to the deteriorating financial situation in health care, that is, today's meeting, to the co-responsibility of public health institutions, is said by the Ministry of Health, and to its co-responsibility in the recruitment of public health institutions. We have warned that the Minister has not yet approached the preparation of key health legislation. Now something is being said about the Health and Health Insurance Act, since the three copies were made, I hope that more will appear and show that this law will be better coordinated at least during the coalition, and so the opposition will have the issue of when it will get an overview. We have pointed out the responsibility of the Minister in establishing and operating a network of emergency centres, I have previously talked about her responsibility for not taking action in the area of the extension of waiting periods in health care, her responsibility for non-action in the field of corruption in health care, her responsibility in the preparation of legislation based on political priorities, which are, of course, at the expense of patients and employees in public health institutions, her actions and the Minister's positions in the exercise of political functions that result in lost confidence in health institutions. We also pointed out the irregular situation at UKC Ljubljana, the irregularities that took place when the emergency medical regulation was adopted. All I can think about this time is the emergency medical policy. I won't mention it. I'm not going to mention it. By today's debate, we wanted to point out, in essence, the negative functioning of public health institutions or that the operation of public health institutions in 2015 has deteriorated significantly in the first half of 2016. We have heard several times today from the debate that 29 public health institutions have incurred almost 21 million losses in the first half of 2016. Of these 29 public health institutions, 14 hospitals have incurred a loss of 19.3 million and 12 hospitals, a miracle, look at 2.8 million surplus. So hospitals can also do business with profits or, sorry, with surpluses. And if we look at one year ago, which is official data, 23 hospitals did business positively, they created 10 million 400 surpluses, and they did business negatively for 3 hospitals that created 9 million 800 deficits. And of these hospitals, which operated the worst in the first half of 2016, the UKC Ljubljana, which operated with a loss of 12.7 million in the first half of this year. For information, in 2015, UKC Ljubljana had 6 million losses, it is said that this loss increased more than once, and we have warned that UKC is forecasting a 20 million loss for the end of this year, despite the fact that its Director, Mr. Copač, at the time of his appointment, said that he would reduce costs and so on. The second after the biggest loss of the hospital was a champagne hospital, producing 1.8 million losses. Third, UKC Maribor, 1.3 million euros in losses. And these discussions, and what we have written in the reference to today's session, are not some of our insinuations, let us, let us not, I do not know how my colleague Jani has already expressed himself, we have done so on the basis of written facts. Based on the report of the Association of Health Institutions of Slovenia. I mentioned earlier in the debate the debate of the President of the Association of Health Institutions of Slovenia, who said that they did not expect such a loss at six months, that there would be an even greater loss at the end of the 1990s, and what is most worrying is that there would be an even greater loss at the end of 2016. And it is not true that this statement I have heard, I think colleague Škopac said that the institutions operate in the first half of the year worse, but at the end of the year, of course better. The fact is, it's not like that. The fact is, I have also said that when the UKC announced its loss, it announced this in its business report for the first 6 months. And in this report, he predicted a 20-million-dollar loss at the end of the year. I don't think he was predicting something on the reserve or that, I don't know, would have happened. However, I am also afraid, according to the President of the Association of Health Institutions of Slovenia, that this 20 million-dollar loss will be even greater. What is also worrying is that the Council of the Public Institute of UKC Ljubljana did not react. He didn't take any action. Nor did the Minister of Health require any remedial measures. On the other hand, I don't know what protocols and so on. We know that, last year, I think, on the basis of a protocol adopted by the Ministry, there were quite 88 members of the boards of public institutions that were not meeting some experience and I do not know what knowledge, but it is very sad that, in fact, representatives in the councils of public health institutions must have higher knowledge and are expected from them than, for example, from the director of UKC Ljubljana. I hope that you have looked at his statements at the presentation in the institution's world, and I hope that you have also watched and created a picture of his knowledge last time on the investigative commission. I must say, I was alone at home watching this in the living room, and I was only in front of myself with the shame of his answers and his performance. I'm sorry. Look, with this meeting, as I said before, we wanted to point out in our view the critical situation that is taking place in public health institutions. But in today's debate, many mentioned that it was the fault that the Slovenian Institute for Health Insurance had reduced the prices of health services, that they had an additional impact on these losses, of course, the costs that had eased from progress in 2015 and the implementation of programmes over planned. But, dear fellows, do you understand why 12 hospitals could then deal in surpluses? The question is, maybe these hospitals haven't done their job at all, just as they have planned. They may not have paid those advances or they may have received from the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia otherwise, at some higher price, paid service for their performance. I don't think so, but these public health institutions or hospitals have acted responsibly, their directors have acted responsibly and the Council of the Public Institute has acted responsibly. I am pleased that when I spoke with former Director Fakin – and also, I think, in one of the discussions of my mother's working body – he said that the biggest reason is the management of public health institutions. And I think that is also the opinion, as far as I know, of the current director or potential candidate for director of the Slovenian Institute for Health Insurance. We wanted to point out or point out, as far as we could, the Court of Auditors' audit report and the Court of Auditors' audit report and the measures that the Ministry of Health has not yet carried out. We have also drawn attention to the recommendations issued by the anti-corruption Commission, and we have not received an answer here whether or not the ministry has already implemented or implemented corrective measures. Once again, the fact is that the negative result of health institutions has no doubt been influenced, as I said before, by the introduction of centres of emergency which have not been considered, neither by staff nor by the organisation, but by the financial arrangements for their operation. I also mentioned PUT, or pediatric emergency centers. The fact that the situation in the health sector or health institutions which operated negatively, as it is, has also been affected by legislation that has not yet been amended or has changed for two and a half years and I think respected colleagues from the coalition are too late to change anything else in this mandate, but hope is dying last. The fact is, there is a need to prepare a public network on both the primary and the secondary. Once again, I'm going to argue that these networks are not what they're supposed to be. There is an urgent need to amend legislation in the area of the transformation of public health institutions in accordance with EU law, to give more powers and, consequently, more responsibility to the directors of public health institutions, and at least at this point, I think that we were united with our colleague from SD. In our debates today we have also pointed out the political recruitment of this minister or, I will say what these coalitions are. I don't feel comfortable with Baricič, Digger, Beach Hospital, etc. We also pointed out that it was the fault of the government to order needles, diapers, gloves and catheters by decision of March 2015. At that time, she defined this as some kind of joint public procurement. See March 2015. But we're at the end of January 2017. What's the deal? Nothing. After two years. Well, the greatest pest, which is still a hindrance to our health, is undoubtedly corruption, and we will talk about this corruption at the next point quite a bit, which is the fact that we are witnessing the exhaustion of health care, that public money is flowing from public institutions to private pockets, and that is why the hospitals are in red numbers. This makes the government unhappy – I believe you are dissatisfied – suffers from the profession and, last but not least, our citizens suffer. Bad or negative public health institutions are definitely affected by long, I'll say, too long a waiting line. 246 thousand Slovenians are waiting somewhere for a checkup or some sort of service to receive it from the area or for their health. And that this number is even more frightening, look, it's every eighth Slovenian. If we just look in here right now, how long we have somewhere waiting in line, there's something going on. And 120 million would be necessary to remove the waiting species. The question is, where do you get them? Perhaps some measures or accelerated corruption procedures would come as quickly as 120 million, possibly up to twice, three times, possibly up to four times the sum. So, we've been trying to draw attention to this issue today, we've been pointing out this issue, as I said before, at the 19 extraordinary meetings of the Health Committee, we've been alerting this issue for two and a half years, but unfortunately we always run into deaf ears by the coalition. That no one would think that if he did not read this recommendation for today's session by chance, because the debate was going in every way possible, but what the hell conclusions we have proposed. See, we have proposed to examine the network of health service providers at secondary level; to carry out all the necessary activities that will undoubtedly contribute to determining the optimal use of medical devices – and I do not think this is the case – that the Ministry of Health will start by keeping records of the procurement of medical equipment in public health institutions – this point and the previous point or proposal for a decision have been introduced in the measures taken by the Court of Auditors to take measures to reduce the deficit in public health institutions and to report to the Ministry within six years on the performance of public health institutions and to present the optimization of the procurement processes of materials and equipment. Dear colleagues, do you find this so impossible that you could not confirm them at the parental board meeting? Unfortunately, as I said before, the Minister is not here today and I have already said that we miss her terribly on the Health Committee. There are no measures under the Coalition Treaty. We know that you have six measures written down, none of these measures have yet been implemented. There are no changes in the field of legislation, as I said before, 17 laws you have somehow set yourself to adopt in 2015/2016. You have submitted four to the National Assembly and a resolution. So, grade one. But all that happens in the area of health is the affair, corruption, the loss of public health institutions, the long waiting line, and the worst part, I will say, the departure of our doctors and patients to treatment abroad. Our citizens are losing faith and confidence in such a health system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u87	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss the matter. I'm guessing yes. I'm asking you to sign up. The application shall be made. Mrs. Jelka Godec, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u88	Thank you so much for saying that. I have to respond to the words of the coalition MP from the SMC, who, in my words, when I spoke in the sense that I bought apples and made ham, said that I had bought pears and worked forks. Mr Zorman, I was talking about overbiding the purchase of material at the UKC Ljubljana public tender and I was not talking about overstepping programmes for the implementation of the programmes in UKC Ljubljana. That's a big difference. And yes, I agree, normally, if surgery occurs, if the patient waits for him to be operated and there are also these overruns in the implementation of the programmes that have been planned. It is interesting, however, that certain hospitals in seven years of age cannot find that they need some material more than they announce in the invitation to tender. That's interesting, and that's what I was talking about. And then the procurement manager vehemently replied: “Yes, that’s why the UKC has a loss.” See, if – and here too – you misunderstood because you said that I was talking about the director who signed such public invitations, no, I was talking about the buyer. So, that was the first mistake, the second mistake, I wasn't talking about programs, I was talking about getting material. And yes, after the month of March we will have final reports on the operation of public institutions in 2016 and believe me that we will look well under your fingertips. And for all your statements that are today, of course, in March, April, we will also check to see if they hold all your statements, if the Ministry has done everything to ensure that our biggest hospital does not have losses. That and the reasons for all this, Mr Zorman, are also political. Not just objective. You have said that we will look at objective reasons, including political reasons for anomalies in health care. So we can look at all the reasons, subjective, objective, political, I don't know what else you want. It is necessary to look at the wider spectrum and here again I have to agree with your colleague Janie when he says that we are looking at more, that there are several aspects, and Mr Zorman says that there are only objective reasons. No, no, no. Even in health care there are subjective reasons, including political reasons, but in Slovenia there is a constant appearance that no one is subjectively responding, and that is how some people know nothing about what objective responsibility means, neither the Minister nor the Head of Hospitals nor the Chief of Procurement do not know who. So about objective responsibility, it's just one part that we're talking about. It would be good to talk about subjective responsibility, why there are negative conditions in hospitals, so much loss, why certain matters are not regulated as they should be regulated. But no, this government is constantly talking about objective responsibility, or I am already worried that we will talk about collective responsibility. So let's hide behind the collective, hide behind the Ministry, hide behind the sacred institutions. Let us also talk about subjective responsibility. Mr. Zorman, I would like to ask that the second time, if you're referring to me and you're looking at me, what I've been saying about the excesses of certain cases in hospitals – so once again – I didn't say that the director signed, but that I'm talking about procurement. I was talking about the purchase of materials that they couldn't see in a particular hospital in seven years, that they were exceeding these supplies and that they needed more, and they still stayed with lower quantities. However, I did not talk about over-exploiting programs, any operations, or that patients should therefore be left without care at the hospital. So I'd like to ask you in the following performances to state what I said and not to utter words. I don't know where you learned these things so much that you hear one thing, and then you take a little bit of your own. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u89	We conclude the general debate on the proposal for a recommendation. Unfortunately, replicas in this part are not possible. In accordance with the Commission's interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, we have already had the opportunity to apply, so that we conclude the debate. I believe that we will have another opportunity to discuss this at the next point. In accordance with the interpretation, as already stated, of the Rules of Procedure Commission of 9. 12. In the 2009 National Assembly, I note that the procedure for the consideration of the proposal has been completed. I also conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving on to 15. At the end of the day, this is what the proposal recommended in relation to systemic corruption in health. The proposal for a recommendation was submitted to the assembly by a group of 18 Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this proposal, the group of 19 Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to Mrs Jelka Godec's representative.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u90	Thank you so much for saying that. [[advertising from the hall]] No, my friend, we are not going again from the beginning, we are going to a new topic, and this is corruption, which we have repeatedly warned about in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. Perhaps from this point of view, yes, we go again, but why do we go again — because the government does not move and because the coalition is happy to defend or raise its hands against our recommendations. So, given the impact of corruption and the recommendations today, it is not the first time that we have invested this. During the extraordinary meetings of the Health Committee, we have pointed out this several times, at the end of 2015, at the beginning of 2016, on the subject of systemic corruption in health. At that time, both the Government, the Ministry and the National Assembly coalition were not prepared to hear or support our recommendations, which went in the direction of the Government and the Ministry of Health, but to take measures to curb corruption in health. Thus, at the beginning of 2016, we had no choice but to take the initiative to set up an Investigative Commission to identify abuses in the Slovenian health system in the field of sales and purchase of vascular restraints, which is now successfully carrying out its work. Although individual cases appear daily, showing that the Ministry and Government are still blinding themselves to corruption in the health sector, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group at the end of last year has reiterated or recommended to the Government that it respond more actively and decisively to individual cases of corruption in the health sector. At the same time, not only does she respond to these individual cases by saying that the minister goes to a particular hospital and is photographed and thinks that she has resolved matters, but she is systematically committed to remedying health irregularities that indicate suspicions of corruption in the health system. In the end, the Committee on the Prevention of Corruption in the Field of Vulnerable Restraints in this case found certain suspicions of corruption, gave its opinion in principle and also handed it over to the Ministry of Health. And today it will be interesting to hear what the Ministry of Health has done in this area, because it has been a while since this report. So, these corruptions in health care are already being discussed by all Slovenia today, media reporting is almost every day on some of these topics. The strong pressure of lobbyists, registered and unregistered, about lobby pressure was also discussed by the minister at the time of the interpretation, and she also spoke publicly on television. In the view of the Government, it is sufficient for the Government to adopt in January 2015 a programme entitled the Programme of Action of the Government of Slovenia to Prevent Corruption 2015-2016: zero tolerance for corruption. According to the Minister, who declared them at the 29th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly 3. 3. 2016, this is a two-year programme, 2015-2016. At the time, the minister said: "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has taken corruption in a very systematic and comprehensive way to manage it, which is why it has already adopted a special Programme of Action of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the Prevention of Corruption for 2015-2016, entitled Zero Tolerance to Corruption... At the end of July last year, the Government also adopted a two-year action plan to implement the Public Administration Development Strategy 2015-2016 on the basis of a programme of measures. The vision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is to organise a modern public administration that will respect the principles and values also in the field of transparency, integrity and the prevention of corruption." So, once again, it is a two-year programme and, according to the Minister, the measure of centralising and informing public procurement in public health is also included in this programme. The Ministry of Public Administration and the Ministry of Health are responsible for this measure. And now I am interested in the well-respected coalition, but of course all others present, what are the results of this measure. So what are the results of centralising and informing public procurement in public health or a programme called zero tolerance for corruption, a two-year programme, 2015 and 2016. I do not think you know that you do not know what the results of this measure are, because only the ministry in its answers to the questions sent gives – and also the ministry – contradictory answers. I have asked within a month, a month and a half a number of different questions that covered questions on this subject, and have received three different answers. First, the Minister argues in a vehement manner in a response, then I will have more time in the debate to save 20% of the Ministry's total public procurement for medicines in just a year. Five days from now, another answer comes in which the minister says they didn't save anything because all public contracts are still under way. Then comes the government's response to our recommendations, where for medicines, needles, diapers, gloves, catheters and other materials, they distribute nicely. And this response shows that all public procurements are still under way. They have not yet been completed due to audits, procedures and so on. How can the Minister reply that the result of this action is saved 20% of the funds and then a secretary on Committee 10. 1. Again, does it say that nothing is saved because public procurement has not yet been completed, but that 2011 has been saved? Now, whether you are fooling yourself with old successes or lying or cheating on the public; so today you will have the opportunity to answer this because in 19 months these public contracts have not been executed – it is said, due to audits and so on, not to say that the minister says she saved 20%. And then the minister also speaks publicly to the cameras and also speaks to the citizens, of course, and convinces them that things are going normally, is being saved. At the same time, of course, hospitals are still purchasing this material by order and annex, following public calls that have already been made, and it is likely that it is also overpaying if the minister says that when that happens, we will save. The second thing is that the Minister constantly promises a register of purchases or registers of medical material with prices to see comparable prices, and today I think it was said that this will be published at the end of January 2017, that they do this together with UKC Maribor, but I did not hear UKC Ljubljana. Does UKC Ljubljana also participate? Since UKC Ljubljana is also the one with the biggest loss and is also shown to be the most on the material, the investigation commission also identifies the potential for corruption, the KPK found suspicions of corruption on the purchasing side. Does UKC Ljubljana also participate in establishing a register of medical material with all prices comparable in Slovenia? But now we are talking again about comparability in Slovenia, but we are not talking about comparability with prices on European markets. Are we going to save money here or are we still going to stay on that level? So, in Slovenia there are such prices, suppliers walk freely through hospitals, as has been said, and there is also, according to the KPK, possibilities or suspicions of corruption. When will the Ministry and the Government finally take measures that are within its jurisdiction to ensure that the various corrupt actions do not result in such measures, including systemic measures that will not allow the free passage of ambulances to hospitals, so that lobbyists will regularly report that lobbyist contacts will be reported and so on? Do not say that the Ministry has nothing to do with this, so it depends on the directors and individual doctors. The Ministry can make some recommendations to hospitals, but this is not forbidden. So I expect from the government today the answer, or from the Ministry, whether you gave any instructions to hospitals on how to take action in the event of the free movement of accelerators for the sale of material by hospitals, lobbying and so on. I also want to know what the results of the famous waiting period reduction program are, whether this money really went to reduce waiting periods or whether this money might have been spent elsewhere and how you respond to doctors’ specific bribes in order to avoid waiting periods. Thus, waiting periods trigger these longer waiting periods, including actions that may be smaller or larger in scope. Today is an opportunity for the Minister to explain this to the coalition to defend this as many times as we have in our recommendations. The ministry also constantly convinces citizens that we have a good one of the best health systems among the members of the European Union, but today we can look again at the UKC Ljubljana emergency, and we can look at all these examples from the past how our health system works. So that corruption also occurs if I stay in that we will not – I mean, at the previous point we have already talked about expensive medical equipment and certain things – but is this really the best example for all other systems? Why do we not follow some other European systems that are a little bit different so that these things do not happen? But it is true that we cannot if the head of the acquisition of UKC Ljubljana says that the statement of the Director-General of a Finnish hospital is a grandmother's chateau. Then we know where we are, and it seems to me that measures will definitely be needed here by the ministry or the government, systemically, but not in the sense of defending again. Analysis needs to be done, matters need to be reviewed, whether there is corruption in health care really needs to be examined. But we should have reacted a little while ago, and today we'll probably hear that what we're proposing is some suspicion, we're picking it up, I don't know where, it's not happening, even though people confirm it. Finally, the NPU has been in the hands of cases for two years, then to issue a report on certain matters. If I'm talking about the veins because we're working on this investigation, then the NPU doesn't even want to hand this report over to the investigative commission. What is hiding in Slovenia? Why are criminals working on one case for two years and then not reporting on corruption? So, whether the ministry, well, the ministry probably doesn't have this authority to call, but the government, like the government, also has the justice ministry, the NPU is under the auspices of the Ministry of the Interior, and I could say that these matters are produced slightly differently or that matters could be accelerated by the government. I think that our recommendations we made – as a proposaler, I think we have done nothing wrong if we call on the Government or the Government and the Ministry to immediately take the necessary measures to thoroughly reorganise the procurement processes and services associated with medical equipment with the emphasis on expensive medical equipment. See, the answer will probably be: "Yes, because we have issued joint public contracts," but the joint public contracts have not yet been completed by 2015, until today, 2017. And don't tell me that then it's a measure that's effective, which gives results because it doesn't. So something else will have to be done in this area. We propose to the Government and the Ministry of Health to present an analysis of the health impact of the joint public procurement measure envisaged for 2015. So that everyone hears what you have given the Members in response and you have written down there how public procurement is taking place; that you call on the competent institutions to take immediate and more decisive action in the area of determining the responsibility of individuals in corruption. This is not happening in Slovenia. In Slovenia, those who are in certain procedures can still do things, those who prove things can continue to do things. Where, then, is this subjective responsibility, objective and ultimately also political responsibility? Will the Ministry or Government do anything in this area? And the final recommendation to prepare immediately, namely the Government and the Ministry, and the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, presents the necessary legal changes allowing transparent public procurement. What the Ministry is preparing, if it is preparing something, does not indicate that it is being obtained to improve these matters. And even in the reform proposals, those we have now received in the lines, in proposals, not in the form of a law, do not foresee any improvement in the management of public institutions, the reduction of waiting periods, the acquisition of material, and obviously these joint public procurements, which were given in 2015, the beginning of 2015, will not bring immediate results. As far as corruption is concerned, once again. Everything I've said has something to do with health corruption. We can't close our eyes on this. I hope that none of the coalition and other Members of Parliament will turn their eyes and say, “Yes, there is no corruption.” Yes, it is. That's what we've all figured out. But what can the government, the state, and the National Assembly do to get closer to this zero-tolerant, but not to put an end to it? We have also heard this several times in the National Assembly that it is not possible to address this, but that we are getting closer to those zero tolerances and that then also the investigative offices, the investigative institutions are working effectively in this area. So, for the ministry, I hope that we will then get these answers in the debate or in the answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u91	To present the report of the Health Committee, I give the floor to his Vice-President, Mr Branko Zorman. Since I do not see him in the Chamber, I propose that we move on to an introductory explanation of my opinion to the representative of the Government at the Ministry of Health, State Secretary Nina Pirnat. Here you go, Mrs. Pirnat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Good day again! Thus, the Ministry of Health has been dealing with the issue of procurement or investment in expensive medical equipment for hospitals, the purchase of medicines and medical devices in hospitals for a long time, and thus the associated corruption risks. At the very beginning of the mandate, the government and the ministry have taken a systemic and economic approach to solving this problem, also on the basis of a clearly defined and reported position and the objective of zero tolerance to corruption. Planning measures are also implemented, are linked to procurement and management of medical equipment for public health institutions, hospitals and the purchase of medicines and medical devices. In opening, I should like to reiterate that the area of public procurement of goods, services and works has been regulated by law with major or minor changes for almost 20 years. The Slovenian legislation of this area is harmonised with the acquis of the European Union. I should also point out that Slovenian hospitals are independent economic operators in relation to the approved health services programmes they carry out and, in view of the needs of the activities, they also purchase medicines and medical devices. In this procurement, they have been committed to strict compliance with public procurement rules for more than 15 years, which means that the problem raised by the proposer in this area is not new. The situation identified by the proposer has also evolved over a number of years. It is true, however, that the Ministry of Health and the Government, in this mandate, intervene in the field of procurement and procurement processes in the health sector and regulate it as planned, as the previous governments may not. Of course, given that the situation has accumulated for a long time, we cannot settle the area overnight. What did we do? The Ministry of Health has made recommendations to the directors of all public health institutions to carry out, to the extent and in the manner necessary, prior to the formal execution of the procurement procedures for all procurement items. One of the basis for market verification will also be the establishment of a record of the prices of all medicines and medical devices purchased by Slovenian hospitals. As already stated at the previous point, the Ministry of Health, in cooperation with the Association of Health Institutions and UKC Maribor, is preparing a modern information system in which, of course, all hospitals will be included. At the end of 2016, the Ministry also set up a record for the so-called expensive medical equipment, a equipment that was dealt with by the Court of Auditors in the framework of its audit on the effectiveness of medical equipment management, with an emphasis on expensive medical equipment. The records of the remaining medical equipment – as I have already stated – will be recorded on the basis of the Ministry of Health’s instructions on the management of this facility – and will be established in the coming months. The government and the Ministry of Health are interfering with the procurement of Slovenian hospitals through a joint procurement project that will be carried out for all purchases where necessary. Let me clarify here some of the concepts that have already been mentioned. The total public procurement for medicinal products started in 2011, when 300 medicines and 77 substances were included in the project and since then 8.5% of the savings on this topic have been recorded. In 2014-2015, four 6-month contracts were concluded on the basis of the Framework Agreement, which provides for an annual savings of 20%. Secondly, the new common public procurements started in 2015 and 2016, which have not yet been completed. Those who are not closed, of course, cannot yet make savings. However, savings were made by the Ministry of Health’s total public procurement for emergency centre equipment, which saved 30%, amounting to EUR 3 million. During the last period, as has been said, the right to respect the patient’s time has also proved to be a pressing problem. Therefore, the Ministry of Health has also taken part in the amendment of the area of waiting lists, waiting periods. In a public debate that began 11. 12. In 2016, a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Patient Rights and a proposal for a new regulation on the procurement and management of waiting lists and maximum waiting periods in the public health service network were presented. It is important to stress that there have also been several indications today that the Ministry of Health is operating within its powers. In the framework of its powers, however, it shall be prepared and shall cooperate with law enforcement authorities or competent institutions in the field of detection and fight against corruption. Next on a joint public contract. In 2017, a public procurement contract is envisaged for the purchase of materials for intervention cardiology, including stents, which are likely to be heard today, as well as materials for intervention radiology. In short, we also expect the completion of procedures for the purchase of diapers, gloves, needles and catheter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u93	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary of State. The following is a presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups: as the first Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, Mrs Nada Brinovšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u94	Thank you for your word. Have a nice hello again! With the current state of health in Slovenian health, which, according to many words, is literally failing to disclose irregularities in the purchase of medical equipment and medicines, the dissatisfaction of doctors, the extension of waiting periods, the departures of young doctors abroad, the departure of patients abroad, the collection of money to enable treatment abroad and the growing lack of confidence of citizens in the public health system, of course, raises the question why such arrogance of the President of the Government of Slovenia and the Minister of Health to health problems and, consequently, also to the taxation money of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Warned the Minister of Health that it is necessary to amend health legislation, that irregularities occur in the Ministry, that there are affairs, corruption within health care, that there are political cadres, that we have long, long waiting lines, that public health institutions are in losses, that our young doctors and patients are going abroad – you unfortunately do not hear these warnings from the Minister and the coalition. At the intervention of the Minister of Health, the President of the Government of Media said, quote: “Minister Kolar Celarc enjoys my full support, because the right person is in the right position to realize a common vision of better Slovenian health for us.” Further: “When I appointed her Minister of Health, I knew she would improve the lives of our citizens and citizens and improve the health system to be what we deserve.” If I look at the hall right now, I think you're laughing on one side, and maybe on the other side you're crying, because none of what the President of the Government said at the time is true. I ask where is a common vision of better Slovenian health care and whether we really deserve such health care. Because of the long waiting lines our citizens and citizens are desperate, they feel that the country has left them alone. Tragic events are happening, increasing violence against healthcare workers is taking place, and corruption in health is on the rise. Because of these irregularities, affairs and corruption, we have had 19 extraordinary meetings of the Health Committee in our parliamentary group in this mandate, as I mentioned earlier in my position and debate. At the autumn session on systemic corruption, we proposed two conclusions, namely that the Ministry, when preparing health reform, prepare a comprehensive solution to eliminate systemic corruption on the principle of zero tolerance and that, in the public health institutions of which the State is the founder, also ensure business on the principle of zero tolerance to corruption. Now, of course, the coalition of our proposals has not confirmed, despite the fact that it is so popular to refer to or like to refer to zero tolerance for corruption. And with this zero tolerance for corruption, the President of the Anti-Corruption Commission said at one of the last meetings of the Health Committee that, given the corruption that is happening in our country, it is insulting to talk about the zero point. Interestingly, even at the beginning of last year's National Assembly recommendation on corruption, we received a warning letter just before the start of the meeting by a law firm in view of the topic that we were considering, which predicts the initiation of judicial proceedings before a competent court. There was nothing out of that threat of happiness. Although coalition colleagues have warned both the Health Committee and the National Assembly that health care is enshrined in the coalition contract under measures, I quote: “Implementing zero tolerance for health corruption. Of all those who are responsible for the rise of corruption by their (non-)action, we will require personal responsibility." I'm afraid nothing happened. And where are these measures now, and where is this responsibility now? No action, no change, no determination of responsibility. Members of the Coalition have probably all of you at these meetings on corruption have debated that corruption is in health. So, you agree, there's corruption in health. However, you could not agree on whether it was corruption or systemic corruption. And of course, even then, you did not support our recommendations on systemic corruption. If we look at the definition of what systemic corruption is. Systemic corruption is corruption within the entire system. The concept represents a situation where a company or a state operates in a corrupt way. When it comes to this, it is no longer possible to fight corruption in a normal way, but more radical action, prevention, is needed. It's, uh, well-respected colleagues, systemic corruption. The fact is, in the health field, we face corruption within the entire system. Individuals, society and the state act in a corrupt way. Here we will recall only the statements of the Director General of UKC Ljubljana at the Commission for Public Finance Supervision in early February 2016. Because of the Minister's non-response and the rejected recommendations on systemic corruption, we have also decided to submit a request to the National Assembly for a parliamentary inquiry into vein support led by colleague Jelka Godec, and I am confident that this commission will reach some conclusions before the end of the mandate. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the transparent work of healthcare institutions, purchasing services and doctors, of course, increases confidence in health care. The transparent work of law enforcement authorities also increases confidence in the rule of law. Sadly, though, given our warnings at the meetings, it is a sad fact that no one responds to media warnings and warnings from the profession. If he's reacting, take it easy. The fact is that health legislation needs a thorough overhaul to help improve the quality of health services and reduce waiting types, the fact is that the health system is not working, and the fact is that there is systemic corruption within the system. And a dot, I'll say. While at one of the meetings on corruption, the Minister of Health listed the measures taken by the Ministry to reduce corruption. These measures include the adoption by the Ministry of Health in early 2015 of a protocol on the selection of candidates for representatives of Council founders in public health institutions. This is a measure to prevent corruption by the Minister. That's right. Well, with this adoption of the protocol, once again, as they say at the Ministry, they have pursued the goal of raising knowledge and experience needed to perform the role of a representative of the founder in the public health institution's world. In view of all the events that are taking place at UKC Ljubljana and the growing loss, it would probably be difficult to say that these representatives are doing well despite the protocol adopted and despite their knowledge of their work. On the home work body, according to the Health Committee, we heard at one of the meetings when we discussed the problem of staffing, by Dr. Konrad Kuštrin in connection with the appointment of representatives to the councils of public health institutions, quote: "This is only one cosmetic approach to the selection of new members of the board of institutions, but the main role still plays political affiliation. Political affiliation is also the one that puts people in the most responsible or leading positions, both managerial and lower in other management jobs." That, too, is corruption, my dear fellows. And if I stay a little longer with these protocols and quality systems, we're all familiar with last year's case at the Neurological Clinic. I'll tell you what helps us if the institutions have a quality system and some information, but if the patients don't take it into account, and even though they're being visited by an administrative inspection, then there's no epilogue on the part of this administrative inspection. No one has ever been responsible for the failure of the quality system and the information system at UKC Ljubljana, which provides for mandatory internal information, procedures, responsibilities and competence in the event of extraordinary events. Even in the case of Bunz we can testify that the information system within the UKC does not work well. His head of the Department of Cardiology did not know that information about his patients was being collected for the purpose of a particular register run by Bunč’s Society. So the chairman doesn't know what's going on in her department. However, that the matter was even more bizarre, the president of the Commission on Medical Ethics stated that the application was prepared in accordance with the instructions and that the institution was listed as the Clinical Centre, the Department of Cardiology, and not the Society of Bunčev, as it was. And the president doesn't know anything about it. There is no epilogue, no sanctions, and the fact is there is corruption behind this. In these cases, of course, it should be the exploitation of individuals with the help of the State, and at this point we must say that protocols and information systems in some of our institutions do not work, that is a fact. In its opinion on one of the previous meetings on corruption, the Government has also written down, inter alia, as regards the financial rental of medical devices and equipment, that this is not an illegal act and therefore the suspension of the responsible persons does not have a legal basis. Of course, the Government has ignored our warning that for UKC Ljubljana it has done business, a contract on the supply of reverse, a person who is not the legal representative of UKC. And besides, this contract was concluded by this person a month before the procurement decision was issued. Likewise, in its opinion, the Government has not commented on our claim that in such cases, reverse suppliers of equipment serve fat with services and consumption material, which means that the long-term rental for the hospital is much more expensive, much more expensive than the purchase of a device. The media also writes a lot about the transfer of money through public health institutions over the years to different suppliers and the pressure of influential individuals to supply certain equipment as well as material. The pressure is applied to doctors if they refuse to cooperate, they are resolved. However, if these influential individuals fail to reach their own, they also go to the President of the State, we are all aware of this statement, although it was later denied, but I do not think that there is a hero here between us who would believe that it has not been said, perhaps too quickly, but that there is a bit of truth behind it. Companies and individuals who are supposed to be involved in suspicious transactions still walk beautifully around this beautiful land of ours, are still subscribers and still suppliers. Unfortunately, these corrupt actions have resulted in the fact that the people who carry out these corrupt acts are protecting themselves, their friends, society, and the state is allowing them to do so. And that, fellow Members, is systemic corruption. We have also proposed five conclusions on these recommendations on systemic corruption in health, namely to discuss possible systemic corruption in health; to immediately take the necessary measures to thoroughly reorganise health procurement processes, to present an analysis of the effects of the 2015 joint public health procurement measure; to call on competent institutions to take immediate and, of course, more decisive action to identify the responsibility of individuals in corruption and to present to the National Assembly legislative changes that will allow transparent public procurement. But our recommendations on the parent's working body have also not been accepted by the coalition. However, although the recommendations have not been adopted, there is systemic corruption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u95	Mr Tomaž Gantar has the floor on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Vice President. Hello, everyone! We discussed corruption in health last year, and the position of the Desus Group is expected to be similar to that of last year. After all, nothing significant has happened since then, not in the adoption of measures or in the effects of the elimination of systemic corruption in health care. Even then, we have mentioned the indisputable fact that we are all certainly well-off, that corruption in our country is still quite present, most where the most public funds are being turned in one way or another. Health care is not in the first place, which is a very bad comfort. Since it is our health and the doubtful area where many problems have arisen and many of them are plagued by the very lack of money, corruption in health is so much more painful. We all feel it; over an unacceptable long waiting period, in outdated and underutilized medical equipment, too many health workers, many long or poorly built buildings. In one year of the last debate, only a few new affairs were planned, which were tainted by the suspicion of corruption, both in skipping waiting species and in the procurement of medical materials and medicines. As we were able to hear in the debate on the Committee, as well as today when presenting the opinion of the Government, the Ministry of Health is looking for solutions aimed at limiting the potential for corruption in the field of procurement and investment in medical equipment, the purchase of medicines and medical devices. The phrase on zero tolerance for corruption in itself is no longer sufficient. In the Desus Group we expect results, comprehensive measures and their implementation both by the Ministry of Health and public health institutions. We also believe that both the Commission to prevent corruption and the Court of Auditors will play an important role in the supervision and effectiveness of the proposed measures, which the Ministry of Health has or will take. In our Group of Members, we fear that many too much promise themselves from the system of joint public procurement. The procedures of centralised public procurement are very difficult at the same time as thousands of articles and, above all, long-term, the legislation in force in this area allows for a number of acts and delays in the procedures themselves. And it is precisely public procurement that represents the greatest corruption risk, while at the same time confirming our fear that the general public procurement, regardless of all good purposes, may cause a great deal of difficulty in purchasing and providing the necessary materials, medicines and equipment in a timely manner. The real solution to this problem is out of the question. At the same time, in the Desus Group, we are pleased that the Ministry of Health has also listened to our proposal to publish the prices at which public institutions purchase individual materials and medicines on a special portal, allowing them to be comparable and at the same time revealing excessively high payments for individual products. If they follow the Ministry's instructions, a register of the applicable purchase prices of medical devices and medicines will be established by the end of this month. In our parliamentary group we also expect the realization of a forecast to establish a record of medical equipment in Slovenian public health institutions. However, as an important corruption risk, we still consider the vaguely established border between public and private health. The solutions proposed by the Minister of Health in the amendment to the Health Act are considered insufficient and inadequate and we therefore expect clearer solutions in this area. Finally, in our parliamentary group, we believe that systemic corruption in health is not and cannot be simply and only a health problem. The prevention of corruption must in fact become a priority for the Government, which can affect all areas of control, prevention, detection and effective sanctioning of corruption at all levels. However, it may be precisely the area of health that shows in the most direct way all the consequences and all the damage caused by corruption and the price we end up paying all citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u97	The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, a magi for her. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! There is no magic formula for the elimination of systemic corruption and there will not be if we do not take this issue seriously and take it seriously by all those who are sitting here today and by all those who listen to this debate. However, we have come to the point that all who refuse to accept her removal will also start to work on prevention, and we will stop evading responsibility. I am convinced that everyone can act preventively to the best of his/her ability, and this can also be done without corruption risks at all. The task of abolishing systemic corruption in health care is not simple. It is a long-term process and does not depend solely on the Ministry of Health or Public Health. It is the task of all of us, of all citizens and of all the holders of public authority to stand firm against this. It's time. Let's see. We have long waiting periods and species. We have over-expenditures over business revenues, which are growing year after year, we have an unfinished emergency centre in the midst of the largest city, Ljubljana, for more than 10 years where employees have been working under impossible conditions, and patients who are sick in the cold are waiting for treatment and could still list. Isn't that the way it is? Is it true that we cannot jointly influence each other to eliminate systemic corruption in health care? It is true that we need health reforms, but that is nothing more than the changes that will put an end to this systemic corruption, at least that is how the Social Democrats understand them. Not such reforms as would further deepen or even legalise systemic corruption in health care. We are always talking about reforms, how we need them, how reforms can solve everything, but as soon as the slightest chance of change is felt, the enthusiasm for reforms is over and endless criticism begins to interfere with autonomy, the free market, the free economic initiative to hamper competitiveness, there are no reasons and there is no, and then nothing happens again. But if everyone truly understands the concept of corruption, we should all strive to achieve a common goal, namely, to achieve transparent, economical, prudent procurement of materials and thus justifiably use of public money and to build hospitals, health homes, laboratories, clinics, as the generations have done before us. Then, not only would we point to problems with our finger but we would focus on finding them. A solution that would enable our citizens, children, the elderly and the sick to provide better and more accessible health care and, last but not least, infrastructure. I am sure, and from this place I hope to say that the solutions are quite simple and also efficient and fast. We can end corruption, we have to eliminate it, we just have to start acting proactively. Isn't that our common goal? Therefore, we need to be aware that whenever anyone wants to move away from fair practice, we will do everything we can to prevent it. However, as long as most search for shortcuts or try to degrade such individuals who would warn of the distances, there should be no further leap of waiting, additional side income, responsibilities, or maintenance of nepotism, so long will be no different. The Ministry of Health, in its response to the recommendations, lists a number of procedures and measures that have already been or are still intended to be carried out. Will they be quick enough at the Ministry? Will all these measures fail? I don't know. I can't answer all these questions, but I know we need to start right now. Maybe the measures are not right, maybe we are doing everything wrong – indeed, in 2014, the amendments to the Public Procurement Act came into force in 2014 and the Government was given the authority to decide, within its annual plan, to carry out joint public procurements in public institutions; in June 2014, the Government also adopted a Regulation on the joint public procurement of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia allowing common public procurement for medicinal products, medical devices and medical equipment. And you won't believe it. I can't believe it myself. The first joint public contract already had around 20% savings. When an invitation to tender for equipment for 7 emergency centres was made on the basis of the technical standards prepared, the price for this equipment was reduced by more than 30 % from the original estimated investment estimate, instead of EUR 8.9 million, EUR 5.6 million was paid for the goods ordered. This is proof that we can, and I hope that we can do even more, much more, that this is just the beginning and that in a year, two or five of us will have better conditions for the functioning of the health system and that we will adopt reforms based on solidarity and honesty, in the good of the community and public health, without egocentricism and our own partial interests. We have repeatedly highlighted the demands of the Government and Parliament to take measures that will be the foundation of zero tolerance for corruption; wherever, not just in health care. This is what the citizens expect from us. People perceive corruption and are very well aware of what corruption means for their way of life, for their well-being. That is why we call on the Social Democrats to work together to find solutions that will result in changes that will reflect the cessation of existing practices that today prevent greater transparency in business relations. We call for the elimination of practices that do not prevent corruption and conflicts of interest, but only strengthen them. Let me remind you that systemic corruption is one of the main causes of the economic, financial and growing moral crisis. We therefore believe that the existence of corruption in the health sector is also facilitated by the blurred borders and the vague and uneven rules between public and private, and that this must be regulated once and for all, continued with the planned changes in public procurement and procurement procedures and made as transparent as possible. This is the only way to change the current situation for the better and stop existing practices that are harmful to all citizens and to us. Moreover, it would not be the timely perception and reaction of the competent authorities which must prosecute such behaviours, regardless of who carries them out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u99	Mr Matjaž Hanžek will present the position of the Joint Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Chairman. Hello, everyone! Ministry! As I follow these many years of political debates on corruption, I recall the fight against bureaucracy 30 or 40 years ago — but I have been in the world for a long time — then the functionalists have constantly moralized how they were against bureaucracy and so red tape has been no less. Moralising corruption every three months will also not eliminate corruption. Above all, it will not help as long as politicians recognise corruption only in others but not in their own. It is interesting that political parties always remember corruption, but which, when they are in opposition when they are in government, they forget it. I will give one example from the explanation: the question is also why the Ministry of Health does not apply its principle of zero tolerance to corruption through public institutions and institutions and why it does not exercise responsibility for overpayments of supplies and medicines. I am also interested in why governments do not take advantage of this and many others. I am surprised, however, that the proponents do not ask their former President of the Government and ministers, so this moralization with the delay is politely said. The recommendation concerns two types of corruption. To corruption in skipping waiting types and corruption in the purchase of medical devices. In the United Left, we claim that preventive action must be taken. Only the possibility of corruption must be prevented. While prosecution is necessary, our practice proves that corruption cannot be eliminated in this way. The work of public doctors in private institutions must be banned if we really want to eliminate the occurrence of species-scraping. As already shown by the KPK report on physicians of amphibians, most of the skipping is lawful. As a general rule, a public-sector doctor will give his patients from a concessional or self-paid infirmary the advantage of being treated in a public institution. This system is legalized for us even by a decision of the Constitutional Court. Today, private doctors can issue a guide for the review in the public system. This has to be banned. Public doctors should work in the public system. The public system must ensure a full basket of rights so that there will be no need for self-payment. We must not subsidise the private sector by public means. Once this is done, we will also support the higher salaries of doctors and health workers. Two measures are envisaged to eliminate the procurement fees. Central procurement must finally be implemented in practice. But of course that's not enough. In the Ljubljana Clinical Centre alone, 60 million orders a year are lower, which is a bypass around public procurement. In addition, the procurement does not help if only one intermediary is applied or the intermediaries deal in a cartel way. We therefore propose the establishment of a public procurement company. A public undertaking would purchase materials directly from producers. We'd put private brokers out there, and all the margins of public companies could go back to the health system. A solution with a state-owned company established abroad, where they are producers, has recently been proposed by the KPK. Since our health objectives and solutions are contrary to the proposal's recommendations, of course we cannot support the recommendation. All I would add, however, is that corruption is known to me, not just corruption in health care, the whole system, the whole country is intertwined, all of it, not only health systems are entwined with corruption, but mainly politics is being talked about all the time, it tells me what special measures I have not seen so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u101	Mr Jernej Vrtovec will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u102	Have a nice day again! Indeed, today's current meeting is based on yesterday's events related to UKC Ljubljana. I wish or hope you've watched as many shows as you can on one of the commercial televisions last night. Two of our colleagues also participated. Madam Secretary of State, have you been watching? [[advertising from the hall]] That's too bad. In October last year, we witnessed the breakdown of one of the corruption octopuses in connection with UKC Ljubljana. The warehousekeeper, who also represented himself as the deputy director of UKC, is expected to play a leading role in the intervention to jump the waiting lines in exchange for money, assuming that it was some EUR 100 or more 10,000, the media mentions EUR 20,000 and so on – he returned to his old job yesterday. The suspension expired and the Director-General of UKC Ljubljana hired him back. He's back. He came back to work. On the other hand, the police found that the officers involved in this story were involved in this octopus — two had broken their employment contract, they had finished their work with the police, and three had received a warning before this cancellation. Why am I saying this? Since we have an institution on the one hand that has reacted and on the other hand we have an institution, this is a public institution, which has not actually reacted as it should have. And what message do we give when we knock on our chests and say: "We fight against corruption. Against corruption in health care.” What message did the Slovenian public receive yesterday when the warehousekeeper reoccupied or again operates in this UKC Ljubljana sector? Now I don't know, it was said that he also had a parking lot and so on. I hope he doesn't have a parking lot, or does he have all the conditions he had before? What message do we give? And if you ask one citizen, it's like this: corruption in health pays off, nothing can happen to you. Nothing can happen to you. And from the moment that the UKC Ljubljana does not communicate, from the moment that media communication is blocked, this uncertainty among people is increasing from this point on. At that time, the government, the minister, or others in the ministry, will take the initiative to give their opinion on this. Because no one will convince me that the Director-General of UKC Ljubljana is not appointed politically and that this government disagreed with this appointment. Of course it is. After all, the UKC Council appointed this government, this government set it up, these people who set up the CEO. And how, then, does the Lord hope not to communicate with the public after all? And to argue why he had to hire this man again. You could get yourself a moral loan if you decided otherwise, the moral loan itself, to be the director for the next 10 years. This is happening again and again in health care, and this treatment, which is before us today, is another type of treatment on health corruption. Unfortunately, we are not making any progress, and I am sad that the recommendations that have been made on the Committee have not been adopted on the Committee itself. In New Slovenia, we generally believe that so far there has been insufficient persecution and, as a result, bad practices at different levels of our health system have become acceptable. Corruption is so rooted in this health system, and if you want, if you want to change anything we want, whatever we do, we're actually facing it. So confronted that we do not have the power of one warehousekeeper to finally forgive – I agree, all in accordance with the legislation, which yesterday a fellow SMC member also spoke at 24 hours in the evening. Thus, various influential individuals and lobbyists regularly visit influential officials, directors and other influential individuals in health care. And nothing happens like nothing happened in the said case of the warehousekeeper and the skipping species. It is therefore essential that the way to fight corruption in health also be changed, as they have so far been very unsuccessful in this fight. The fact is that the risk of corruption in health care also depends on whether someone has a monopoly or not over a given service. That's the way it is everywhere. Many times, when law enforcement authorities discover corruption in health care, we find that the problem lies in the weak control and specificity of our health system. Thus, corruption in health care is unfortunately built into a system that is outdated and thus offers a number of opportunities for exploitation. For the first time, the method of financing and ordering in Slovenian health care already poses certain risks in itself. And despite the knowledge that this is so that we need radical changes and health reform in this direction, there is virtually nothing going on in this area that would put in place better control and eliminate the weak points of the system. Estimates of how much public money from the health system is generated by corruption are different. Although there are no official numbers, every euro that is allocated to the health system and is lost because of corruption is too much, but some doctors also say that there are more than 100 million losses at the expense of corruption. Corruption in health care has divided the most way of corruption, which can be done. Corruption is widely distributed across all social systems and in Slovenia, but in health care it is the most widely shared way of resorting. The money we give through compulsory health insurance, through supplementary health insurance in these common bags, in the first case disappears into the private pockets of individuals, individuals with money that can help our children, with which they can build an emergency room and so on, improve the infrastructure, disappears. And that's the way. Well, we're going to one of the reverberating corruption cases, which is also the subject of a parliamentary investigation, and this is the purchase of vascular resistances that Mark Medical supplied to the patients at a price of 1,300 euros, while the same resistance in Poland cost 460 euros. This was confirmed in 2013 when UKC Ljubljana imported vascular resistors at a price of €471, and according to the Supervisor, the company received more than €81 million from public funds. In this case, virtually no procedure had been initiated to further explain the details of the transaction, nor did anyone respond to the damage. Or is it? Then name the person responsible for the damage. And in one year they received more money in just one institution with modified estimates, which were artificially maintained three to four times higher than in the European market, than they had spent all the Slovenian hospitals together for the vascular support in 2015. As a second example, he could have mentioned the hip prosthetics. How can we pay 800 euros more for an artificial hip than for one of the other hospitals in one hospital with the same ZZS, one insurance company? The overall public procurement, which is supposed to be a response to health corruption, unfortunately does not show the desired effects at least for the time being. The problem is, of course, that the same companies collide and supply medical devices and fully control the market and also public procurement. In our firm belief, public funds through overpayments of medical devices are responsible for the management of hospitals as well as doctors and public procurement services. Public procurement services are primarily responsible, they must be held accountable if there has been a crime of damage to public funds. Finally, the Government and the law enforcement authorities are also responsible. How do I change the system? In Novi Slovenije we presented the starting points. The key question is whether you'd run out of money. Would the money run out, or would overpayments take place for the first time if, for example, one and the only health insurance company in this country, ZZS, were to exercise control? Ask yourself what control the ZZZ is doing in the case of a champagne hospital in case of hip replacement. What kind of surveillance was this ZZ? Secondly, ask yourself whether overpayments would happen if we adopted this European concept of competition between insurance companies, competitions. Why would it be in the interest of a private person competing in the market to make overpayments out of his own pocket? Why? In the case of ZZS, this concept is simple not to exercise control. Because the money comes automatically. And then at the end of the year as it was this year – they were dealing with a 4-million-dollar loss and they said we would not be dealing with the loss, we will carry it back to the next year, a certain fall in obligations, because a few days up or down is not known. And that is, this is the key measure that we should implement, the concept of acceptance in Slovenia, the system of competitiveness, so that insurance companies can control it. Then there would be no overpayments, for no one would be interested in providing funds for overpayments from his own pocket. Above all – and in doing so – that this will continue to happen, I fear that the Ministry's proposal for health reform is speaking. Moreover, if the ZZS now has more than a billion euro of financial resources collected from compulsory health insurance, it will now receive an additional 450 million euros from supplementary health insurance. Who are we gonna give that money to? Someone who has so far been very ill in the business of these funds. See what's going on, and you'll get an answer, whether we don't have a fox in the chicken coop, or if we don't give that fox in the chicken coop to keep them safe. You are simply doing this with a proposal for health reform. In Novi Slovenija we do not agree with this and in this respect we also supported these recommendations on the Committee. However, let us promise that we will continue to talk about corruption in health, respected by the Secretary of State, because it is one of the really vile ways in which individuals take advantage. It is up to you to prevent this by some natural European route. In New Slovenia we propose to accept the concept of competitiveness, not monopolies, because all monopolies lie for corruption, and so in health in the case of ZZS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u103	Mr Bojan Dobovšek will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u104	All those who accompany this meeting are respected! Systemic corruption in health care. Why is she like that? Because the system doesn't work, that's why it's systemic. If the system worked, it wouldn't be systemic corruption. How is systemic corruption going? On three levels. At the lowest level there are corrupt employees and doctors, usually in the form of blue envelopes and these are smaller amounts. On the medium level, the leaders of institutions, corruption is no longer just in the form of money, but rewards, trips, education and the like. And corruption at the highest level, where there are jobs where there are commissions and so on. It's less and less material, and it's getting harder to prove it. And who has power in the country? That's why systemic corruption. The power should be vested in Parliament, which trusts the Government, but we find that power is in Slovenia somewhere in the back without being caught. Those who have power don't want to step forward and show off their assets. How is such systemic corruption taking place? In the first phase, the one with the power shall subordinate the institutions, namely the judiciary, to the legislative branch, which is the National Assembly, and the Government. Of course, then the fourth branch is the media, which can also be subordinated. And that is how the fifth branch of power takes over – informal networks from the background. Stage two. Controlling cash flows, for which it is necessary to establish its staff in banks and its personnel in public procurement. And phase three, when you're subordinated to an institution with a frame. You set up the directors of the institutions, set up the supervisory councils, and then we get to systemic corruption. And this is what is happening in Slovenia, the most problematic example we are currently dealing with is health, because this is where we are most in pain. There are at least three problems in health care. The first problem is waiting species that people feel the most and see the most. And the damage is caused. We are saving the waiting species by investing money, but there is no systemic solution, nor is the proposed legislation offering this. The second is the staffing, the staffing at all levels, especially the heads of institutions. And the third problem is public procurement. Of course, the systemic regulation of public procurement only by having common public procurements will not be resolved, as there is good corruption in common procurement through the creation of monopolies. We need to put in place a system of real people, because we know that when we buy something, we know very well to buy without commission, but when it comes to other money, of course such commissions are. The rapid measures show that the key to the response is the head of the institution. The head of the institution shall take care of the conflict of interest, the competitive clauses of doctors, the conduct of public procurement transparently, the return of the reputation of the institutions, and the care that information, material, good personnel and the like are not leaked from the institution. It is responsible for ensuring the integrity plan and the functioning of institutions. And who kidnapped the country into systemic corruption? The one who appointed the directors of these institutions. What should we do? Such topics need to be opened up, in addition to these measures, we have many hidden forms of corruption in the form of education, in the form of some trips abroad, in the form of establishing monopolies, in the form of expert opinions and other hidden forms of corruption. These forms of corruption are not detected by the police — yes, in exceptional cases, by those who are so bad that they cannot even hide it — but all of this is known in the property of those involved in such activities. And right here is the key to the answer: asset control and tracking to financial flows. The patient must become the center of all events, because the patient is the one for whom we set up the health system, the patient pays through the contributions of the services and it is right that he also receives this service. We need to get the health department back on track, and this is our job, of course, with the help of health care. Most doctors and medical personnel work well and these people should be properly rewarded and commended, but at the same time, they must prepare a set of protections for applicants, whistleblowers, so that doctors and staff can report such incidents, as it is easier to detect such corruption. However, the basis is that we have transparent staffing and transparent law-making, which is not working under this government in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Ms Erika Dekleva will present the position of the Group of Members of the Modern Centre Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u106	Dear President! Secretary of State, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Today, we are all aware that health corruption is a problem that has not been given proper attention in the past governments and has therefore grown in scale, as we can see in the media today, which is also addressed in its recommendation by the drafter of the recommendation. We are also aware that corruption is a phenomenon that we face in all cultures and throughout history in different systems and that an effective prevention system needs to be put in place. And it is obvious that nothing or too little has been done until our mandate in the area of anti-corruption risk prevention has taken place. I think that policy is at least uniform in that any form of corruption is unacceptable, as in particular in health care it directly affects the most vulnerable part of society, the patients. And that is certainly unacceptable. Therefore, a firm approach with clear objectives is needed to ensure a system that will make the health system work in a public and transparent manner and that health services are accessible to all under the same conditions. From here on out, of course, there are different ways to achieve this goal. The proposer of the recommendations, we believe that he is well-intentioned to approach this problem in a way that alerts the Government to take appropriate measures, but does not state individual measures and often does not specify how and against whom the Government should act. It is necessary to be aware of two things. Firstly, that the Government has limited competence within the specified stakeholders, and secondly that the Government is consistently implementing its anti-corruption action programme, and the results of these measures are expected to make a significant contribution to reducing corruption risks in our country. Speaking of limited government responsibility, I would like to clarify that the Government is committed to establishing systemic measures in this area, which it is also doing intensively, even more actively because of the deficit of measures in this area of past governments. As the central institution of the fight against corruption, however, the Commission works to prevent corruption, in individual cases criminal authorities, the judiciary, which as autonomous authorities take over the institution of control over individual cases in which the Government and policy generally have no direct influence. Therefore, the proposal for a recommendation has already been fully rejected at the examination of the parent working body, indicating by the applicant that it does not recognise the basic competences of the state institutions and their tasks. From the very beginning, the way this government operates is aimed at zero tolerance to corruption, which is not just a winged one, as the proposalr insists on showing. A number of measures have been adopted, which will significantly help to prevent corruption in general and in particular in the healthcare system, with consistent implementation in the foreseeable period. In more detail, all the measures have been presented by government representatives, discussed at the Health Committee meeting, and there will certainly be a lot of debate on individual measures today. The Ministry of Health actively intervenes in this mandate in the field of health procurement and procurement processes. The measures are planned and fixed in a timely manner and a new Public Procurement Act has been adopted, which is also expected to make an important contribution to more efficient procurement after a certain period of implementation, and standards for medical devices are being drawn up on the basis of which common public procurement will be prepared. For the most commonly used medical devices, public procurement has already been carried out and it has been shown that this is the right course for responsible public money management to follow the same steps in the field of drug procurement. I would stress, however, that all of these measures are highly expected, in particular from the announced changes to health legislation. For a long time, there have been known solutions to the Health Act, which would allow for fair, transparent and, above all, the same procedure for granting healthcare concessions. In the past week, the public has been informed of the solutions brought by the Health and Health Insurance Act, we are aware of the new Law on Patient Rights, which will define the right to respect for the patient's time, the Government is successfully taking individual financially supported measures to reduce waiting periods and it is difficult to expect a new law on the management and management of health institutions, where a clear definition of the responsibilities of individual actors in the health system will be expected. I sincerely hope that there will be at least as much interest in supporting these targeted solutions in the new health legislation that awaits us in the coming months as it is today when these recommendations are addressed.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u107	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a recommendation. Mrs. Jelka Godec, you have the floor of a candidate, please. Let's get the mags ready. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u108	Thank you very much. With regard to what I have heard in these presentations about the positions of the parliamentary groups, we all agree that corruption is present in the health sector, but as the colleague has said now, we have different views on what are the measures which the government is responsible for and so on. It was said that the Ministry did everything, maximum, of course, to cooperate with all the institutions and so on. Then I ask the Ministry's response to this matter. On 14 November 2016, the Anti-Corruption Commission made observations to the Commission on the prevention of corruption on the question of the high prices of medical devices purchased by hospitals. In her concluding observations, she also raised certain suspicions or wrote: "The fact that public hospitals owned by the Republic of Slovenia pay for the medical devices of global producers more than they pay for hospitals in other European countries of the EU Single Market is unacceptable for the Republic of Slovenia. In this case, the Commission: a hot call for action by the Ministry of Health; forwards its findings to the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office; forwards its findings to the National Assembly; withdraws the matter to the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Competition; submits a statement of suspicion to the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia; and submits a letter to the presentation of the findings and the initiatives submitted at the Commission's headquarters 10. 11. 2016, invite the Ministry of Health, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Public Administration, Public Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia.« The following reads: “Response to the received invitation” to a meeting to present this unacceptable overpayment of material in Slovenia: “The Slovenian Health Insurance Institute, the Public Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices and the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia responded to the invitation. The Ministry of Public Administration is 7 p.m. 11th telephone notice to the Commission that the presentation cannot be attended due to outstanding obligations. The Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Finance did not participate in the presentation of the findings and proposed initiatives.” Now tell me how the Ministry of Health is working with the Commission to prevent corruption, which finds in its multi-party report, at this meeting the Commission would like to present to the Ministry of Health – the Ministry of Health simply ignores the Commission to prevent corruption and their findings and so on. This has also been presented on the committee we have, Parliamentary, in the field of vein support. So the Ministry just doesn't cooperate with them. Now tell me, because you've been discussing that the Ministry has done everything to cooperate with everyone, why the Ministry has not participated in this presentation. Finally, on the basis of all the opinions at hand, and so on, the fact that health activities are, of course, the responsibility of the Ministry of Health and that this ministry should approach all appropriate measures without delay. Please by the Ministry, a secretary who does not listen to me right now, and then she will say that they have done everything — what the ministry has done in this area or why this meeting has not been attended. At the same time, the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, which you have said today, has the competence to identify irregularities, to give initiatives to the Ministry of Health, to do what it should do, and in its long report, to propose the various measures that Members have also received, as follows: "In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 16 of Article 13 of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, the Commission calls on the Ministry of Health to provide an explanation within 30 days of receiving this: how or how it will approach public interest (providing fair competition and economic use of public funds); how it will approach the removal of the detection of corruption risk and ensuring the integrity of the public sector in the implementation of public health services." I would ask the Ministry, given that I have not yet received from the Anti-Corruption Commission the response of the Ministry, to tell you how you have cooperated with the Anti-Corruption Commission and how you have therefore submitted this response report. In fact, this date given to you by the commission has already expired. It's been a month. It has also been highlighted, I think in one presentation of the views that there is also a requirement for training doctors in the purchase of material in hospitals. How, has the ministry ever made a recommendation, a letter, a letter — because this is what the minister likes to write about how to work on purchases of, say, plasma medicines — have you made recommendations to hospitals not to include doctors in public invitations or price conditions? Indeed, in this case, the Anti-Corruption Commission also notes a great deal of corruption. In order to obtain education abroad, doctors agree with the supplier to pay them, let's say, in one case, we also have a principled opinion by the Commission, 5,000 euros in commissions. But then something happens: 5,000 euros for the hospital is not enough and they give 20% more, so that some more hospitals make money. Has the Ministry ever called on hospitals not to include this in prices? Since when a call for medical education is made in the context of the price, it is not determined how high it is. This could be 1 euro, could be 100 euros, could be 1,000 euros, could be 5,000 euros; as much as one doctor agrees. But once again, the hospital didn't have enough, it demanded 20% more. These are all the main opinions of the Commission on the prevention of corruption, which have been made public. I'm not making that up. I can give you letters on the table if you want. That's one thing. The following case, which is also the case in which the Ministry is involved, is: The RS Office for Transfusion Medicine has the Director and the Head of the Economics and Finance Service; they are both employees of the RS Office for Transfusion Medicine, the Director and Head of Economics and Finance; they are also the officials of the Swiss company for certain products in Slovenia, i.e. for certain medicines; they are both representatives of the Council of the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Medicines and Medical Devices and are also in the Professional Council for Blood Supply at the Ministry of Health. So, the two people who are at the Ministry of Blood Supply in the Professional Council are the decision makers, the decision makers at the RS Institute for Transfusion Medicine are also representatives of medicines for foreign, Swiss, company and I asked the Ministry whether they know this is a conflict of interest. And what does the ministry say? The man who is head of economics and finance at the RS Institute for Transfusion Medicine is true that he is in the public agency for medicines and does not mention in his CV that he is also a representative of the Swiss pharmaceutical company in Slovenia. He didn't say that in his resume. And I have a document from a Swiss company in English, where it says, and I can give it to you that he's a representative. Did the ministry, in fact, require this person to say whether or not he is a representative of the Swiss company in Slovenia? Because there is a conflict of interest, Madam Secretary. I wonder if you've done anything here, in this area, because after all, it was kind of my application to you at the Ministry. You're answering that you just looked at the résumé, the man didn't write it. But there is a conflict of interest, because the drug agency has asked a question, because this man is also in the world of the agency, asking him to answer, because there is therefore a conflict of interest. Now you have my public statement, if you want, then no one will say I didn't. I can give you all the information, including this Swiss letter from this company. So, this is one thing that you're also facing, I'm going to say, the ministry is closing your eyes if a man hasn't reported that he's also a representative of a foreign drug company and a public agency for medicines and a professional council at the Ministry. Let's call people again to supplement their own, because you have powers here, you know. This is also what the Commission has written to prevent corruption under the law that you can ask the person to provide you with this information. Well, the question is quite something. How do you cooperate with the Anti-Corruption Commission? By ignoring things, or by simply going to a meeting and presenting their views, because you also say by the coalition that we have authorities that have to respond to such things? But the Ministry is ignoring it. However, I will say, they are signing different pacts for Transparency International, which is now becoming a problem in the area of anti-corruption. So KPK is ignoring, signing a Transparency International pact. That's all right. Now tell me what the relationship is here. What's the relationship? When will the Ministry finally require responsibility, subjectively, objectively, for the management of hospitals, including doctors? When are you going to make or have you already recommended that invitations to tender, the prices of material or services, constructions, whatever they clean up these outlets that don't belong to it? From education to travel and so on. Have you made any recommendations here? Because once again, you can talk to me about these joint public contracts as much as you want, but these joint public contracts do not work in Slovenia and will not be for a while. Why not? Because there are revisions, that's one thing. You don't have any influence on that. These are audits, but they're put in by audit providers. And if we are going to do the public contracts that we are doing in Slovenia now, so suppliers only within Slovenia, the prices as they are in Slovenia, we will not look across the border at all, it will not be any better. We'll still be overpayments. Because once again, as long as you have the supplier of our biggest Slovenian hospital in front of you, and he tells you that he is doing market research by sitting in the office asking suppliers to give him prices, we will not clean it up in Slovenia for so long and there will be corruption, because suppliers go to the suppliers, go to the doctors, and then they become entangled. Doctors receive, as stated in the KPK, EUR 5,000. Yeah, don't look at me funny. Do I read it to you? Can I read it to you, secretary? There's no problem. I'll read you the Commission's 30th opinion. 3. 2015, where it says: At the time of education, it was explained to the Commission staff that the unacceptable conduct of a public institution with which it was originally agreed to donate EUR 5,000 to a doctor, and then the trader received a request, a donation contract where 20% was higher than this requirement. So they talked about it, didn't they? So the doctor, because he wanted education abroad, demanded 5,000 from the supplier, ah demanded, agreed for 5,000 euros and then the hospital for 20% more. These common public orders, so if I stay with a buyer who doesn't look across the border – because at the end of the time when you're buying home, I don't know, a car, any kind of thing, a washing machine, you go to the store and look at it, compare prices and buy from the cheapest provider the same quality, of course, if we're talking about the same things; but not to sit at home and say, well, now give me the prices, then I'll decide. I would ask the Ministry for answers here, given that everything was done. Because the coalition says you did everything. Now I want to know what you've done, if the KPK calls you, but you don't respond, you ignore, you don't come to a meeting, they call you, they give you suggestions, and you ignore them. Have you also given a proposal or instructions to public hospitals on how to run public tenders so that what is not needed will not be included in the price? Above all, it is a matter of questions at the Ministry, because today's parliamentary groups – I say that I do not already know how many times we have talked about this corruption, everyone agrees that corruption is, but that responsibility is not sought, whether subjective or objective or political, none. It is only said that nothing or very little has been done until this government of Mira Cerar in order to end systemic corruption. Now, however, a measure of zero tolerance for corruption has been adopted, a programme for two years that is not working; this is in the response of the Government. Because if you tell me once again that these joint orders work, I will read to you once again the full response of the Government, where it is clearly written that it does not work. So now, suddenly, the zero level of corruption, Dr Cerar even stated: “Now that I am in government, this word no longer exists.” My dear government and everyone, take a look at your staff! If we stay in health care alone, what have you done in health care? It's not true. It's not true. It's not true. They have replaced the board of directors, replaced the directors or appointed new directors who have neither professional nor other references, nor formal or informal, and now you are surprised that there are such losses that they can do whatever they want in hospitals. And calls for proposals are being made in a transparent and non-economic manner. And if you want specific information, I'll even read it out for you. So I'm asking for answers. And once again, not me with gloves and diapers, because these public contracts don't work and it's not a measure. When will you clear up these invitations? When are you gonna stop the suppliers at the hospitals? When are you going to give the hospital instructions: don't let that happen? I know that UKC is great, that UKC Maribor is great, that hospitals are big, but look, I don't know, around the world it works. But we're like a lonely island where anyone can come anytime they want to see any doctor they want. We're told there from different departments that suppliers walk there among patients, that they agree in front of patients about when someone will go somewhere on vacation and which supplier will pay. The Ministry is finally here to make such recommendations. Then at least you can say, look, we told them. And you can't even say that.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar. Let's get the mags ready. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u110	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Since corruption does not only concern the areas of health, but can apply to all areas, it is good to know what the situation of Slovenia is in this area. In fact, according to the corruption perception index, in 1999, when Slovenia was first included in the survey, it was assessed at 10, which means that corruption was virtually impossible to track. As early as 2001, Slovenia was nine cities lower, and over the coming years it continued to rank poorly and reached the bottom in 2013 when it fell to 43rd place among the listed countries. According to the latest data, Slovenia's corruption perception index is 31st. The perception of corruption depends on the economic and social situation of the population and on the increased lack of confidence in democracy, the country and the state institutions. Even after a Eurobarometer survey, Slovenia is above average exposed to corruption risks compared to the entire European Union. This is to a large extent due to the impact of policy on the economy and on business culture. Thus, 50% of respondents from Slovenia considered that corruption was a result of the tight integration of policies and economies, with 37% in the European Union as a whole being asked. However, 39% of respondents considered that business success could only be achieved through links and knowledge. As a whole, 20% were asked in the European Union, i.e. half were less. These perceptions also affect the reputation of Slovenia, the economy and society as a whole and thus also the economic and social development of Slovenia. It is right that corruption is detected, prevented and punished when it exists. It is the responsibility of the Government and Members to prevent systemic corruption and to establish public systems on the basis of which in public social systems we prevent possible conflicts of interest that promote corruption risks. Thus, in hospitals and health care homes, care should be taken to address the corruption risks posed by public procurement, bribery or illicit acceptance of gifts, skipping waiting types, disregarding conflicts of interest and corruption risks in relation to the use of medical devices and prescriptions and the use of medicines. Similarly, ministries and bodies in their composition are exposed to the corruption risks of receiving illicit gifts, corruption in public procurement and corruption in handling procedures. This is particularly true for the financial, economic and infrastructure ministry, as well as for the Ministry of Health and some other ministries. In March 2014, in order to prevent corruption, the Commission drew attention to the corruption risks identified in the Slovenian health system. On the basis of a review and analysis of extensive documentation and data, the Commission concluded that the interconnection of public and private interest in health or the existence of circumstances, when some doctors work in public and private health at the same time, is in itself a significant systemic corruption risk. It also creates increased risks of conflicts of interest. The Commission then recommended to the Ministry of Health that appropriate mechanisms be put in place to prevent such conflicts of interest or serious risks of private interest over public interest. Regrettably, the Ministry of Health of this recommendation to the amendment to the Health Act and to the agreement with FIDES did not take into account the Ministry of Health since it had sheltered the private interests of the medical union. Furthermore, the Commission, in its system-wide principled opinion on health risks, stated that additional work in the public sector of employed doctors who do not obtain legal permits for such work is problematic and even a systemic problem which is not managed. Indeed, the supervision in this area is not at all carried out or is not effective, the Commission noted. In March 2014, the Commission also highlighted the area of waiting lines as an area of high corruption risk which is not adequately managed. Similar reports and findings of the Court of Auditors and the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption in the previous composition have been made known to the public years ago. You may recall, this was a report on the screening of waiting lines at the University Clinical Centre in Ljubljana and Valdoltra. Despite the investigations, it is not known that anything would have happened to any doctor involved in corruption. Although the supervisory authorities have identified frequent infringements of waiting species in public institutions, the system still allows the unpunished skipping of these species for non-health reasons. In order to prevent corruption, the Commission notes once again that public institutions have not detected the risks associated with waiting species and have consequently not addressed them properly. While the ministry has engaged slightly in this work, the corruption risks of skipping waiting species will remain as long as they do not completely distinguish themselves from private health activities. Doctors should decide whether to work in a public health network or only on the outside and concessions should be granted only exceptionally. Since this has not yet been done, and since the Ministry has not proposed this in the proposed amendment to the Health Act, corruption will still be possible if the amendment does not change. It will also be possible to abuse public funds and patients for the greater profits of private doctors, so-called amphibians, in their midday health care companies. A similar conflict of interest introduces profitability into an unprofitable public health system, which usually appears to be in savings, for example in laboratory investigations at the expense of patients who, of course, cannot detect it, which usually goes against the health of people due to late detection of serious diseases. To avoid corruption risks, a more active approach should also be taken to centralising and informing public procurement in public health. Wild privatisation and commercialisation of health and health insurance have damaged the quality, fairness of financing and accessibility of the health system, and thus the majority of the population. The appetites after the privatisation of public health infrastructure show that there is a lot of money in the hands of individuals who would like cheap access to public health homes and hospitals. Among the most dangerous are corruption of the state apparatus and, of course, systemic corruption, where the benefits of elites are adjusted for example by weak legislation, which allows for a range of opportunities for individuals or groups of their own to put their own interests ahead of the interests of the community or the state. The destruction of public health, cultural, social, school and other public infrastructures for the benefit of private interests would in the long term harm the population for accessible and quality public services, which would have long-term negative social consequences. If we look at the proceeds of many of the corruptions found in society and in health care, we can probably agree that prevention cases and court epilogues are negligible. There are too few cases of detection. In order to reduce corruption risks in health care, much more needs to be done than ever before at all levels of the health system. In doing so, the Ministry of Health has the most important role to play. First of all, corruption risks should be addressed in the current proposal for the Amendment to the Health Act, which, by contrast, will be found on the list of insufficient laws that also allow corruption, because of the regulation of concessions in private and not in the public interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin, prepare Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u112	Good day, Messengers and Messengers! On Monday we had TEŠ 6, on Tuesday the rehabilitation of the Slovenian banking system and today corruption in the Slovenian health system. Obviously, these are winter-green topics, which we talk about a lot, and there are some concrete results. And of course all of this again creates a negative climate, dissatisfaction and, of course, an opportunity for all possible new or also old demogogues. And if anything, then it was from this government coalition that it was expected that things would start to be different. We're halfway through the mandate. I'd leave the verdict to the people from here. Why is corruption possible in health care, or why do we talk a lot about these things, but things still happen around us, and these things are quite unpleasant? Things are very complicated, so it's hard to understand them, and if we have a complicated system, then this is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to fish in mud and late opportunity for all those who want to suck on the state budget or the public health treasury and draw as much money out of it. Where do I see the problem? I just made a scheme to at least help me make things clear. We have manufacturers who manufacture medicines, we have wholesalers who buy these products from these manufacturers and then send them to pharmacies and hospitals. It's kind of a scheme that works in our health system. And I have lived all the time in the belief that these wholesalers are the ones who buy drugs in Slovenia for pharmacies and hospitals, the main players in our system who negotiate with these producers for prices, but they taught me, no, they have fixed prices by the ZZZS. The ZZZ is the one that negotiates and determines in some way how much and at what cost the medicine will be paid. This is a large medical bag or a large public health institution. And where do problems arise? Firstly, since we have a large, very rigid healthcare institution, I am convinced that very poor negotiators are about relations with manufacturers, and that perhaps with a slightly different approach we could negotiate different prices. The other thing is the contractors down here, these are hospitals, doctors and all of them, and they determine which medicines are suitable for us. And from manufacturers, as has been mentioned many times today, there are different promoters of such and different medicines that doctors prescribe specific medicines or prefer them a little more, and of course manufacturers strongly reward them. Therefore, I say that in such a system as we have today, it will never be possible to eliminate this corruption. Never. And that this health system of ours will have to change substantially, change the way this health system is financed if we want to end corruption in health. Because otherwise we will be able to keep talking about these matters many times, but of course there will be no results. What would I suggest or suggest in New Slovenia? In order to have more organisations, more insurance companies, more groups that would actually negotiate with producers instead of one of these large public health institutions. And that's because these groups wouldn't work for the loss, but because they would work for the profit, they would squeeze those producers to the maximum. And once they had the price of gardening from producers, corruption risks would be much lower. Of course, they're going to be all over me now, a lot of people in this room, and they're going to say, and Tonin is going to advocate the privatisation of health care. Let me be clear. I'm not defending her. We in New Slovenia advocate public health. I'm underlining. Public health, but a different mode of funding, and this is such a way of financing that where money is to be collected, in those institutions where health money will be collected, these institutions will be interested in providing health goods, medicines, supplies as much as possible or as much as possible. This is the whole point that we want to tell the people we want to tell Slovenia that we simply cannot achieve these goals with one of the harshly large health institutions or with the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia. And the sooner we admit it, the easier we're going to get this health system fixed. Because I am sure that Slovenia is still a very wealthy country, that our citizens will die because of a poor health organisation. I also conclude with what the left side of this hall sells very often as a solution, if this will save our health system, and they say, "Common orders, we go on joint orders as soon as possible." That sounds great, and the point is that a higher volume of orders also means a lower price for these orders. That is true, but if the one who negotiates, the one who orders, negotiates poorly with the suppliers and does not squeeze them, then it is clear that the joint orders do nothing to help us. Especially if suppliers or manufacturers of these medicines pay someone something else to lessen and tire them out in these matters. Another thing that will regulate our health system and also reduce corruption risks: if those who pay for health care are to say, if the institution in which we give money for our health benefits, in fact those who provide health services, namely, hospitals, will require quality services. If I finish, of course the world goes on and we go along with it, and certainly is informing one of the things that would move a lot of things forward; from reducing corruption, from optimising all the procedures is already quite a few examples of good practice in Slovenia if I start with a pediatric clinic, and if these things start moving into the whole system, then of course it would be for the better. [[…]] As I said, the winter theme, and we all probably want the results to come eventually.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor. Get Mr. Marijan Pojbič ready. Here you go, Mr. Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Vice President. True, we are in the winter darkness, which we keep on the agenda. You know who'll take care of it. But, of course, I will say the following at this point – there is nothing wrong with talking about it, far from it. On the contrary, I also always say that it is right to talk about corruption, the more we talk about it, the more people are aware of it, but you know, to talk through it in the same place every time, and to find out that what is proposed makes no sense, or to talk about some of the recommendations, of course, doesn't make any sense. To say that the problem is only in public procurement, and the problem of talking about systemic corruption is that I personally have a very big problem. The big problem is because I'm sure when someone says systemic corruption, either at one end of the hall or on the other or on the third, everyone probably imagines for themselves what it really is. And if we went to look at the definition of systemic corruption – and here it would be very nice to have the proponent at the outset clear up when he talks about it, because I was very careful who uses the word systemic corruption, who talks about corruption. I have to say, we have a serious problem. The types of corruption: we have little corruption, we have medium corruption, we have big corruption, we have administrative corruption, we have systemic corruption, we have political corruption, we have institutional corruption and we have legislative corruption, we have conflicts of interest, we have nepotism, we have chronicism, we have clientism, we have country capture. Of course, the last one is the most terrifying. The problem arises primarily because we then give the impression that it is really a condition or a process that simply cannot be fixed anymore or that everything needs to be put back into place. And this is a fantastic time and space. I'm sorry my friend Tonin got out, because they all went out, by the way. On such an important topic of corruption, I look at the proposalers all day, and basically there are only two members sitting here and there. I've seen you, don't worry. Otherwise, they're not actually there at all, and they're proposing. However, colleague Tonin spoke about the fact that now he finally understood where the problem is in the procurement of medicines, or why it is a problem, and so on. He said everything nicely, but only one thing he forgot to say or he didn't want to say: even the health department can't deal with itself, I will say, with those who produce, prices because we are a reference market and prices are set in a clear range. Therefore, prices in Slovenia cannot be the same as, say, Serbia or even lower. Who put us on this reference market or the reference price that we are essentially in this context, I would rather ask myself years ago when the position was being placed, but sometimes the second time, because we're going to go another way. But I agree. Look, in this National Assembly, we have recently adopted the Act on Pharmacy Activities, where we said that only foreigners and private people on our soil can supply medicines to our pharmacies. Catastrophe! I've made that very clear, and I'm going to say again that this is a mistake. But now we're going to see this over the years how it's going to happen. Especially because of our littleness, it is very dangerous. But okay, that's just the problem, because we all know who insisted the most. The private pharmacy or reading the pharmacy chamber has helped the most to make it through its own, I will say, those who have insisted that this change must happen have achieved that this has now happened. Now we have a problem. Another thing that seems important to me, of course, if we tell what really needs to be done, legislation needs to be amended. Legislation needs to be changed in the direction in which it is, of course, being prepared. I hope and believe that you will be so loud and, above all, actively involved in the debate when these laws will be held in the national assembly. Now the field of this public debate process is also beginning, and I believe that we can all come to some common results in a constructive way, both the opposition and the coalition, and not least draw the line. Of course, there is one problem. Problem is, we're gonna have to deal with the concepts, and that's what Tonin is talking about. He'd like to have more insurance in place of one health insurance company. If anyone thinks it reduces corruption, you're wrong, because then we have to change everything, the whole system. The model needs to be changed. Of course, we have a problem here because we're talking about two different concepts. But because today is the topic of corruption – do you think that corruption occurs in only one part? No, no, no. And if I come from a basic model, we have a problem that corruption always occurs in all situations. And corruption is not Slovenia's problem. Corruption is a problem for all countries. Of course in different ways and depending on the level of risk they have. As we have talked a lot today about public procurement, especially joint orders, to warn you, we have adopted a new, completely new law on public procurement, the so-called ZJN-3, which has not really been implemented yet, or has not really started to apply it in the sense that we could in some way analyse what this new law has actually done or what the effects of this new law are. If I am not mistaken, and if I have the right information, you have found on the committee that in fact a very rare hospital in Slovenia has already begun to work, you have made some kind of call after this new ZJN-3. You're going to fix me, colleague Godec, but no matter what you might say this marriage sucks, it's absolutely too early. To say that public contracts have common risks and that they are bad is, of course, in some way – at least those who know and carry out joint orders and have the practice of doing so say very clear principles. It is in the fight against corruption that common public procurement can be very effective. It is true, however, that all security mechanisms must be put in place, because joint public procurement cannot be carried out by one or two or three, but it simply works by an army of people, where there is always some kind of control over one another. In addition, let me warn you, just a little while ago, a few months ago, one longer interview came in one of the media with the President of the Court of Auditors who says the following, and this very clearly states, quote: “I understand all the concerns, including that the general public procurement can lead to the monopoly of some manufacturers on the market. However, this must not be an argument to give up joint orders. The fact that collective public procurement is harmful has never been proved. This is claimed by those who only know public procurement in theory.” Indeed, it is necessary to know that even those involved in corruption today do not really comply with the common public procurements because they are increasingly difficult to negotiate and talk and use all of their steps that they once used. In fact, hospitals are known to have chosen the procurement method instead of public procurement for a number of years, which means the fragmentation of public contracts, and to procure small ones, which is what you all know has actually happened in the past. Now, of course, everyone is bragging and saying that they've already gone on joint orders and that they've already made some moves, but, like famous theorists say, when you create one problem and create it for so many years, you'll never be done in one year. But you can only do it systematically with some serious controls and controls. But another thought and thought is needed. Is it true that all responsibility must be solely for the Director of Public Institutions? Absolutely not. And you have to start taking responsibility to lower levels. We have ourselves identified and noted, from what is available to us from the transmissions, when we are looking at a vein support investigator, that in fact they also have levels under the director, a purely creative way of looking at how an order is executed. I am convinced that those walks of various walkers who walked through clinics and offered various materials and medicines are getting smaller and smaller because they were simply – at least I remember – 20 years ago this was a stop, the head of the department practically withdrew to his office after 10 a.m. and walked one and the other representatives of different companies through this office, that was there around 95. It's practically not happening today. Yet, there are still some different ways to negotiate and pressure. Some were also mentioned by Mrs Godec, but now, of course, that is the key question, how much is that? How much is it that we can say that it is literally systemic corruption? One of the famous Slovenian doctors used some numbers in millions a few years ago, though I don't know where he got these numbers, based on what was first 200, then there were 300, and finally we had almost 400 million to carry out corruption. I don't believe in these numbers myself, but even if it's a smaller number, it's a terrible number to understand that there will be no misunderstanding. But certainly not, because if we say that we have 2.5 billion money in circulation in the health register, and if it's 400 million of it, then the system can't work anymore, because it just can't go through. Is corruption in health care? Yes, it is. And there's somewhere else, not just in health care. Is it systemic corruption? Um, I'd doubt it here. What do the KPK reports say? I personally tell you today that the way it works today, I no longer have confidence in this system. Something will have to change, and I can't wait to adopt a new law on KPK to upgrade everything that KPK is really missing. Let me tell you, and I'm trying to finish. What seems important to me today. Eventually today, when we are discussing this, two contributions were published, and then I went to look at Transparency International Slovenia. Two articles saying: Slovenia's corruption perception index shows better. That's what the Evening and the Work have published. Of course, these data were absolutely insufficient. Well, there is a complete application, or methodology, of how this research was carried out or how it was conducted, and the situation in Slovenia, as far as corruption is concerned, has definitely improved since last year. But he's talking about corruption in the public sector. It says completely, we are not talking about the economy and everyone else. Can we be content with this? We can be pleased that things have not deteriorated. But we are not satisfied that it is not significantly better. But that means it's a process that's going on. It's not something that can happen overnight. We've improved, we've grown four places, we've gained one point, it's 61 points. If we compare, we are essentially above average, we are approaching the top half of those countries where there is less corruption than others. But corruption is, and that's the problem. The fact is that corruption can be removed at at least three levels. One is that first, the one who lays down the rules of the game in the country clears his mind about this corruption. I'll just give you one case on which I'm personally a little disappointed. In fact, those who today talk most about corruption do not agree with the fact – Transparency International also speaks very clearly about this, even at the press conference, said that MEPs in the National Assembly do not accept the ethical code for themselves and then expect ethical conduct from all others in the public sector. It just doesn't work. And so, of course, they expect us to clear up our own lives. And until the Members, no government, of course, will not complete the summit, those who are decision makers in the country will clear up these matters, of course we can act and expect that this matter will also be carried down. Of course, that's easy to say, but it's not easy to do because we all know how politics works. Each political branch has its own view and its own conviction of what is right and what is wrong. What kind of work is done to make some kind of political calculation, who better to come through? You just have to admit it out loud. That's how politics works. In the end, let me finish with the next one. I must personally say that I have high expectations. In particular, changing the role of the medical treasury into an active buyer — a significant intervention and control and control over what is actually happening in health institutions or in the healthcare system as a whole. And second, with the right legislation, is when you get to know the people who are theirs, in this case the patients' rights, and when you raise that level of awareness, of course, you're once again affecting the reduction of corruption within the system. But it is something that is still sad to find that when someone does a corrupt act, it is for individuals, some who are not corrupt, who know that, but do not say that. And it just becomes like a kind of public secret, everybody knows something's going on, and nobody's ready to reveal it. In short, we are still among those countries that do not have this automatic self-reflection to simply reject such acts with disgust. And this, of course, is a process. It's about cultural mentality. We've lived under another story for many years, where it was something in itself contemplative. So this seems to me to be one of the key problems when we're actually talking about corruption. Finally, corruption is also, of course, a problem in how much we talk about it and in what way. If we talk only superficially and generally about it, then we add one example, saying: “Look, because you see that corruption is,” but it is individual cases, then it happens to be a complete lack of trust in the institution and the whole system. Today, today, one of the colleagues here in his presentation of the Group's position began with a case of a clinical centre or yesterday's broadcast of 24 hours in the evening. I don't know which of us Members knows what and how it went in this predictive process. Nobody. We all know only what we know from the media. But we are ready to just turn everything into some claims, and if so, then we have to worry that things are going on in this country under laws that are adopted and are socially standardised for all citizens and citizens, with all rights. That is why today I do not personally hope to judge what has really happened and what has not happened. But I know something, and I am sure that the directors of the institutions here must act very clearly and very directly and without any hiding places. That is why, of course, I also expect the UKC Director to make very clear what he intends to do in this area and to take appropriate measures. Otherwise, I'm gonna start thinking seriously that this isn't the right director. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Ms. Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u116	Thank you. Gotta go, me. My friend Jani has to go. I have to replicate some things for him, but not in the sense that he's wrong. One thing I have to say is that we don't agree, he has his own views. I'd start there, why don't certain people say that there's corruption going on, even though they know it. Let us ask what happens to these people in Slovenia when they report corruption. Let me ask you why they don't report her. Because, as Dr. Robid said on one of the committees, the government in Slovenia is a culture of fear, because when you report corruption, you are degraded in the workplace, you are excluded, you are not protected as an applicant under all internal acts and laws, etc. There's a problem. They don't report because they're afraid. Then, I don't know, you get lucky on the road or send you an e-mail, this is what happened, let me explore this, please don't tell me my name, and so on. It's about doctors. It's also about employees who work in purchasing services and so on. Here we have to ask ourselves why this is not, because there is still so much fear in people that they do not report it, and then they use us or we are somehow intermediaries to expose these matters. As far as the numbers are concerned. Here I agree that we can't just talk about corruption, how many millions, but look, the investigator's last good show, and here are the exact numbers or numbers that we pulled from what UKC Ljubljana gave us. And there, from the invitation to tender, which was signed with the contract and with the annexes signed by the Director, and we compared European prices, where – to say that we did not invent these European prices, we obtained them from exactly the data sent to us by UKC Ljubljana – it was found that from 2010 to 2014, public funds were damaged, so if we bought vascular cords at European prices, for 2 million 400. So these are specific numbers. It's not like it's on average out there right now, that's what it is. These are specific numbers, also shown on the screen, also faced at the hearings. So, 2 million 400 in 4 years, not in full 4 years, from October to May, from October 2010 to May 2014. Therefore, there can be a case of calculation of the amount of damage to public funds, if only in one single public tender there has been so much damage. And look, the business director of the clinic is clear on the question of whether we overpaid the ventricles, he said. He didn't come around, he said yes. But why do we have them, of course, we will continue to discover that. So, about replicating Jani. Then the legislation has to be amended. The investigator has no idea what the impact of the new Public Procurement Act, three, ZJN-3 is. No, because we are working until the date 2016, when this law was not even in the procedure, and we cannot find out. But look, we had the Public Procurement Act two. And it says exactly when it comes to orders, registration orders, that's by order, when they've ordered low values, and when are those orders going to the European public procurement portal. But look, if we have this in the law that the limit is 20,000 net, that can be purchased on orders, and the hospital directors and customers don't respect it, then you can't say that marriage is bad. The law says up to 20,000 on orders. Now let's let it crush. Let's drop it. But it does. No, they're going through. Then it says in the internal acts: from 20,000 to 40,000 orders of small value, there must be a publication on the Public Procurement Portal. No, they don't. And you say it's a bad marriage. It's in the law. But if the director, former director of UKC Ljubljana, says to one committee a year ago: “Look, the law allows us to do this” is not true! It's in the law. And if the director goes through and no one reacts, yes, my dear, then where are we? What country are we in to allow this? That's the joke, too. Don't say the law's bad. This is what the law says, and public institutions must abide by this law. I also worked on public contracts, otherwise in a small public office, but I went No option of breaking the law because the law does not allow me to do so. [[…]] But if those customers are acting that way, if "the law is what bothers me, I need it" and then we say this to patients. [[…]] That's what the law says. If it says we drive on the right, we drive on the right. You can't drive on your left. You can't drive on your left. You can't drive on your left. And then if one bumps in because he's driving on his left, he'll say, yes, the marriage is bad. No! No! The law states and – and I agree here – directors are responsible, objectively, if not otherwise. However, subjective responsibility should also be assessed at a lower level. Those who allowed such a public invitation to tender to make such purchases, who signed such orders, knew that they were already going through. Don't talk and it's not a problem – yes, we can have multiple models and there will be corruption in each model – the problem is not in the models. The problem is in people's minds, in mentality. Responsibility. Never before in Slovenia has anyone been responsible for this because it acted corruptly, for example, in the area of health, which is the most sensitive. Because that 2 million 400, as I said, in four years, and not four years old, was overpaid. Two million 400. My dears, this is for patients, not for private pockets. For the patients. And here, too, from this point of view, how many patients could be provided for this 2 million 400. Ask yourself that. Then they say the marriage is bad. No! No! There are precise boundaries in the law, but these limits have not been respected and these limits are not respected today. Why don't they respect each other? Then we get to this corrupt act pretty quick. We can get to that very quickly. It's a small market. Look, yeah, one part maybe yes, but the excuse for a small market Look, we have a private small clinic that purchases less material than UKC Ljubljana has lower prices than UKC Ljubljana. [[…]] And that is why no one will say that a small market, a small purchase, is so powerful. Why don't we say, I don't know, prices of certain materials in Slovenia can be only 10% or 15% above prices in Europe? No, we're not gonna say that. Not that! And excuses, I do not know that we are a reference market – yes, because that is probably why such prices are being held back. So I think that in the area of corruption, for the first time, it doesn't apply because the government is still a culture of fear, because people are afraid to report names and surnames specifically, because then these people are being bullied, they're being degraded in jobs, I don't know what's happening to them. That's one problem. The second problem is that the law allows precise restrictions on public procurement, but people do not. Buyers, not directors, not those who signed orders. Well, that's just one excuse. And the ministry, once again, was told today that the KPK is losing its reputation. I don't care if you lose your reputation because you're giving Transparency International now so much weight, obviously something's going on here again. But the KPK is still an institution that gives its opinions, principled opinions, and the Ministry of Health is ignoring this. You still haven't answered me if you've attended this meeting where they've given you recommendations on how to do these things or not. Why? Why didn't you go to the meeting? Suspects of corruption have been identified, and the Ministry is ignoring it. Why? Because KPK is a toothless tiger or something because it doesn't matter anymore. It's Transparency International now. We've got it everywhere. This Transparency International said it was the most corrupt national council, my dears. That we are Members of Parliament most corrupt. Do you know how many of them have to be bribed to get one marriage? 46. Raise your hand, who got the envelopes or whatever. That's what Transparency International found out. The most corrupt is the National Assembly. I mean, tell me, come on. But 46 votes are always there. It's up to you. So you're being bribed. [[advertising from the hall]] Or not, because it doesn't matter, they both have to bribe you for 46 votes. Look at all the pumpkins we're going to. Or you're going. KPK is irrelevant, ignored by the Ministry, they are incompetent, Transparency International is capable. Now they're all over the place explaining it. These are the people who founded Transparency International; Klemenčič, Kos and this group. So, something's going on. Ministry, please respond. Have you instructed public institutions to exclude education from prices? Did you order public authorities, directors, buyers to respect the Public Procurement Act, whatever it is? And don't tell me it's bad, because marriage is what it is, and it has to be respected. And there's no excuse he's bad. And what about co-operation with the KPK? Simple questions. It's okay. It won't hurt if you answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u117	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask Mrs. Secretary over there if they can drop a tone. A word? Here you go, Mrs. Nina Pirnat. The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u118	Thank you very much. There were a few questions. As for the first report on the KPK. Therefore, we did not attend the presentation meeting because we asked the Commission for a special meeting, as Mr Štefanec made clear to the Health Committee, and we also made a written recommendation to the Commission to prevent corruption. Second thing. With regard to the conflict of interest of the participation of a member of the RS Office for Transfusion Medicine as a representative, the representative of the Swiss company with the power to regulate the world of the JAZMP. The JAZMP Council considered this – and also considered the function of the board of the institution as the body of supervision and the management body – to respond to a conflict of interest, but in the meantime two things happened. The mandate of Mr ZTM in the world of the JAZMP institution has expired in one way or another, and the new members of the Board of the Institute have been appointed, as well as the mandate of one of the members who I will not present here by name, by the Swiss company representing in the regulatory process has been withdrawn. I would also like to say this about prices and price comparisons in Europe. An interview with Dr. Michael Binder, who is head of management at the Vienna Hospital Association, was published, and it made it clear that the prices of medicines for the confidentiality of the negotiations within the association do not reveal. This means that data from abroad is so easy to access. And it was published on the 31st. 12. 2016 in Del. Education in public procurement has never, of course, been included, but we have given the directors clear instructions on how to proceed in public procurement so that all procurement procedures must be strictly followed. So, very briefly.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mrs. Jelka Godec, proposer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u120	Very briefly. Not us paint, secretary! Don't paint us with interviews like that if the prices of drugs don't come out. Journalists have discovered the price of drugs. Have we seen the same shows? Have we looked? How did the press come to the price? The director of the Finnish clinic said prices, publicly, for vascular support, for example. And then you and those in front of the investigator say, "We don't know the prices." Who are you all painting together? Look, Madam Secretary, that's not true. The press has come to a price. Journalists! They went there, they asked. Yeah, of course, if you're sitting at home in an office, you can't find out. Because you can't just call the director of one clinic and say, "Listen, I'm the one. Would you give me the prices?" No, these are certain matters, certain procedures, but there is a price to be paid, Madam Secretary. On our committee were told by the presidents of the clinic or the professionals at the clinics, yes, we had prices, Portugal, Germany, Poland, Serbia, we knew about the lower prices. And they didn't do anything. And now you're talking to me from an interview with a doctor. I believe that's what the interview says, but there are prices, Madam Secretary. They're meeting. They do, but not if you're sitting on Stefan or any other 3, but if you go and ask a few questions and you contact people and the suppliers and the other hospitals. To get to know each other. Yeah. Because once again, the press has shown that if you want to, if not otherwise, doctors in UKC Ljubljana have also shown that you can get it. Now here's the deal. If there are no foreign prices to be obtained, Madam Secretary, then how is it possible? Then let's come to Slovenia and close our borders nice and look at the hospitals between us. Why is the hospital in Celje overpaid, for the same material – the same, comparable, if you want the same – more paid than Ljubljana? Or Maribor more than Ljubljana? Don't you two just talk about each other? Don't you have professional worlds? Don't you have a working group at the Ministry where doctors meet, where not only doctors, I won't be them, I won't be others? Don't you two talk about this?Oh, my God! I'm saying again, if I'm buying a washing machine, I'm gonna call my colleague, and listen to how much you put in there, and I'm there. But hospitals don't talk. Millions through the door into private pockets. Don't do anything stupid. Don't tell me you can't get the price. They're getting to you, and they're proving it to you now. And it's sad to see the press prove it. You should be the one to prove that prices can be won, but there's no will.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr Marijan Pojbič has the floor to prepare Mrs Vesna Vervega. Here you go, Mr. Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u122	Dear Mr. Vice President! Just one more piece, one sentence I say to what my colleague Jelka has just said about the prices, that they can't be obtained. Whether there is this option as discussed by colleague Godec, or whether there is another option that prices were not to be obtained, so that the system could function as it has worked so far. And this thought of mine is much closer to the truth than any other. Believe me. However, I cannot simply believe that we have such a justice system in our society, together with the police, that it is not paying enough attention to what is happening in our society in this area. Enough arguments, enough such and other information, those that are 100% accurate, and those that are hidden in the background. She received them and could take appropriate measures if she worked in the interest of our Slovenian society, its future and its compliance with the legislation. She's got everything in her hands. And the corruption we are talking about today is so clear that there is no way that the relevant authorities responsible in our country cannot find those who are doing this. We have a very big problem when we're looking at Target what we're looking at. But thank God that is the result of the Target, the Target was not the Target that happened itself, this is the result of the investigation committee of the National Assembly on Health Corruption led by Jelka Godec. This is the basis for the journalists to wake up because they had to do something. And not that I would. There are probably quite a few who want to, but there are also many who lead — that is, those who are editors — who prevent it. And as a result of the investigation commission of the National Assembly, this is also the target. And I'm very happy about that, I call it. Thank God that somewhere we are once the first in the National Assembly to be responsible in one way or another. That we have started a bicycle that must be accepted and that must respond in certain matters in a proper, legal, or legal way. I hope now that these things are slowly developing in this direction. I am grateful to all those Members and Members of the National Assembly who voted in favour of this Commission, and also to Jelka Godec, who is leading it well, and of course to all those journalists and journalists who have begun to explore this issue more consistently on this basis. Now, of course, I expect those authorities, who are responsible, to lead their story to what is expected of them. But I was very disappointed when I saw you in Tarcha, and that's what I said earlier when we met Furlan's last name. And it's amazing when we listened to the head of the specialized prosecutor who said, "I don't know anything about this." And his family, and practically all family members, are connected to the story. And he said, "I don't know anything about it." Then the question arises to me whether he was put there to protect this bastard, or whether it really is a coincidence. It's gonna be very hard for me to believe that. And I don't think most citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia can be convinced because when you were watching Tarča, you saw everything. You too, Members of Parliament and Members, regardless of which party you are from, have been able to generate your own opinion. I mean, if we have this kind of functioning of our society in the most crucial positions, then we have to say that we are in a Mafia country. A country that is no longer normal, where things are unacceptable when the story is intertwined through and through and see, a chain connected wherever you look. That's not normal. A simple man can die alive. Not to mention all the consequences of that poor little nation that pays for all this shit. That's amazing. And we don't think about it and do nothing about it. We in the opposition do, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, but we also want to encourage all those who raise your hand at this moment and can decide to make a difference in this area. Your Honor, a gentleman wrote to me and I will read what he wrote to me here. He wrote to me: “I have worked for many years in health care as a health technician, because of the pigs that have happened, I have given up, and now I work as a sole entrepreneur in another business, but I see...” I apologize for the very small letters, “and I see that the ovulators are still voluptuous. The changes are urgent, the penalties for theft are mandatory, and the uncles in the background are still in charge and in charge. Until when? I share your disappointment. I hope I do not bore you with my writing, but it seems to me that all Members should listen to the voice of the people. I wish you all the best." So people are watching what's going on. People are watching what's going on, and people know what's going on. We just don't want to see it here. And we always say that we're not sure that it's possible that this is probably not what we're talking about here, and so on and so forth. And I will now – I apologize for going over the phone a little bit, because I think there is one very important thing that I will read here in a few sentences. Let's get some things straight and some things clear. The Lord, whom I tell him is a great gentleman, although not a Slovenian working in Croatia, wrote: “I dropped out of the hospital lobbyists and saved millions. It is important to me that our hospital has the best materials for the lowest price." The real Branko Shastan, head of the orthopedic clinic from Lovran. This is the only health facility in Croatia that works positively. Among other things, he said — I will not read what he said — where the key problem is. [[advertising from the hall]] It is the technical characteristics of the invitation to tender. It hides all the details that are crucial to allow corruption to be carried out through these calls. And that lady who just said, "we read these articles," let her keep it to herself. Let him behave in Parliament and not jump into words. Because if she can't say three sentences in Parliament or ten words five times in three years, then I'll tell her, with my attempts to throw me off the track, I'll tell her very much. It would be right if we did not have such letters in the National Assembly because it is a shame to have them. Really. Now, look, before I go on with this pile of paper, I'm just going to say what I see is the key issue in preparing the calls. We have a key problem in preparing calls, and I cannot understand that in the institutions, directors and their interlocutors and those who are procurement managers do not have a clear picture of how and on what basis they are in those positions and how they should work. I have now spoken to certain people because I have been on this committee for some time now, and they have told me that contractors are talking and negotiating with contracting authorities how to prepare a call for a particular company to get a job. And that's what happens in the health system. That's the key problem. Clients and contractors are discussing how to prepare a call to be written on someone’s skin. And the Ministry doesn't see anything here. What are you blind or something?Oh, my God! No organ in this country sees anything! But they didn't. After we started talking about corruption in our country, and when we found that there are almost 200 billion disappearances in the health system. We should wake up the police, the prosecution, all these authorities and those people who are in key positions in individual large health care institutions and clinical centres that are procurement managers, start monitoring how they get together, where they get together, why they meet and so on. And the problem would be relatively quickly settled. Relatively fast. When someone from there meets in Ljubljana, the head of this and so many and so many times why, but if the Ministry of Health says that no institution knows about another thing, what's going on? [[…]] They don't know any prices or anything. How is this possible for me to be told by ordinary people?Oh, my God! They say: “Where do you live? Where do you live, by God?!" And my fellow Members and Members, I have not been fortunate enough to prove it, and there is always a problem with us because you cannot prove it. They say, "You can't prove it," but those words I said here, I said them with purpose. This means that all the bodies that are paid good for it at this time must react immediately, immediately establish a system to find out what is happening in this area within the entire Slovenian system, the subsystem, and will come to important results very quickly. I'm sure this speech of mine is now being watched by these people. Of course, they are now heartbroken: “Oh, now someone has woken up, but now we will have to do our work more carefully or even if we hope.” That's enough. That's a lot, that's a lot to take in. But when the contractor and the contracting authority agree and jointly prepare an invitation to receive it to the gentleman, whoever it is, here in this House or certainly not – I say in my quotations that no one would understand it now – you understand, then something is wrong with this society. Then we can make gold legislation. Like Jelka's colleague said, we're not gonna change anything. With gold legislation, we will not change anything unless we bring those who do so to responsibility and therefore properly punish them and give them a little look at their property. Now, look, if I'm a member of the National Assembly, you know how much I've earned. He knows how much I've earned. They can come to see me, they can examine all my relatives, and they'll see how much property they have, and eventually they'll figure out the origin of the property, and there'll be no problem. But when someone has 60, 70,000 euros or 600 or 500 euros, or I don't know how many Euros a ship, he was a public official, and he says, "I don't have to explain it to anyone." Where were the organs at the time he was acquiring this property? Where? My dears, where? Let's ask ourselves where. And if this gentleman I read about earlier made a story and told me where the key to success is to make hospitals do business positively, then we have nothing to think about here today and to argue with each other who is right. We're all right if we want to solve the problem. Everybody. It doesn't matter which customer it's from. But we all have to say, the games are over, call on the authorities responsible in this society to act properly, and immediately. Here, from this debate in the National Assembly, they hear enough true words that can lead them to take action. But most of all, it seems to me that the Ministry is acting as if nothing can happen, as if it were all See, they have no data, not the third or nothing, but in fact I am sure that most things know, and at the Ministry there are certainly co-workers who make up the chain that this system or subsystem works as it works. [[...]] And it has to be cut in every way. For free, we would certainly not have such papers here in Parliament that all people can see. What does it say, Slovenians, go crazy! Corruption consumes us 4 billion euros a year: “Courts of EUR 4 billion a year, that is a tenth of gross social product or the sum of the value of all shares”, and so on and so on. That's what the Finances wrote. I'm sure the Finances didn't just write that for fun. Surely no one would have hoped to write that, my dear colleagues and colleagues. If this is not an alarming enough question to alert you in the Slovenian Democratic Party to these pigs, then let me now be the devil. Look, part two, again, Finance. Look what they wrote. They wrote, Corruption and fraud, channels for money outflows from health care: “Hospitals pretend that corruption is not, the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia is a moment, but with not very tangible effects, the government dreams of reform.” Look at that. Look at you, colleagues and colleagues. And don't say that we are a nuisance in the Slovenian Democratic Party, because this government and this coalition are alerted to such a problematic situation as the situation in our health. Dear colleagues and colleagues, look, Council24, I've already talked about this today, look at the Supreme, pictures of what's written here. I'm not going to read all your articles right now because it's too much. After Slovenia, she rounded up 10 pages of the long anonymous UKC Ljubljana business. I think you've all read it, and there you can figure out what's actually going on in practice. Nothing. Not even the one responsible for this as the supervisory authority that should require clear management responsibility — none of this. To this point, I have not received any information that would make it clear that these people who are listed here and in those anonymities are listed, whether they are not guilty or not guilty. One is when we get information that the situation is what it is, and the other is when an appropriate body, as I know, went to this institution or clinical center, but we don't know any results. We don't know if anything happened or not. What I read earlier about what was going on with the jobs, with that janitor or the economy or whatever, and so on and with that skipping of those pay classes and so on Here we have one Mrs. Valentinič, whom you all know well. [[…]] She's supposed to be holding everything in her hands with the Supreme and his team. Why don't we try and get these people out of here? Last time I told you, I'm calling on the government, I'm calling on this board to oversee the functioning of the administration, to put these people in another job, to cut off their connections and see if there's anything or nothing in it. And that's how we come to conclusions. So is Finance. See: Worse materials in the construction of a new E.R. I'm not gonna read what it says. You all know this story. Then Finance again, Urgent assistance for Kolarjevo: Five new officials, each for a fifth working time. Look at this! Do you read this, or do you even know what this is about? At the hospital they did a series of homework, Dnevnik. See, read this: Is corruption in UKC Ljubljana a problem? The new director of the digger doesn't comment, he doesn't know things. Do you know what that means? Can you read that? And when I looked at what happened on the investigative committee, I said today that I was ashamed to be a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, that such people held such positions. And that's when I told you what the problem was. I don't want to go on. Because my colleagues certainly want to discuss it, I think I should end up here somewhere. However, I call on the coalition, the government and all the authorities responsible for this and the well-paid, the judicial authorities, the police, the prosecution to investigate once, or to set the trap for this criminal mob. To set the loop and get them hand-to-hand in marmalade. And then it will no longer be the case that the contracting authorities, together with the contractors, are preparing an invitation to tender written on the skin of an individual company. Then it can't happen again. And only then will you see how right Marian Pojbič was when he spoke about it in the National Assembly. Maybe in two or three years, something will come to the public that will be connected to what I have been saying in the National Assembly today. All those here who think it is to laugh, to have fun in such important subjects is more important than what I say, there is no place for you to sit here in the National Assembly. And that's what you're going to experience at the next state election. And that's what I want for you. And I call upon the people of Slovenia to do so. It intersects with those who come here for pay, and gives those who go for Slovenia an opportunity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Procedurally, please, Mrs. Janja Slug.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u124	Thank you very much. I mean, Vice President, you can warn my colleague Pojbich that, of course, it's none of his business, how many times I'm in the National Assembly and how many sentences I say. For this, there is now a tool called Parlameter, where you can see exactly what someone is talking about and how many times they come to. And thank God you can see exactly how someone behaves on camera. Actually, my colleague asked me to behave better. I think he's the last person in this room who can ask other colleagues to behave better, and that's what you see on camera. However, my procedural proposal is as follows. Since colleagues from the SDS are always so consistent in citing resources, when referred to by the coalition Members, I have therefore warned my colleague Pojbič that even when he is reading certain things, he should state resources consistently. He said his colleague had written to him. This article was published in the media and we all read it. And that was my warning, and please, President, to warn him of that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u125	Mr. Pojbich, please, you have the floor. What's that, a replica? Procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u126	Mr Vice-President, I would just like to remind you that Mrs Servant, because of what I have said here in Parliament, it is not necessary to be so pale. Because when you tell the truth about a man, then you have a problem with a man and it happens just like she's been aggressively against me right now. I didn't say anything aggressive. I have spoken very properly, very honestly and really is Parliament What is that story already? [[...]] Parlameter. People will see what someone in this national assembly has been saying, and more importantly, no, what he has been saying is important, whether he is saying what he is holding and what is right. And not what someone writes to him, some party secretary. No one's writing speeches to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u127	There was no procedural proposal. Mrs. Janja Sluga, is it necessary? Here's the procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u128	Thank you very much. President, I'd like to ask you to instruct my colleague Pojbič that my last name is a woman's sex, and he's hiding behind a woman's shelter. It is said that it has the same shape in all directions and is called Mrs Slug, Mrs Slug and not Mrs Slug. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u129	Okay, now with this Slovenian, journalists have problems, so good. Good. It's Mrs. Vesna Vervega's turn. Get Mr. Joseph Horvat ready. Here you go, Mrs. Vervega.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will somehow continue with the substantive debate and perhaps with some comments on what has been said so far in this debate. The fact is that, in dealing with irregularities in the procurement of vein support in some health establishments, we have found that the greatest corruption risks are in the execution of public contracts. How can these risks be reduced? One important way to reduce these risks is by law. We have already heard that the new Public Procurement Act, ZJN-3, which entered into force on 1 April 2016, brings some news, especially in terms of stricter rules. I had not previously understood that Mr Möderndorfer had said that the Public Procurement Act 2 was wrong or that somehow it was not in this context or appropriate or that these measures were not in line with the Public Procurement Act 2 as well. But given how great corruption is in the implementation of these public contracts, I think and I hope that the JJN-3 will help reduce these risks. And I'm going to give you one concrete case. One of the important measures brought about by this new law is that when there are substantial changes to the original contract, a new procurement procedure is required. Because it was in this investigation or in the commission of inquiry that we found that the procedure was not repeated, but only the annexes to the contracts were signed. And this was where there was a greater possibility of a corrupt act. Then the next thing we heard or heard about earlier. That for a few things they have responsibility for the management of procurement services and the management of public institutions. However, it is certainly possible to comment and comment on the technical specifications with the ZJN-3 provider, thereby significantly reducing the possibility of writing to a particular tenderer on the skin. Thus, fine orders and orders for certain special types of medical devices can be avoided. What we have also found within this investigation is that some of the value of the total contracts exceeded or reached the value of public contracts. As the central institution of the fight against corruption in Slovenia, of course, the Commission is working to prevent corruption, which as an autonomous body exercises control over individual cases. We have already heard that the amendment of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption has been publicised, and I hope that this novel will give the Commission a little more authority and enable powers and also a little more credibility. Nevertheless, in order to prevent corruption, the Commission has, of course, considered a complaint of suspicion due mainly to higher prices of vein support in Slovenia than abroad. Finally, the conclusions stated that there are no indications that there is a violation of the provisions of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption in the field of the implementation of public contracts, but that, for example, funding for the training of doctors is required in the tender documentation. This means that actual legislation or tender documentation has also made this possible. I agree with those recommendations, or I agree with what Mrs Godec said earlier, or these recommendations, which the Commission really has to prevent. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u131	I'd ask nicely, on the left and on the right, there's quite a bit of grumbling. Mrs. Vervega, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u132	You know, corruption really did. Among other things, I will mention some of them, such as the recommendation to take the necessary measures to enable Slovenian hospitals to purchase medical devices at lower purchase prices. Then the following recommendation: it is necessary to amend the tender documentation accordingly and, of course, I agree with that, to establish a register of medical devices that would allow for more transparent procurement of these devices. These are also recommendations made by the KPK in dealing with this suspicion. Of course, the law enforcement authorities are also on the move. The Anti-Corruption Commission has submitted, announced the suspicion of corruption at the NPU, the Special Prosecutor's Office is considering this. I certainly agree at this point that matters must be dealt with and brought to a conclusion. Finally, I would like to highlight just two more things. I cannot agree with the claim that corruption is growing during this government. I'd rather say it's coming out. Because the biggest irregularities occurred or occurred by 2013, at least in the case of purchases of medical devices we can say. The other thing is that the simple claim that the Government and the Ministry of Health have done nothing so far – I can't accept that either. The most important lever the Government or the Ministry of Health has is, of course, legislation. The amended and stricter legislation, the facts show that some things have already been done here. Of course, as we have already heard, there are still many things to be done and, in fact, all acts of corruption still need to be revealed and announced. This is a very important step that helps to bring things to an end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor to prepare Mrs Irena Grošelj Kosnik. Here you go, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I don't have much time to deal with the state of the spirit in this country, the valley of Shentflorian for corruption. Corruption has a powerful influence on the state of the spirit. And I'm going to put up an axiom, an axiom, which is that corruption and conflict go hand in hand. Corruption and conflict go hand in hand. What do I mean? People, our citizens, our taxpayers, are warning us of corruption. You know, I'm scared, I'm afraid he's gonna make someone a movie someday. That's why this axiom is that corruption and conflict go hand in hand. I previously listened attentively to the SMC Member, who says, but now the index of global corruption puts us in just one good position, namely, Slovenia. This index has measured corruption in 168 countries. We're really in 35th place, first is Denmark, but I'm not interested in Burkina Faso, but say North Korea, I'm interested in European countries. Where are we? 16 countries within the EU – 28 within the EU – are better than us, 11 are worse than us. I'm not satisfied with that result. We've reached 60 points out of 100 possible. And also because of this scale, on 29 November 2013, the then KPK Senate resigned. He wrote a very interesting suicide note. As it is said, it was signed by Mr Goran Klemenčič, Mr Rok Praprotnik and Mrs Liljana Selinšek. Here I will not read you, I do not have enough time, look, dear colleagues and colleagues, the recipe has been written by Mr Goran Klemenčič, how to eliminate corruption in health care that is systemic. The recipe was written. I agree with my colleague Verveg with II. Maribor High School that legislation needs to be adapted. Goran Klemenčič says here, not only, it is not necessarily legislation, but also government measures that are not legislative to eliminate the environment that generates corruption. But we all know it takes will and readiness. If you're not in the government and the ruling coalition, then I'll say one day that I suspect you're in. Excuse me. We, Nova Slovenija, exactly two months ago have submitted a request for an urgent meeting of the Health Committee entitled Corruption and non-economic behaviour of public institutions in the procurement of medicines and medical devices. You have not adopted our conclusions, but I was pleased – because I defended our positions on the Health Committee at the time – that a decision has been adopted, namely: the Health Committee proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, to prepare comprehensive measures to prevent corruption. Unfortunately at the time, I failed to reach the time component, but in about a week's time, I'm going to ask the government where the comprehensive measures are. I'm really expecting them. Or maybe you are. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mrs. Irena Grošelj Košnik has the floor to prepare the mag. Bojana Mursich. Here you go, Mrs. Grošelj Kosnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u136	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Respectable all present, colleagues and colleagues! Corruption began to grow in the 1990s; also in other countries, not only in Slovenia. It was also launched in other areas, in energy, in construction, in the area of financial services, in large state-owned companies, not only in health care. Since 1990, high-financial and social intermediaries have focused mainly on the looting of taxpayers' money and thus on health money, mainly by means of cutting margins in the intervention of medical devices, and are, of course, caught up in this money. This, of course, has an indirect impact on health services, i.e. waiting years and also on their quality. Of course, we are all very sensitive in this area, because we are all potential patients. Unfortunately, in such a long period, this practice has not received adequate rapid and effective response and feedback that this is unacceptable and unacceptable. The response should be followed by management in the form of organisation, control and staffing, in particular in the procurement area. Even all types of government, many of which have been large in this 20-year period, have not exactly had effective measures, as we now see. We know that in 7 years, until 2014, eight ministers have been exchanged. That says a lot. In fact, there has been no long-term serious planning and systemic action since 2000. Now, somehow, the proposer, I have an impression, expects the Minister to be able to deal with all these massive corruption problems within two and a half years. At that time, there were no adequate responses from law enforcement authorities. If responses to corruption are untimely, milky and do not have a judicial epilogue, such practices exist and also become a mentality that is acceptable, and the warmth in the public, that nothing can be done and we are prisoners of these predatory elites. Slovenia, as we have already heard, is on the Transparency International page 31st after corruption in the public sector and the matter has improved slightly, but this is not a sign that we can be satisfied or that we should not try to continue the flow of health money. The government has already told itself what it has done in these two and a half years, and I say that the Government can only be relatively responsible for the situation as it is in those two-and-a-half years, which is certainly not bad. The amended public contracts under the new law, which will produce results, eThe order also intervened in the regulation of waiting types, and a particularly important information system is what I think is called this price monitoring portal, which is my opinion that it would be good to find leverage to also get prices abroad and, of course, standards for medical devices. It is also important, I think, a novel amendment to the law on the functioning of the anti-corruption commission. This phenomenon will be indirectly affected by all the health reform legislation we now have in the National Assembly. And if we can say nothing to that – I think that this is nothing at all, but certainly the work must continue intensively in all areas with this view that the level of corruption also needs to be tackled with all the measures that come under our hands in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u137	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Bojana Muršič, get Mr. Tomaž Lisec ready. Here you go, Mrs. Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u138	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. As I have already said and stressed in my position, there are no magic formulas to eliminate systemic corruption. That is why I think it is so important that we all approach with all seriousness and commitment to eliminating this corruption. All the deviations we track, each individual, must be reported to or announced by the relevant institutions and, of course, the solutions are key. I must point out that there are sad stories that talk about cases where individuals, because of too long waiting periods, simply do not come into line and eventually those tragic stories happen and their lives are extinguished. Why? Because of the fact that the wealthier people came first, we just can't afford it. We provide and advocate public health, which must be accessible to all under equal conditions, irrespective of their social standard. How do you solve corruption? As I said at the outset, there is no unique answer. Although I have observed in one record that one of the doctors said that corruption in health care is as much as in all other areas, I believe that in the field of health, as well as elsewhere, this is particularly unacceptable. In the field of health care in particular, because the behavior of doctors raises fear as doctors deal with our health and life, the response to such practices is unacceptable and must be completely sanctioned. As we have also found on the Commission of Inquiry, the most corruption occurs in the area of the purchase of medical material and the purchase of medicines, i.e. where the public and private sectors meet. With regard to the reasons why it is coming, I will not negate and expose here, because I believe that on the commission of inquiry we will do everything we can to find the culprits who are responsible for such misdemeanours and the outflow of our public money, which could also shorten the waiting periods. That is to say, all the factors must be addressed in order to disclose, detect and resolve the actual cases of corruption. And those responsible must also be responsible for their actions. This is also followed by the 1st item we have discussed, recommendations regarding the functioning of public health institutions, where management can play their part. It is certainly unacceptable for sales promoters to voluntarily move around hospitals, and management does not do anything at this point because when sales promoters come in contact with doctors or other health or non-health personnel, corruption occurs. In the beginning, my colleague Vrtovec also told us where these misbehavior behaviours took place in the UKC. And that's really unacceptable. It is also possible to prevent the awareness of patients, and the right organisation of work must be adapted and moral and ethical rules raised. In general, I can say that in Slovenian health, we need to strengthen the fight against corruption strategy and advocate raising moral and ethical standards. And it is also crucial that we start talking publicly about corruption and report it, because that is the only way we are going to move forward. However, it is also on the part of the law enforcement authorities to approach these problems without delay and immediately and with all commitment, and to look for those who really do not do what is right. The largest debt in the fight against corruption can, of course, be provided by the Ministry of Health by regulating a better health system, clearly distinguishing both public and private, setting clear limits, which have so far been wiped out, and seeking personal responsibility. Here I would like to point out that if the directors of public health institutions and hospitals, too, were to respond with their assets for the corrupt acts that are taking place in their institution, believe me, that many would think carefully about whether they would run for such a job. However, the key is to extend the waiting period by draining money in health care, and these will not be reduced until it happens that individual doctors and other healthcare professionals have this opportunity to take advantage of it and take some side-by-side routes. Sometimes it may also be justified, but doctors are the ones who need to clearly define in the guide what is urgent, what is fast and what is regular. And I think we can do a lot of things here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Lisec has the floor to prepare Mr Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u140	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Ministry, all together one nice greeting! This government, especially the modern center’s Party, then called itself, repeated one and the same footnotes during the pre-election period. On one side of ethics and morality, and this is supposed to result in transparency and a rate of corruption and clientism. What's the fact after two and a half years? From ethics and morality, there is only a part of the name of the largest government party, but if we just look at health, clientism and, above all, corruption are on the rise. In short, one is the words, in particular the representatives of the largest coalition party, and the opposite is the actions. And in the SDS Group, we do not claim that nothing has been done in these two and a half years. He was here and there a step. But also this kind of step has been too often in the wrong direction. We find out almost every week, mainly by those media interested in the resolution of the Slovenian health system, a new affair. On the other hand, we are listening — at least as mentioned today by the Government and the largest government party — to have a decisive approach, a public and transparent approach is needed, and other authorities are also restricting the powers of the Government. Dear SMC, in particular, two and a half years you have all the scissors and canvas on you. You may refer here to two older parliamentary parties such as SD and Desus, who are in the coalition, but let's see what Mr Gantar said by Desus: "In two and a half years, almost nothing has happened." The performance of the SD Member: "It must be taken seriously to work", which in fact means that the SD is already preparing for early elections and is not aware that it is part of the coalition. On the other hand, Members of the Modern Centre Party are telling us that we do not know the issues, we do not know who is responsible and so on, and what happened earlier that said to our colleague Tonin, we have a story this week, and we always find ourselves avoiding responsibility by government representatives. And I am very much in favour of colleague Jelko Godec and her investigative committee, so that at least some political responsibility will be found in this national assembly. But what do I personally expect and all the people I meet in my office or on the street? Who's ever gonna answer criminally. We also have laws in that area of criminal law, but what happens? Nothing. At his old age, Mr. Zemlarič still dictates the pace and the system of the Slovenian health system. Instead of such people who walk around with suitcases and with various papers at Slovenian hospitals, through various institutions and go to corruption in the procurement of medicines, services and equipment, when they are taken away not by ambulance, but by police stamp to take away someone's property, whom they shut down, nothing happens. And once again, this is happening under a government that talked about ethics, morality and the rule of law. But it's happening, and I'll say it again, corruption. Every week we find out what is wrong with Slovenian hospitals, how something in the system is not working. But, distinguished representatives of the coalition, you have the opportunity you've been given in the elections, but you can't take advantage of it. In words, you are still acting in this sense: we are fighting corruption, we are for transparency. But the numbers know almost exactly the opposite. Never so much corruption and clienteleism. For example, I recall that mandate 2004-2008 as well as 2012 when Janez Janša was in power or then a coalition party. From every record after the government meeting, the press looked at what first? Human resources. And even if someone's term expired in some institution, this time I speak in the field of health, the media called out, "The government has resolved." They almost never wrote: his mandate expired; the government, as responsible for determining individual carriers, appointed its own. No, no, no. The government has resolved. Pompous articles by individuals, especially left - handed media, that dealt solely with whom John Janša’s government replaced. What now? No, no, no, no. Then we get an answer to a question from the Member States, and we see that no government so far, and I say that for the mandates in which I am in the National Assembly, it has not been so brutal in the field of corruption and, above all, clientism, including in the field of health. You betray anyone who doesn't smell you. You're even more brutal than the SMC. An example from Posavje. The President of Brežice General Hospital was a gentleman from Desus. Great sir, very good, and SMC betrayed him, even though Desus was in the government at the time and now in the government. And I'm not going to say what's going on at the employment institutions and social work centres, I'm really going to limit myself to health care. Wherever you have a chance, you are radiating everything, because there is only one thing going on in your head, how to survive the next parliamentary elections. If not already in the government coalition, at least partly in Parliament, but mainly with the majority in the councils of public institutions and all other organisations, agencies, administrations, and I do not know where you have the minimum capacity to operate. Once again, you have won the paradigm by an ethical and moral party or government, but you are doing quite differently. The vein resistance is only one of the moments at which we have alerted the proposers. As we said, every week we're surprised by a new affair. UKC Ljubljana – a similar story. I say that UKC Ljubljana is an ATM such as NLB in the field of finance. They happen, I'll hope to say, perverse things to the detriment of people. In the media, we're hearing about waiting times, about how you could save thousands of people a year, but what happens to Slovenian health care? The privileged are rich, and those who are part of the problem even want to solve this problem, all of which are ultimately paid by taxpayers with various so-called reforms of this government, which on the one hand only mean an increase in the rates of contribution for citizens, and here you go, especially those who are citing to some liberal doctrine that you are in the ALDE, the European Liberal Party, a step back towards socialism. We've been talking about socialism for the past ten years, but we're going to socialism. Even in the field of health. I don't have a problem with those who have more to pay. But these steps that you're predicting are going in the direction of those models that come from one of the former countries that we belong to and where we've all come to realize that this system is not good. Only the draft laws that the media are writing about are like that movie Return to the Past. The same thing happens under this government. There's a lot of talk about waiting types, problems, high drug prices, other equipment and so on, but nothing. Your Honor, you've been here for two and a half years. And yes, you can say our client here and there, for example, or someone else from any previous government, even Alenko Bratušek, but now is your time. You wanted him, have him. And do not challenge us as the opposition, for we warn that we are doing wrong. And what is wrong, and I will conclude with this if the SDS Group proposes that the Government and the Ministry of Health be recommended to take the necessary measures to thoroughly reorganise health procurement processes immediately? And you say, it's already happening, we have new information, we have public procurement, where we see that it's actually just a shift from one corrupt act to another corrupt act. Then, of course, here at the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Public Administration is the one that is central to information and public procurement. Instead of stealing from Janez Novak before, he's stealing from someone, I don't know, Franz Znidaršič, or whatever it's called. They used to be each other, but now they're specifically yours. And you're defending this transparently and so on. We propose to present an analysis of the effects of the joint public procurement measure in health care, and the coalition is against it. But in the words of the strong: “We fight corruption and customerism.” But do not support such a decision. Where would your head be sore, where would your shoe be? Nowhere. You can't even get enough support to say, "Here, an all-Slovenian example of a solution, let's all step together." No, no, no. We propose to recommend that the Government – recommends, does not enter the basement and beat them up – but recommends to the Government – that it call on the competent institutions to take immediate and decisive action to determine the responsibility of individuals in corruption. If you're doing this, then why don't you support such conclusions? Yeah, sure, but now most of yours are set up because the cops would be hunting yours. It's a real problem, yeah. And then finally, to present the necessary legal changes that will allow transparent public procurement. Here I will end, in the way of those – Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc will present every month to the press just as soon as it is not a new reform, and the second sentence has already struck a Slovenian patient in the pocket, and most dangerously, even after taking care of health. Such health care, respected and respected, is not worth Slovenia in 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u141	Thank you very much. I hope you have proof of everything you said. That's how you talked about specific names. We wouldn't have any sense that this National Assembly is accepting your thesis. Mr. Franz Breznik has the word to prepare Dr. Ange Logar. Here you go, Mr. Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u142	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your last words were whether he had evidence from a colleague named Lisec. Look, whatever it is, you're thinking straight, you don't have to have big evidence. Get in the car, drive to Portorož to the marina, take a look at the first boat from 10 meters forward, these are so-called 30-feet, then you go to Umag, from Umag you travel to Istria and Dalmatia and see yachts, sailing boats and also car owners, with what kind of cars are coming to these yachts. Then look, one Mr. former Minister of Health, the poor pensioner, never had anything to do with the health system, he says. How can it support a 12 to 14 meter yacht? Do you have any idea how many attachments there are and everything? Why isn't that being investigated? We have institutions, why should the National Assembly or the parliamentary group here today discuss recommendations on systemic corruption? Because all the birds are already sucking on our branches that something doesn't count that some company that has a mailbox and two employees renting an office for 200 euros out there on the periphery supplies something, we can say, one health system or a large hospital called a university clinical center or in Maribor or Ljubljana, something that costs millions of euros. Now tell me why this hospital doesn't cooperate directly with the contractor. This is not a serious matter, we can say someone who has some serious representation for some health care, with some serious capital, including some technical knowledge, where, on the one hand, this representative is also a technical consultant in hospitals, but it is a typical so-called mammals or mammals or parasites, as they say. This is not about classic agents we know in other industries or industries. This is what we are talking about today, and today we cannot condemn the SMC, because it did not come about in this mandate, but it is the result of something that is still possible even from the previous system. But I can warn you because, for the first time, you have a large majority, you have won the elections because of your words about persecuting corruption, not least of all, and we ask you, please, that the matter is really alarming, that on the one hand is running out of money in the healthcare system for those who need care. As we often say, we collect stoppers for the operation of children abroad, on the other hand – about what no respected colleagues ever talk about – but there are terrible acts when we have a whole series of relatives, fathers, mothers, grandparents, brothers and sisters who sometimes come to the doctor and say, “Where did you go before?” Unfortunately, cancer is in stage two, stage three, and this man most often dies. Most of the time, as far as I know the stories with my late father, relatives, acquaintances, it was that man did not decide to go when he saw some problems with himself, in his body, because he knew that he would stand in some sort of line to stand there and wait months and months for some serious examination or serious systematic examination. Because of these waiting types — no problem of waiting species, waiting or delaying some orthopedic operations — many of these waiting types are also responsible for the fact that many people have not decided to visit a doctor immediately. And when that was, we can say, worse when he felt some worse pain, worse consequences, but most of the time that visit was in a relatively late stage of a disease, and most of the time it developed into, we can say, some disability, and many times to death. We should also talk about how many people we have essentially buried because of waiting types and corruption. This is also a problem of corruption. Today, look, when this money runs out, we need to be more careful. The system, which somehow consumes more than €3 billion, I repeat, 2.6 billion about has a health insurance company plus additional insurance of about 600 million, I am talking about 3.2 billion of the money spent, and of these 3.2 billion, we find that aspirin costs two to three times less in neighbouring countries. Yesterday I went to see, I think some cure at a pharmacy in Maribor costs 8.49 euros, I looked. So this is the base of paracetamol and some new packaging was with some black labels, and that's 8.49 euros. [[…]] This is an abnormal, respected colleague and colleague. That's an insane price. And today we are talking about reference prices that we are not in this system like Macedonia and everything else. Look, this is typical bureaucratic thinking. Of course we can make a deal. In some cases, as we once had at the Ministry of Defence, we can say, centralised purchasing business, and in other systems, what colleague Godcheva has already tried to present today. I believe, my fellow Members, that the theme of the system, where more than €3 billion are addressed, is the topic that should be the top topic today, where the national assembly should be fully gathered and where we can only seriously talk, which sentences or paragraphs should be put in these recommendations and where there must be some common basis for all of us in here. Most people watching us say, “Why can’t you make a deal?” Look, are we partners today, or are we accusing you of all your fault? No, no, no. But see, as long as we collect stoppers on one side and on the other hand, colleagues will ride in yachts, by having a company with one employee or with no employees, as says colleague Jelka Godec, see here is the relevant story. Anyone who looks seriously only at the marinas or at the motor parks of these people needs to know that this is not in line with the company. And this, look, this is what we should be talking about, and I see there's no interest. In fact, your case is clear to you. When I listen to the Secretary of State, to her arguments and to her arguments, I see that these health economies or that they have not adopted this concept, that the biggest problem is bureaucracy at the Ministry of Health. The biggest problem right now is, I seriously believe, on a health insurance company that they don't have all the scissors and canvas in their hands because they can't because they pay literally every price. Literally, the director of a health insurance company with a team is someone who's basically like an accountant in some private espionage who has a owner who says, "Pay this bill don't care what you pay." At each insurance company, when you have a helmet, the insurance company wants to know where you fixed it, what was the price of the headlamp, the bouncer, what was the price of the windshield, whether it was original or not, what was the lyrical clock, what was the mechanical clock and so on. This is about cars, and this is about human health. It is the health and life of the people and the population. And he doesn't get that, he gets some account to pay, he doesn't even get the specifications. In this system there is no brake, in some system this balance should be set, so control over control. Here's the problem. There's this systemic corruption where I see it. And the systemic corruption that I see for myself can finally be said, the topic that is the top topic, the respected colleagues and colleagues, and is the topic that I'm giving you today and where I'm opening your eyes. We take your eyes away from you to step together with some common forces into this systemic corruption and to find the causes — and of course the consequences we already know — and to find the reasons. And we have given you the reasons for this recommendation, with respect for colleagues and colleagues, which is the subject of point 15 of the Recommendation on Systemic Corruption in Health. These are the points that we are making available to you today and where we can reach some common consensus. Therefore, I am also asking you to listen to us in some way and to confirm this recommendation in the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u143	Dr. Ange Logar has the word. Prepare Mr Franz Jurša and Mr Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u144	Thank you, President. I have 30 seconds at my disposal. All I can say is that I find it completely incomprehensible that the ruling coalition has rejected the Committee's decision to adopt the proposed conclusions, that it is essentially continuing to push its head into the sand and that unfortunately under this government this is happening in all areas. In the area of banking law enforcement, in the field of prosecution of health crime, in the field of justice, in the field of media censorship, in short, in all those pressing topics that we each have every day [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u145	Mr Franc Jurša has the floor, but they should be prepared for the conclusion part by the representative of the Government and the representative of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u146	President, thank you for your word. Nice greetings to my friends and friends! I would start on the occasion somehow by saying that corruption in health is the second most frequently spoken word in this House, in addition to the most frequently spoken bank hole. I say that it is right to talk about this so often that I am more concerned that we do nothing in this area. But, look, this story has been happening in Slovenia for as long as it is and as long as our country is old. That's another question. So almost none of us can get out of here to say so, but our government did something then and then. Governments have done little in this area, but what is their power and ability and ability is another thing. Some other segments of this society, which have a very important function, have been involved in this story since the prosecution and so on, and all of them should do something together. With Mr Lisco's thoughts, I strongly agree or agree with him when he spoke of the fact that the Minister has been dismissed through the Ministry by members of the boards of institutions. You know, it wasn't an emergency that we were supposed to take. I was also my own time at some level, another, local, functionary, where I could suggest that certain members of the worlds in the local community be relieved because they didn't have the color I had, or hearts on the side I had, and I can honestly tell you, I didn't do it. And even in this case, I would propose to anyone who thinks that way not to do so. Democratic decision-making must also be in institutions and this thinking must be colored as much as possible, and the conclusions are better. We cannot say that at least something has not begun to happen in this area. The first issue is to resolve the issue of joint procurement. This could, of course, lead to the conclusion that the lack of transparency of health procurement is one of the main reasons for health corruption. We're talking about waiting lines, yes, it's also easy, and to a large extent it's a corrupt operation, but the biggest problem, I think, is precisely in public procurement. The President of the Court of Auditors estimates that the problem of all unnecessary overpayments will not be solved by itself, he has blown away all intermediaries and those who indirectly attach themselves to getting the big money that goes around in health care. The Ministry of Public Administration and the Ministry of Health have made a total of 5 orders; at the moment, I have no data on whether this matter has been completed, and I know that these orders amounted to around €45 million. The problem was complaints. A large number of tenders received, from 14 to 19, were sent to a different public tender, and if this task were to be faster glass and by interfering with the laws governing these matters, corruption would of course be significantly easier to prevent. At the end of 2016, or at the latest at the beginning of the year in which we are now, it is said that a new year, such a system should also require infusion and transfusion systems and respiratory therapy material and, in 2017, intervention cardiology and intervention radiology material. The President of the Court of Auditors, of course, also had his proposals and comments on some of these matters, including the reasons for overpayment and corruption. He listed several factors, including doctors, absence of standards, a small market, mutual non-cooperation of hospitals, the excessive influence of physicians who run individual departments and required the materials that were supplied to certain suppliers for these departments. The reasons why they did so may, however, quickly give us some impetus to the potential for corruption in the background. This is a very interesting matter that we had the opportunity and opportunity to watch last November 18th in Tarča, where it was said that overpaid medical products distributed around €215 million annually. And, of course, they said that because they proved that at that point they had to actually take action by law enforcement authorities. If the law enforcement authorities had done this task the way we want it to, of course, there would have been successful results. At that point, it also occurs that individuals start to threaten the minister in dealing with this issue and in some ways want to prevent pressure from exerting enough influence on these acts to ensure that matters can be resolved successfully. Two years ago, the disclosure of the competition agency's affair between the two companies, which – the Supreme Court has also attached – has all the leverage to decide on the penalty against the largest drug dealer, has not yet concluded the infringement proceedings. The hospital’s management, doctors, and public procurement services are responsible for the diversion of public funds through overpayments of medical devices. And if these responsibilities are not required of them, then we can count on continuing to do so this year, that is to say, we will continue in this term. And, of course, if things don't work out, we can get this done, so far it's 25 years, and then it's 25 years. Patients, patients, because all that is lost in health care is the first thing that patients will feel the most about their own skin. And, of course, the satisfaction of citizens and citizens will never be the same as it would be if this money were re-analysed and saved by the kind of money that comes from health care.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u147	We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which we will give the floor to a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer. First, the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, Mrs Nina Pirnat, has the floor. He doesn't want a word. Then the representative of the proposer, Mrs Jelka Godec, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u148	Now that's interesting that the government doesn't speak. Although the government has spent three, four minutes, and now it doesn't even speak in a closing speech. I can also imagine things by somehow protecting these corrupt actions in health care and in fact not having anything to say at this point. We have therefore proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party certain recommendations to be implemented by the Government. It is therefore a matter of proposing to the Ministry of Health and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia immediately to take the necessary measures to reorganise the procurement process in health. In the previous position, the ministry said they had done everything from the beginning. Everything. What does that mean for the government, all of it? Is it the fact that they have called for joint public orders to deceive people with this — so the minister says — to save 20% in the first year? I cannot agree here, Madam Secretary. You have now had the opportunity to explain this once again, but once again, if I read to you the Government's response to these joint public procurements, it is that "common public procurements were established at the beginning of 2015 and 2016, none of the joint procurement procedures have been completed". So you can't say you saved 20%. In answer to my question, the Minister explicitly writes that it was in the first year – see, this answers me 5. 1. 2017, not long ago: “In addition, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Public Administration prepared a joint public call for medicines, saving about 20% of the money in the first year.” I mean, that's the ministry's response, but at the same time, that was 5. 1. 2017, 22. 12. In 2016, the Ministry responds that the general public procurement has not yet been completed. So how can you say that you saved 20% that everything was done? Yes, if public procurement is not completed; and you have also told one of the committees that they are not. You tell me otherwise, I read your papers. Let us coordinate at the Ministry and say: “Yes, public procurement is under way. They are not completed because there are audits and so on.” And that you will save by calculation, probably if these joint public procurements are to be completed, and that this is the measure that you have implemented in this case – that is, in our first recommendation to thoroughly reorganize the procurement process in health – but not to have all the common public procurements. So, for all things, there will be no public contracts, not for a while. And here no, it won't. [[…]] 2017 You will start with a common public procurement for the stents you said, say, in the context of certain other cases. So, 2017, so we can expect somewhere in 2019, but things may go through common public procurement. Then it's the next thing. To present an analysis of the effects of joint public procurement. Would it be good to make an analysis and then really see who is right now, or do you or the proponent who says which document of yours holds the answer regarding the common public procurement that you have saved or not? [[…]] The next recommendation to the Government or the Ministry of Health is to call on the competent institutions to take immediate and decisive action to identify the responsibility of individuals in acts of corruption. The government answers, as well as the coalition defends the view that the Ministry does not have this authority. We call on the Government, and in the government, all ministries – justice, internal and so forth, under which, of course, the National Investigation Office, the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office and other authorities could act if the President of the Government were determined and would say, "Now let us do something." However, it is not that the NPU processes have been going on for two years, three years, that these authorities, too, do not want to cooperate with parliamentary investigative commissions in the National Assembly to hide reports, to hide documentation and so on. Why? Look, the NPU and the U.S. Attorney General are under the government. If the government is so committed to reducing corruption, why does it not say to these institutions "see, let us participate"? Now you're going to say, "Yes, we don't have the authority to do that." But the competences are for NPUs and SDTs to sit together and jointly decide, “No, we will not give documentation”? Can this happen? The President of the Government could say: “Institutions should cooperate with the National Assembly, cooperate with each other and approach these matters as quickly as possible or as a matter of priority.” Because, once again, no one has been responsible for corruption in Slovenia until today. Nobody. And since you have previously been responsible for this gentleman from the RS Office for Transfusion Medicine, that he is no longer at the drug agency, I wonder if he is still in the expert council of the Ministry of Health in the field of medicines. Of course it is. This gentleman is still in conflict of interest, even if he is no longer in the public drug agency. Because there was a conflict of interest, so, for a while there was a conflict of interest. Were there any sanctions because the gentleman in his CV did not state that he was a representative of the Swiss company? Was he punished for lying in his resume? Because this was answered by the Government that he did not indicate in his CV that he is a representative of the Swiss company for the sale of medicines in Slovenia. Here I have this document from a Swiss company that ensures that this gentleman is a representative. Not him, but both the director and the head of the economy at this institution for transfusion medicine. Have you taken any action at the Ministry? Will you ask him to correct his resume now? So he lied. You're telling me he's not at the agency anymore, and now everything's fine. But for a while there was a conflict of interest. This is my question, and today's implementation is the Ministry's call to do something about it. The next issue is that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia recommends that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry prepare and present the necessary legal changes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia immediately, allowing transparent public procurement. Here the coalition is citing the Public Procurement Act No. 3, which is not even in force yet, and that is it. But then what happens? Then the purchases will take place in hospitals in exactly the same way and will again say that the marriage is bad. Once again, the law is what it is, and the law must be respected. If the law states that contracts up to a certain value can be ordered but higher, they must be respected by the public authorities. Because now we're talking about public institutions. This must be respected and no excuse. As far as prices are concerned, you say that prices in Slovenia are just the way they are, and that there is no corruption here. But look, you have been proven in several ways that prices in Europe are different and that there have been overpayments of material here. But you still insist, the government still insists that the reference prices will be those within Slovenia, not outside. And you're talking about a small square. This is where we can prove that it doesn't hold. That he doesn't. The Commission has also identified the suspicions of corruption in order to prevent corruption and their response is that they identify only the suspicions of corruption in order to give basic opinions, but the Ministry does not respond to this principled opinion either. So that I don't talk about the Ministry, because you're going to say that there's no authority in this area, we're going to talk about a government that has these powers. The Government has these powers to expedite these investigations in one way or another, either by regulation or by recommendation or by something. Today, I do not know how many times has been said about corruption in health, shown by numbers, coalitions or all the Members who have debated say that corruption in health is that it is a problem, but we are still, as has been said on the one hand, just talking. And it's a little awkward or liquid for me to keep reminding you of this, but that's because you're rejecting all these things, suggestions, recommendations, whatever we prove you wrong, you're rejecting. And we're going to be saying this here for so long, until I finally, I hope that as soon as possible, things won't change in this direction to say, yes, indeed, let's do this, this measure is that. But the measure you're going to propose, and it's going to cost, without you saying two years from now, that I don't know what the problems were. The measures must be such that there are no excuses not to be implemented. Because you have this power, the government has this power. And what are you doing with your new proposal, Minister? The Health Insurance Act, which is in some indents or proposals of a health insurance monopoly. Monopoly health insurance, my dears. So you put more money into this health insurance company that has no control over the operators. That's what they said on the boards. The representative, who was on the Public Finance Supervisory Board, was not v. d., but someone else, I apologize, I cannot remember the name now, said they had no authority or power to examine or control this spent money. They don't have it because they say that some doctors have experts who then go to hospitals to see doctors, but they don't achieve anything. And now you, with this new one, and this is not a reform, with the new law you're proposing, you're making a monopoly on this health insurance company. People will no longer have a choice, at least it is a voluntary insurance, and now it will be mandatory. Some will pay even more, and there is no substantive service according to these proposals. There are no changes in the management of public institutions, no changes in the reduction of waiting periods and so on. Even waiting periods — shortening waiting periods, which may also be the result of corrupt acts or have read about these corrupt acts to skip waiting periods — will not reduce this money. He won't. Look, you gave $7.9 million, you ordered, that was said by a health insurance company, a health insurance company, that it had to give $7.9 million to reduce waiting periods, without a public invitation to tender. Money has been given to certain hospitals, but what are the effects, and we still don't know. And in the new year, we're going to give 20 million taxpayers. Again, you ordered the insurance company to give the money. Are you going to do some analysis of where that money went? It will go again without public calls, it will not be possible to register public institutions, but it will be decided at the Ministry where the reduction of waiting periods will take place. I wonder if you give money as generously as you give it to the UKC, and say, okay, but now we're going to cover this loss by giving some millions – including to the Prekmurks or to the Zasavci. [[advertising from the hall]] Thank you, Mr. Jursha. I was thinking about Murko Sobota, so I told Prekmurje. So, do you give the money there as generously as you give it in UKC Ljubljana, which due to the overpayment of material – which was clearly said to the investigative commission: “Yes, because we overpaid we had a minus on UKC Ljubljana”, without any news Because it is taxpayer money because it is not my money, I can do what I want with it, or what? [[…]] And there is corruption in this. Because it has been said that suppliers insist. They commission doctors and others to come to sell. Up to 5,000, but then the hospital requires 20% more. I must say by the Ministry that today there were no concrete answers or answers to what concrete measures are. I agree that corruption has not started with this government, but this government, the Prime Minister of the Government, Dr. Cerar, once again said: "Since we are in government, the word corruption no longer exists." Now I don't know if then people make up the idea of paying doctors that it was prepaid. Is that what they're making up? Come on. Then you find that hard to believe when you open up the media every day and read this and this health problem again. And health care is an area that you set for yourself as a priority. If you set it a priority, you had to take a lot with you. But once again, the word corruption in Slovenia still exists. This has also been said today by the coalition MPs, not to cover their eyes. And I – these recommendations, which have been made, are no big deal, but on the committee it has been rejected that they are pointless and that the Ministry is working hard on this – I expect that, on the part of the Ministry, you may call on your initiative or on the initiative of the coalition a meeting of the Health Committee, where you will present an analysis of all the measures you have taken in this area. So the analysis of the reduction of waiting periods, the analysis of measures preventing corruption in health care, the analysis of how these joint orders work, the analysis of how much we have saved on common public procurement, the analysis of how much we have reduced the payment of material in hospitals, the analysis of what measures have been taken to reduce the deficit in hospitals. So for all of this you have the opportunity to call a committee and present it and then say it to the opposition like that, and now you have specific numbers here that will of course show what they will be. Without making a deficit of about 20 million UKC Ljubljana, you will reduce this deficit with a financial injection and then boast, yes, we have reduced it. I wonder whether that money you give to UKC Ljubljana or to Maribor or to Celje or to any hospital will go to the hospital or whether it will go to pay imbalances or all of these things that you do not know what kind of economic growth you are releasing. That's the question. Is it going to be patients or is it going to be money for overpaid material, or is it going to be pay or overtime or something? The question is also what 7.9 million euros were for the reduction of waiting periods. That's a question, too, and a lot more. So, you have a chance to call this in, you say that corruption is gone. Let the Prime Minister come and say that corruption is not in Slovenia, but international analysis shows that it is far from that. However, it will also be necessary to change the mentality of the human head, as well as the fact that people will eventually be more reporting on these phenomena of corruption.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u149	I have to ask because time hasn't run out yet, does anyone else want to discuss it? I'd like some more. In this case, I would like to remind you that before I give you the opportunity to sign up, you can sign up for the debate by pressing the microphone key. If you would also like to discuss the representative of the proposal's proposal for a recommendation from Mrs Jelka Godec and the representative of the Government, please also apply by pressing the key to turn on the microphone. In this case they will be given the word as the last, first the representative of the Government, then the representative of the proposer. I'm asking you to sign up. Each applicant shall have five minutes of time available. First of all, Mr. Joseph Horvat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good-bye to all of you again! Once again, ladies and gentlemen, the axiom of corruption and conflict are walking hand in hand. I mean, of course, the state of the spirit that is in this country of Slovenia because of corruption. Everywhere, really. This week we are talking about TES 6, a bank hole, a system of corruption in the health system that is supposed to take us half a billion euros a year. We don't know if that's true because you can't book it. These are the estimates of those people who work in the health system. And I certainly cannot accept that some coalition-type debaters expressed satisfaction over the world scale or the global corruption index, where Slovenia ranked 35th among 168 countries. I'd say that's all right, but, as it were, I'm not interested in North Korea, which is on the tail, but in Burkina Faso and so on. I am interested in Slovenia within the EU 28 and here we are in the lower half, which saddens me. Only minimal movements for the better have been made from 2012 to 2015. Due to this very index, the then KPK Senate resigned on 29 November 2013, as you know, Mr Goran Klemenčič, Mr Rok Praprotnik and Mrs Liljana Selinšek. And they wrote a very instructive farewell letter on 29 November 2013, addressed to the Members as well as to the then government of Alenka Bratušek to the heads of the parliamentary parties and to all residents and residents of the Republic of Slovenia. And here it is, talking about health care, here is the recipe, ladies and gentlemen, how to suppress or reduce systemic corruption in health care. Point four says: centralisation and informationisation and thus transparency of public procurement in public health. And the opposition is actually the one who somehow follows this letter. Some say, “Oh, again!” Of course again. On 23 November last year, New Slovenia submitted a request for an urgent meeting of the Health Committee and at that time a majority decision was adopted, namely: The Health Committee proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to prepare comprehensive measures to prevent corruption. We said, let's extend not only to the health system, but to the whole business or, if you want, to the whole public sector. As, of course, there is a public sector problem, there is virtually no corruption in private. We say more privatisation, less corruption. The ones you're defending public health, you're also advocating more corruption. And we propose, these gentlemen say, that Mr Klemenčič is here a valuable member of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, for the first time because he has seen this corruption in health care, but now he is in the executive branch of the authority to which this letter also refers, that the executive branch is that, and of course, the legislative branch that must prevent corruption. He says: “We propose to the Ministry of Health once again to standardise the procurement of medicines and medical devices and centralise procurement procedures for public health purposes, with the organisational provision of an appropriate time rotation of the procurement staff in order to avoid unauthorised or risky connections between suppliers and public servants carrying out procurement procedures.” And so on and so forth, I have too little time to read everything. I recommend it, really. I recommend this letter to read. And if Mr Klemenčič was then - I suppose - conscientiously writing this letter, and here he swore to act on his conscience, this letter should now be realized. And where is the realization, ladies and gentlemen? Therefore, with these agenda items, we will continue with these contents from the opposition. I assure you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u151	Dr. Ange Logar has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u152	Thank you, President. The question of where does this non-corruption commitment appear is in place. In fact, we are increasingly finding that in no area that is so acutely exposed, what progress cannot be made under this government, although by numbers this is far the most powerful government, given that it is made up of only three parties and that one party is so dominant within. In its reply, the Ministry of Health, in its rejection of these 5 decisions proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party, stated, inter alia, that the Minister of Health faces the problem of the existence of corruption, which has been present in Slovenia for a long time. Now I'm a little embarrassed. In fact, when we had a debate here on the interpretation of the Minister, the President of the Government here on the phone spoke to all of us about how we have one of the best health systems. This was confirmed by the Minister of Health. In one case, the Ministry therefore recognises that corruption exists for a longer period. It's kind of not working out. At least morally and ethically, it is not compatible if you on one hand say that you have the best health system or one of the best in Europe, but at the same time say that it is corrupt. I mean, he can be the best corrupt, but he sure as hell isn't the best. And if the ministry acknowledges that the health system is corrupt and that this is some practice that has been emerging for some time, we can really ask what the ministry has been doing to date. I'm sure it's not enough. On Monday, I spoke about this dual morale of the ruling coalition, which has once again emerged today. Earlier in the opening presentation, the former Parliamentary Vice-President, Mrs Bojana Muršič, had presented the health situation relatively precisely, drew attention to corruption, and then concluded with approximately this: we must start to act proactively. Two and a half years after the term of office, it is necessary to act proactively. What have we been doing so far? But that's not the worst of it yet, and the worst of it is that he says yes by suggesting yes, and then he rejects these conclusions on the board. That's a double morale. To talk about the kind of corruption that is in health care, to admit that you know when decisions need to be taken, and to vote against it, so today we do not confirm these decisions at the National Assembly, but we are just talking about it because obviously this coalition likes to speak, but it doesn't do anything. [[…]] Ms Muršič then presented an example of €8 million in combined public procurement, with a savings of 30%. The whole meal is 3.2 billion euros. What savings it would have been if we had consistently implemented this in all areas! You can figure it out. That's four hundred times that. If around €2 million is saved only on a small public contract, it is 800 million per year for all contracts. Or a colleague of Horvath spoke of 500 million or half a billion allegedly lost in health corruption. Half a billion. Look what a big pile of money this is. But there comes a minister who boasts that she has invested €10 million in reducing waiting lines. Do you know how many times $10 million goes in half a billion? 50 times. So, instead of getting into yachts, fast cars and luxury apartments and houses, the correct course could take 50 times more to reduce waiting lines. Who cares, except for those who have cars? And now this. The leader of the Desus Group says he is concerned that nothing has been done in this area and that governments have done little. Look, in recent years, Desus has had Desus, or he's always been in the government, but Desus has had 40% of the ministers of health. 40 %. He had Dorian Marusich, he had Tomaž Gantar, he even had Karl Erjavac, who was replacing him. Even him, even the president himself was a health minister. So it's a little strange to hear from these mouths that it's not done enough. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u153	Ms Nina Pirnat, State Secretary, Ministry of Health, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u154	Thank you very much. I applied again because I would still like to respond to some claims regarding waiting periods. The removal of waiting periods was intended for those waiting for an unacceptable length of time and have a more difficult life-threatening or difficult situation that directly pursues their health. The Ministry of Health has, of course, carried out a thorough review of the interventions implemented, which have been carried out in the amount of EUR 5 million, 526 thousand, 110 out of both joint, compulsory and complementary insurance. The Ministry of Health has done a thorough analysis of the proportion of implementation and the type of intervention for which the reduction was intended, both by operators and by the type of intervention. They also assessed or obtained accurate information on the operator by each means, as to how much funds were made for the payment of these programmes. Whoever wants can also get the data we have at the Ministry, the tables here now wouldn't be detailed. I haven't spoken to you about the joint public procurement before, because I really don't want to repeat myself, but obviously I have to. The public contracts we are talking about started for medicines in previous mandates, in 2011 and later, when the Ministry launched a pilot joint procurement project for 300 medicines, 70 substances in which hospitals were included voluntarily. We have come across a great deal of resistance from suppliers, but we have managed to master it over the years. And then joint public procurement and also a framework agreement was concluded with the suppliers of medicinal products for 2014 and 2015. The estimated value of savings at annual level since this was ordered together was 8.5 %. As I have already said, the Ministry of Health has only carried out joint public procurements for 10 emergency centres, saving slightly more than 30% and 3 million euros. Once again, as regards the public contracts still under way, of course, savings cannot yet be made because public contracts from 2016 have not yet been completed. There were a lot of questions from the bidders, six requests for review, and the last one was rejected. 12. 2016, and 7. 2. Opening of tenders shall be carried out. As regards the representative of the RS Office for Transfusion Medicine, who was also a member of the Council of the Public Agency for Medicines and Devices, he is, as I said, a member of the Council. As soon as there was a likelihood of a conflict of interest, the Council of the Institute considered and concluded that it existed. The mandate was also revoked by the Swiss company, which then referred to only one of its representatives, who was not a member of the board of the institution. In the event of a conflict of interest, the Council of the Institute shall immediately discuss and take appropriate action. The answer to the question about working in the professional world – the professional council mainly assesses the use of blood, preparations in the Republic of Slovenia, as regards the powers that a person had, but it was about representing a company in the regulatory process, so that the issues are neither completely compatible nor completely comparable. So now I will not judge the conflict of interest here, but where there might have been a conflict of interest, and this was, above all, in representation in the world of the institution, the matter was immediately resolved.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u155	Ms Jelka Godec, representative of the proposer, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u156	Let me start right here where you ended up. The Government proposes to the Council of the Public Medicines Agency and the Government has proposed to this man who lied in his CV that he is not a representative of the Swiss Medicines Company. And you immediately expelled him when it was discovered, or the world, of the public office? Did his term run out? This man lied in his resume that he wasn't a representative of a Swiss company. Do you understand? He lied. But you're not taking any action. He's out of office, and now he's gone. But in this term, he was a member of the Public Service Council, and there was a conflict of interest, and you say he's gone now. Yes, that's what I'm telling you all the time, in this love of Slovenia no one answers. He's out of office. He's gone. The Director of UKC is due, he is no longer there. But we're not gonna answer back? He lied in his CV to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that she was not a representative for the Swiss company, Madam Secretary. He lied. Did you punish him for that? Yeah, so he wasn't in the world anymore, but he could have done what he wanted before. That's what I'm telling you, and here you're keeping your eyes on the government. And you say, because it's okay for one person to run for office, but the other is not elected for chairman, third, I don't know, he can't be director anymore. But when he was, he was working, wasn't he? Just as he thought or as he could have pulled the strings, no one will answer for him. And that is what you are telling Slovenia, Madam Secretary, that she is not responsible for the back. No one's answering. That's what I'm trying to tell you, the government proposed it, the government gave a CV in which it didn't say it -- it wasn't saying it, it was a white lie, they said, so it didn't say it -- it wasn't lying, but the truth didn't say it exactly like it was supposed to. But that's okay now, because he's no longer in the world of the institution. In the meantime, such and other nonsense was happening. By common public procurement, we will obviously not come through, but my question was concrete: How did the Government say Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc improved the health system in Slovenia? And the government answers me, the first sentence on this is just a little bit to get it. [[…]] “There are 3.2 billion interests in health.” Now that I've read it, I went to look again, but there aren't many words. Or is there someone here who's a little funny about me because he tells me there's 3.2 billion interests in health care, so current Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc has no easy job. Ah, run, no. Now you will get a question from the Government to give me all these interests. 3.2 billion interests. Please tell me who they are. You can answer me now. [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, it's funny, it's funny, but that's what the government says to me. Because the issue against the government was raised. Now you're going to list them for me. Now you're going to list them for me, and I'm going to read them, even if it takes three nights together. And then there is the whole party, not everything was done, from the resolution, to the reduction of waiting periods for 3 months in Murska Sobota, but in Celje, I don't know what. And then it says, "In addition, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Public Administration issued a joint public call for medicines, which saved about 20% of the money in the first year." I asked for the current ministry, and you answered me, and now you're saying that these cuts were in 2011. That's not what I asked. That is why I say, when you answer the questions of the Members, I read them, the answers. And it's a big deal. Because I ask you three different questions within a week, and you answer 3 different questions, but my questions are so wrapped up that I should actually get the same answer and I don't get it. I don't get it. In addition to this joke, 3.2 billion interests, I am really interested – and the Minister is talking about these interests – whether these are the interests of suppliers or whether these are the interests of those who drive the yachts, as Mr Breznik said. What are your interests, Madam Secretary? 3.2 billion. And there'll be more in the insurance company now that you've done the monopoly. Then there'll be more interests. Then I don't know how you're going to be able to manipulate all of this so there won't be any corruption that's definitely coming today. So, give the responsibility to look for the back too. It's not like someone's membership in the departmental world runs out, but it's okay.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u157	This concludes the general debate on the proposal for a recommendation. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9. 12. 2009 The National Assembly notes that the procedure for the consideration of the proposal has been completed. I'm closing this agenda item. I am adjourning the 26th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 7 p.m. and 25 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u158	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the National Assembly. Before we proceed to the voting process, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: 12, 4, 10, 13, 11, 18 and 6 items of the agenda. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We move on to the 12th item of the agenda, which is to re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government We are moving on to a re-decision on that law. In doing so, I would like to point out that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in order to adopt that law, a majority of the members of the National Assembly must vote, i.e. 46 or more. We're voting. I'm breaking up. A self-explanation? Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? A self-explanation of the vote, Mr Primož Hainz.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u159	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, I must say that I know exactly the formal legal distinction between the mayor as an executive authority and between the municipal council, the MPs in the National Assembly, the state councillors, the short difference between the executive power, which is the mayor, and the legislative authority, which are the other authorities. But this is where we run into some morale problem that came up to us. If we want to be more strict with the mayors, we should apply this criterion to ourselves. And it is, of course, the one who, in my opinion, absolutely weighs in this way, that I cannot be in favour of a law that sanctions in some way, if I may say, only the mayors, but not us at some point, and therefore I will vote against the law of course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u160	Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u161	Thank you for your word, chairman. Actually, I wanted to do it on behalf of the delegation, but you missed me. Okay. We're all human. Morale. It is immoral that in Slovenia we have summed up most of the German legal order, but we have not summarized certain guards, including one of them. I used to say, in my own name now, that I am probably one of the few Members and Members to whom my local mayor or any other mayor has not exerted any pressure today or in the last days. Some logic is that if we save only for someone but not for others — as I said in the morning — we could virtually no longer save anything from us. There has also been a lot of talk and there has been a comparison of how many percent the mayor has been elected and how many of us are Members, because we know that this is a completely different approach to the elections. After all, I come from Maribor, I also have one of my electoral bodies, including a colleague from SMC who somehow defines himself as an aristocrat, we have a story that gives us thought, and nothing prevents us from arranging for the end of the term what the United Left has come to Parliament by the end of the term: to arrange systems or as the SMC would say, a systematic recall of all the preferred functions. And since I am speaking on my own behalf, I also agree with the President of the Constitutional Court, very much at home, that the National Assembly does not long for the judges and judges of the ordinary judiciary to take responsibility themselves as the third branch of power. I will vote in favour of this proposal. The position of the United Left is likely to come from what I have put forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u162	A self-explanation of the voice, Mr. Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u163	Thank you very much. I will not support this law because the applicant also said that it is almost impossible to process any mayor in all three phases. The mayor of Maribor probably would not have been called off if this law had already been adopted. Of course, he went alone because of the pressure. Therefore, I fear that this first phase, which is available to everyone for no purpose, will cause so much damage, and this is the purpose of this law, to despise the mayors. Be aware, fellow Members and Members, that even after you are no longer Members, everyone will have his mayor. If you're rude to them now. And probably these mayors have a much greater reputation for human beings, because the majority, which are good, are repeatedly elected after the majority elections, with more than half of all votes, has not yet been elected here in this way. And don't do that. As my colleague said before, let's put the space first before our threshold. Except for one, I don't think there's a Member here who's ever been mayor to support this marriage. Therefore, do not do injustice to those who try and do much good, significantly more than we do in this House, for the citizens of Slovenia. That is why I think we could take a mirror before this vote and look at it. I cannot support this law, and I will support all efforts to bring this law to an end as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u164	Is there any other explanation? A self-explanation of the vote, Mrs Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u165	Is it really necessary to adopt a law for 212 people? That's what we have in Slovenia. And if people with most of the votes have chosen someone as mayor, they should have one. If he works badly, he won't be re-elected in four years. If he's done something illegal, we've got law enforcement for it. And what's interesting is that as mayor, if you do something very good, your political opponents attack you even more. I have just this experience myself, so I don't think it's really necessary for 212 people here to have a special marriage. Because everyone has political opponents who are in politics, and unfortunately this can be very misused. I am not in an ideal relationship with the mayor of my municipality, it comes from another political option, but I do not want any political games to go away in the middle of the mandate and so on because I want my municipality to function as best as possible. I can't support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u166	A self-explanation of the vote, Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u167	Thank you very much. I already announced this morning how the parliamentary group will vote, and so will I, we will not support the law. So neither do I. But there is something to be said. Look, while the Constitution gives us the right to vote on our conscience and so on and so forth, there is something else behind our conscience and there must be something else. It's a moral feeling. Ladies and gentlemen, it is also a moral feeling that we must be led by the vote. The moral sense must also be judged: which one of us, which one of us received 50% or more. In this Chamber, I don't know if anyone ever got them in history, maybe they got them, I don't know, but there's no person in this Chamber who would get 50%. And so today we decide whether citizens will be able to call off those who have all received more than 50%, because this is the condition that they become mayor. We who have received a few hundred votes, many here sitting firmly under a thousand, therefore today decide the fate of the people who have received much more than we do. You see, here's my moral brake, and I think there should also be moral brakes on all those who are going to press a release button or for this law today. I don't think it's moral justice. We don't have moral rights until we have ourselves a procedure of our own resolution. In short, against the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u168	Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. I can see two more. Is there anyone else? An explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Mr Franz Breznik first.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u169	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll vote against it myself. Against this, because the Constitution stipulates that there are three branches of power in Slovenian parliamentaryism, which are in the system of barriers and balances. It's a court of law, it's enforceable, and it's legislative. As my colleague Gorenak said, we're talking about someone who's got more than 50%. Most of the time in Parliament, we are talking about problems relating to the judiciary, major professional errors, about judges with a permanent mandate. Last but not least, as you know, it is very difficult to forgive a poorly functioning public servant. On one occasion, several ministries have made catastrophic professional mistakes, making it possible for citizens to pay millions of euros in compensation. In Christendom it is true that at one time someone said that anyone without sin should throw a stone at him. I say he who is without sin throw a stone into the mayors. So we have to set up a mirror for ourselves. People elected an MP, an MP and a party to represent some interests, did not elect an MP to cross a party five times and represent a purely different policy than he represented in the elections. Members who say they are liberals, for example, turn out to be the most entangled socialists in Parliament. That is why, colleagues and colleagues, I am voting against it. We have no right to end the mandate with some quasi-critical initiatives in a place, civil initiatives that cannot elect their mayor in normal elections, but are, of course, behind them some political parties that have not received any mayor so far. Try hard, work for the people, and maybe you'll get some mayor someday. This is my message to all those who will vote today to get rid of the mayors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u170	Procedurally, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u171	Thank you for your word, chairman. Procedural. I expect the gentlemen to apologize to me. There's no problem with that. Each of us votes, is in, is in, is in, and there is a limit to where it goes. The mayors are elected by majority. Each mayor received 50% plus one vote of all who come either to the first or second round of elections. This also means, as Mr Vinko Gorenak would say: “Ah, the Slovenian football team defeated Qatar and scored a little over 30 goals, but basketball players would give in less time over 90 baskets.” These are some deceptions that go through every healthy measure. And I'm not going to land on this nonsense here anymore, and I'm asking them to apologize. Another time. My eight-year-old daughter knows what it means to share power, who is the legislator, who is the executive and who is the judicial authority, and someone who has such rich international experience that I don't know. [[…]] Thank you. I expect an apology.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u172	I have three more to explain in my own name, and these are Mr. Joseph Horvat, mag. Matthew Tonin and Mr Jani Möderndorfer. If there's anyone else, we'll apply for the list and we'll know how many more. An explanation of the voice in his own name, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u173	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will vote against this law because it is a prerequisite for the law to call off the mayor's legal order to recall me and all 89 of you. It is not moral for us to somehow reserve our seats and say that we are untouchable, at local level, even though this National Assembly has ratified the European Charter of Local Self-Government, which is not mentioned in this proposal at all and no one has read it, and we are leaving the mayors. That's not moral. This is my belief, so I will vote against this law. The European Charter of Local Self-Government says that, in fact, democracy begins if you want, in the village. Of course, you can't see to the village, to the countryside, to the outskirts of this country. You only see Ljubljana, of course you get the most votes here, because that is what this is about. Look what I'm proving. With a strategy to develop local self-government, which is a disaster. You're taking money from municipalities. And now, how will this marriage work? One street will be mobilised and the boys and ladies will go to the mayor, wave with this law, and they will say, "The mayor, look, here's the law that we can call you off with if you don't make us this sidewalk." And another street comes and says, "If you don't make us a water line, look, here's the law, we'll call you off." At the beginning of the term of office, this mayor, together with the municipal council, will adopt a short-term vision for the development of this municipality, and in the next moment he will be able to throw it into the basket because, as I said, this law will work. If this is normal, see And this signal you are sending to the Slovenian public today is also a signal for the first step of your journey to the dump site of history. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u174	Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u175	You're probably wondering why everyone from New Slovenia is actually advertising on this topic. Because it is simply not right for us to adopt this law. But it's not right, because when we leave this house tonight, we're all going to end up blaming this marriage. And I don't want us to be part of a law that only applies to mayors, but not to everyone else. Hand in hand, this marriage was made for one Member, and finally Jani wanted to extend it to all the officials and as a result we have now landed with the mayors. It would be right for this Parliament to stop this crazy story here and tell it not to this law. Because what will be the reality? The law provides that at the beginning of the mandate this tool should not be used or used in any way by people, nor should it be used by people at the end of the mandate, but in the meantime can it be used. The mayor who works well will not use this tool against it, but the one who is so corrupt, I believe that the court will react and that he will be convicted and that his mandate will run out in one way or another. But when this tool is done, I guarantee you that where the congregation is politically highly divided, there will now be a unique tool for them to fight with each other into the living and the dead. This will be a great thing for every opposition in a congregation, and they could not have been better equipped for the tools. And now that the mayors have reduced their average, that the money for the investments is practically gone, we put on our backs that they have to deal with the fact that someone doesn't like it every day, and then we've made it really complicated. And today we can stop her.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u176	A self-explanation of the vote, Mr Jani Möderndorfer
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u177	I am sorry that five minutes before the vote, there is such a large movement in the National Assembly by all or most of the Members who have debated in this direction. In fact, when the proposal was on the table for all the officials in the country, for everything from A to Z, that if you were convicted, you could not run for public political office, but you were against it. And today you're saying that this marriage is falling because it doesn't still apply to other officials. Now I'm going to tell you out loud again, my dear colleague Tonin, I see you haven't read the law or read anything. And more importantly, the Member of Parliament has written in the Constitution his Article 82, of which Mr Gorenak spoke. At the same time, on the basis of this Article, this Constitution may not be a mandatory mandate, but only a representative one, which does not apply to the mayor, nor is the constitutional category. As for the elections and the number of votes, no mayor can be elected in the first round unless he has 50% of all the votes that have come; and he voted in favour. And so talk about the fact that no municipal councilman can get more votes than the mayor, because he's elected by the proportional system and in the proportional system you don't choose in the same way – that's all one simple fiction, which you're now just saying in plain language and washing your bad conscience. In the end, of course, it is clear why this law should be supported. Since this is not about punishing mayors, but, of course, it is about a verbal game, it is about the rights of voters and voters. You don't say that out loud. And this is the third right to participate in democracy. And that is why, of course, this law needs to be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u178	Peace, please, one and the other. First of all, we are talking about explanations of vote. We are not back in the debate. But since there have been so many reports, please now that all those who have raised your hand do also report, or I will also consider this inappropriate. At least not to the chairman. Please sign up. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, mag. Alenka Bratušek
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u179	Thank you very much. As in the first vote, I will press the counter button today. The adoption of the electoral system by which someone has been elected cannot affect and must not affect any moral standards that you want to set for mayors by the Local Elections Act. I signed the whole package of legislation myself, and if the whole package of legislation were adopted, this law would also have my vote. But we cannot deceive ourselves and set rules for others, but for us who are here, everything that is desired and imagined applies. It's not right. It's not right. I hope that we have gathered so much courage and courage that this law will not be adopted today. But let's start again from the beginning with ourselves, and then let's say who doesn't and who wants.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u180	Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Mr Franz Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u181	Thank you very much, President. Say good-bye to everyone again! I have to say that I have been thinking for a few days about what to do in this re-vote about the law, which is kind of regulating this matter that we're talking about here today. If there were more debaters who would explain their voice, they would convince me otherwise than I have decided. Especially because you're saying incorrect information because you're saying what's not true. And that you don't understand what a majority system is and what is a system by which Members are elected – this cannot be compared. My dears, this is the wrong information to the public. Tell me honestly that you support the mayors. And I'm going to say it now, frankly, in Slovenia we have a total of 212 and 213, someone said 212, 213 municipalities. Of this, I am sure that 205 is what I have said in a framework somewhere, good, excellent, respected mayors, who are honest Democrats who do what is right and avoid corruption. We may also have a weak dozen who are corrupt, and we have those who are not Democrats who do not allow words to vote and vote, to saints and so on. But we would make a big mistake if we decided to support such a marriage. For what? Especially because the municipal council, which in most cases is the mayor, remains there. And what will the new mayor do? And that's for closure. I'll decide as I've predicted. I will vote against this law. And not because the mayors influenced me, but because I made that decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u182	A self-explanation of the vote, Mr Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Social Democrats and I do not personally change our position and, of course, we will vote against this law. In principle, politics is one of the most hated businesses in this country. And we daily, daily, this idea of being the most hated business in this country, we only encourage, even with such an act as they were today. In the 25-year history of the country, ladies and gentlemen, the local self-government is the one we can be absolutely proud of in this country. If anything, in 25 years we have developed local self-government to the extent that the state today looks what it looks like. And that's what the mayors with the municipal councils did. And because of one or two mayors who are not of the Members' will, we would now be killing these mayors. Yes, but no Social Democrats. Alenka said who we are to make rules for others. Every day, Alenka, unfortunately, we adopt laws and lay down rules for citizens and citizens, citizens and citizens, we can also make rules for mayors. But I think we've absolutely got things on the wrong side. I hope and am glad that Desus too has taken over the view that they will not support this law, that this law will not today receive 46 votes and will not live because I think they would do a great injustice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u184	We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 37 votes against 38. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 38.]] I understand that the law is not passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Immaterialised Securities in the framework of the shorter procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 52 votes in favour and one against 1. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Banking Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law supplementing the Banking Act is suitable for further consideration. The explanation for the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group is mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u185	Mr President, thank you for the floor. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the proposal to supplement the Banking Act. There's enough arguments for that. The law itself would remove the degree of confidentiality mainly in those banks that are being rehabilitated by the taxpayer's money. We believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that it would be fair for taxpayers to learn who is responsible for the resolution of the banking system. Slovenia is the only country in the European Union that has already rehabilitated the banking system twice at the expense of taxpayers and, above all, will be the rehabilitation of two private banks, Probanks and Factor Banks, which have been saved from tax money. In view of the debate in the National Assembly itself, we estimate that some Members and members of the coalition are aware of these responsibilities, as it was clear from the debate itself that they are aware of the responsibilities that the bad practices of the banking system should be disclosed to the public, especially when tax money is involved.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u186	We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 38. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 38.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 13th paragraph of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Recommendation concerning the payment of compensation to the Roman Catholic Church for the longevity of denationalisation procedures and other claims. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a recommendation on the payment of compensation to the Roman Catholic Church on the basis of the longevity of the denationalisation procedures and their other claims is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 65 votes against 13. [[The vote was 65.]] [[Against 13.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision and therefore the procedure for the consideration of the proposal has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 11. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a bill on the ratification of the amended agreement on the establishment of the General Fisheries Commission in mid-earth. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Magnificent Nutrition. Marjan Podgorska.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u187	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, the President-in-Office! We have before us the proposal for a law on ratification of the Amended Agreement establishing a General Fisheries Commission in the Mediterranean. The amendments to the Agreement were unanimously confirmed by the members of the General Fisheries Commission in the Mediterranean at the plenary session in Rome held from 19 to 24 May 2014. The Republic of Slovenia has actively participated in the preparatory process and in the approval of the Amended Agreement establishing the General Fisheries Commission in the Mediterranean. The contents of the amended Agreement are consistent with the views adopted by the Republic of Slovenia and with the guidelines adopted at EU level in this regard. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is at the 6th regular session of 22. Ten. 2014 took the view that the Republic of Slovenia supports the proposal for a decision on the conclusion on behalf of the European Union of the Amended Agreement establishing a General Fisheries Commission in the Mediterranean. The proposal for a Council decision on the conclusion of the amended Agreement was also given a positive opinion by the Committee on European Union Affairs of the National Assembly at its 8th session. 11. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Council Decision on the adoption of the Amended Agreement establishing the General Fisheries Commission in the Mediterranean on behalf of the European Union and the Amended Agreement establishing the General Commission in the Mediterranean was published in the Official Journal of the European Union No 111 on 30. 4. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Commission-General for Fisheries in the Mediterranean is a regional fisheries management organisation operating within the framework of the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organisation and covering fisheries management, with the exception of tunas and tunas of similar fish species in the Mediterranean and the Black Sea. The purpose of the amendments to the agreement establishing the General Fisheries Commission is to modernise this regional fisheries management organisation, coordinate with the modern instruments of regional fisheries management organisations and thereby strengthen the role of this organisation in the conservation and sustainable management of fisheries resources in the Mediterranean and the Black Sea. The General Fisheries Commission in the Mediterranean is the only regional fisheries management organisation of which the Republic of Slovenia is a member. The Republic of Slovenia has been a member of the General Fisheries Commission since 2004 when the Act on the ratification of the Agreement establishing the General Fisheries Commission in the Mediterranean was adopted. This is a regional organisation whose decisions have a direct impact on the management of Slovenian fisheries. Membership in this organisation of Slovenia enables participation in the decision-making and decision-making process within this regional organisation. The substantive amendment to the Agreement concerns a clearer interpretation of the purpose, fundamental principles and approach to fisheries management within this regional organisation. At the same time, amendments to the Agreement shall take into account and include key elements of the EU's common fisheries policy, including the objective of achieving the maximum sustainable yield of fishery stocks and an ecosystem and precautionary approach to the management of stocks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u188	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the National Assembly. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the National Assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 71 votes against 1. [[The vote was 71.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 18. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. We are moving on to the consideration of the Consent to the appointment of the Director General of the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia. The Assembly of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia is based on Article 74, paragraph 2, of the Health and Health Insurance Act 14. 12. 2016 In agreement with the National Assembly, she forwarded the decision appointing Mr Marjan Sušlja as Director-General of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance. The proposal was treated by the Mandate-Election Commission as a parent working body. In order to present the report to the Commission, I give the floor to the President, Dr Mitja Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u189	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament! The mandate-voluntary commission shall be held at the 29th ordinary sitting of 19. 1. 2017 as a parent working body was treated by the Decision appointing the Director General of the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia. He was 14 years old in the National Assembly. 12. On the basis of Article 74, paragraph 3, of the Health and Health Insurance Act, the Assembly of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia submitted an agreement with which it appointed Mr Marjan Sušlja as Director-General for a period of 4 years. The Health and Health Insurance Act in Article 74, paragraph 1, provides that the management body of the institution shall be the director who must have a high professional education and at least 5 years of work experience. Under the second paragraph of the same Article, the Director shall be appointed by the Assembly of the Office in agreement with the National Assembly. The meeting was also attended by Mr Jože Smole, President of the Assembly of the Slovenian Institute for Health Insurance, who explained the progress of the procedure of the appointment of the Director of the Slovenian Institute for Health Insurance at the Assembly of the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia and took a short career and a vision of the candidate. In the debate, the members of the panel expressed their concerns about a candidate who, according to his model of action, views and vision, did not differ from the previous candidate who had already given his consent twice before this procedure. Consent to his appointment would mean the continuation of the current situation at the Slovenian Institute for Health Insurance, which is not satisfactory and requires radical changes, including staff. The position of Director-General of the Slovenian Institute for Health Insurance is also very important because of the large amount of budgetary resources available to Slovenia's Institute for Health Insurance, so they see the candidate with a different vision and practice from before. They pointed out the urgency of the early reform of the system of operation of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia and called on the Assembly of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia to hear more criticisms, calls and proposals by most Members. Members of the opposition commission touched on and highlighted the issue of inadequate system-wide health regulation in their discussions. Following the discussion, the Commission voted on the following proposal for a decision: The mandate-voluntary committee proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a Decision on consent to the appointment of the Director-General of the Slovenian Health Insurance Institute, which gives the National Assembly the consent to appoint Marjan Sušlja. The Commission did not adopt the proposal. The Commission therefore proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for a decision on consent to appoint the Director-General of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance, which gives the National Assembly the consent to appoint Marjan Sušlja, should not be accepted. Thank you so much for the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u190	I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr. Franc Jurša has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u191	Thank you. Your Honor! Let me begin by saying that Members and Members of our Group are unitedly supporting Mr Marjan Sušlja's candidacy as Director-General of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance, and that is why we will vote against the negative decision of the Mandate-Electorial Commission. It is true that there was a lot of debate at the Commission's own meeting on the healthcare system, a lot of criticism was expressed, especially at the expense of the entire healthcare system. We also join these criticisms in the parliamentary group, but we cannot support the position you have taken in the end. This is that the proposed candidate is not fit to perform this function. Why? Since it is extremely irresponsible and irresistible that one of the state cash registers, which weighs €2.6 million, has been without full guidance for many years, and the conduct of the domestically-spoken manhunt with science. And I can't point my finger at just one shareholder, and there are more. There are many of you who have a word on who will lead this great treasury. Today is the third time we have decided on the eligibility of the candidate for this city. For three years now, it has not been possible to find a person who is ready and able to lead this institution professionally, and it appears, at least as far as the discussions at the Commission's own meeting are concerned, this time it will not come to the conclusion that we will appoint him. I strongly hope that I am wrong that you have changed your mind and concluded that you will also support the proposed candidate. At this point, the position of the Desus Group would normally also be concluded, but I must also comment on a certain part of the Member's debate at this meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, namely the part in which the Member was, in our opinion, extremely offensive at the expense of the age of candidates in connection with the possibility of performing a certain function. Mr Member, we did not expect this from you and we place it on your heart to keep such inappropriate observations to yourself in the future. We represent the attitude of young people, especially the attitudes of older ones, and we respect the elderly. To get back to the point under consideration. In the Desus Group, we will unitedly support the proposed candidate, Mr Marjan Sušlj, on the basis of his professional competence and his work experience, so we will vote against the negative decision of the Mandate-Electorial Commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u192	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u193	Thank you very much, President. I'll be very brief. Every day, every hour we change our position from minute to minute. The Social Democrats are the only ones on the Mandate-Election Commission who supported Mr Sušlja as director of this great health treasury, and you cannot believe that we will also vote today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u194	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mr Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u195	Thank you, Mr. President. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have decided after the conclusion of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which issued a negative decision appointing the Director-General of the Institute, that after a debacle, which is therefore in the Slovenian Democratic Party – reform of a system – we understand as a deeper intervention into a system or into some subsystem of a country, and thus we see the continuation of the system. So what's going on? The reform itself does not eliminate the systemic risk of corruption in Slovenia. This also showed that you do not have the will, today's meeting, where we discussed it in one of these points. Also, not naming directors at this time would mean literally abolishing the last security guard to oversee the health system and systemic corruption in that country in the health system. That is why, despite the fact that we have abstained in this vote on the Mandate-Electorial Commission – we have waited for what will be the presentation of the health reform by the SMC, and, as we see, these health reforms are not, in fact, a reflection of this country, a reflection and a use of the word reform – today we have voted against the decision of the Mandate-Electorial Commission and Mr Sušlja we will support for the Director-General of the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia, because it represents the last safeguard against systemic corruption in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u196	We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There are no applications for discussion, so we are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. [[advertising from the hall]] Can I read the decision to the end and then procedurally? The National Assembly agrees to appoint Marjan Sušlja as Director General of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance. In addition: The Commission on Elections proposes to the National Assembly not to adopt the proposal for a decision. Procedural. Mr. Branko Zorman.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u197	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. All I'm asking is for an interpretation, because I'm in a bit of a dilemma right now. The President of the Mandate-Election Commission and you have now read the negative conclusion. Therefore, I ask you for a purely laity interpretation – if I vote in favour, will the candidate be confirmed, and if I vote against it, will it not be the other way around? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u198	If you vote in favour, it will be confirmed. If you vote no, it will not be confirmed. The decision is positive. [[advertising from the hall]] The decision is as follows: The National Assembly agrees to appoint Marjan Sušlja as Director General of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance. If you vote yes, you're up for it. If you vote no, you're up for it. What's not to understand here? We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 54 votes in favour and 10 votes in favour. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against 10.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. [[advertising from the hall]] Procedurally, Dr. Franz Ducky. Please be quiet so he can say what he wants.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u199	There is a vote on you that decides on a gentleman who will co-decide on billions of dollars, and in the meantime you growl like monkeys, so I would ask for 10 minutes of interruptions so that you can all calm down together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u200	I think we're just gonna calm down right now because you've calmed us down with this procedural proposal. We are moving on to the examination of the motion for election to a judicial office at the District Court of Justice in Trbovje, the proposal for election to a judicial office at the District Court of Labour in Maribor and the motion for election to a judicial post at the District Court of Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. The Council of Justice submitted proposals to the National Assembly for the election of the Magi. Vida Pavlica in judicial function at the District Court of Justice in the District Court in Trbovje, election of Mrs. Nataša Čučko to the judicial office of the District Court of Labour in Maribor and election of mags. Urše Klemenčič in the judicial capacity of the District Court in the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. In order to further explain the proposals, I give the floor to Mrs Ionika Marflak Trontel, Secretary of the Council of Justice. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u201	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! At today's meeting, the National Assembly is considering 3 proposals by the Council of Justice for election to the judiciary. First of all, let me give you a brief overview of the reasons why these three courts were called. The District Court in Trbovje is currently in business with 6 judges. One of them recently announced his retirement, and the two judges who retired last year were not yet replaced. In court, it is estimated that there will already be and in the short-term expected shortage of staff in the courts, taking into account the cases, a newly elected judge who will judge in the legal areas of the judges who have already retired or will be retired in a short period of time. In the past, 14 judicial posts were envisaged for the Labour Court in Maribor and its 3 external departments. The number of judges in this court has been decreasing for a long time, with only 6 judges and the President of the Court currently serving as judges. The speedy resolution of individual and collective labour disputes, which are among the cases which, due to their nature, require a solution as soon as possible, has been ensured in the court by redistribution of judges between the home court and the external departments. In spite of the measures taken to ensure the prompt resolution of cases, it is essential that one court seat be filled in in order to ensure the continued success of the court. Last year, the court recorded an increased caseload, while the conditions for retirement were met by three more judges. In court they therefore expect a change of generation in the courts in a very short time, for which the entry into force makes sense. The Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana, like the Labour Court in Maribor, is a specialised first-degree court responsible for the trial of individual and collective labour disputes and in social disputes. During the previous year, three courts were vacant in the working section of this court for which the Court is scheduled, one on grounds of retirement, two on grounds of appointment of judges to a higher court. Taking into account cases and human resources malnutrition, one vacant court seat should also be filled in in this case in order to ensure prompt resolution of labour disputes. At the same time, we stress that due to the nature of the disputes that this court is dealing with and which are generally of existential importance to the parties, it is extremely important that the cases be dealt with promptly. The Court is pursuing the objective of the immediate resolution of cases relating to the termination of employment relations and therefore it has been necessary to call for a single free seat, since other courts of work around the country do not have reserves and therefore it is not possible to refer the cases or transfer the judges in this legal area at present. With regard to the selection procedure before the Court of Justice. 21 candidates applied for the District Court of Justice in Trbovje. None of them are yet a judge, four candidates are lawyers, two candidates are working in the economy or banking, and the remaining candidates are working as professional colleagues in different courts. On the invitation to tender for the free seat of the District Judge at the Labour Court in Maribor, with the scheduled allocation to the external department in Murska Sobota, 10 candidates applied. None of them are yet a judge, two are working as a lawyer, the remaining eight candidates are professional associates in different courts. 17 candidates applied for an invitation to tender for the free seat of district judge at the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. 2 of the candidates are already judges, the other candidates perform either the work of professional co-workers in different courts or work in legal services in the economy, various legal works in the public sector or are lawyers. In all 3 cases, selection procedures were carried out in several stages, by phasing out candidates and by using two methods to determine the knowledge and abilities of candidates, by looking into documents and oral interviews. Allow me to introduce briefly the candidates proposed by the Council of Justice to the National Assembly for election to the judicial function. Mag. Vid Pavlica has more than 10 years of work experience in various legal areas. Of that, eight years after his legal examination, after which he had been employed for a short period of time in law enforcement, he became a senior judicial adviser to the District Court. This work has been done for more than 7 years in various legal areas, namely, enforcement, criminal, criminal, unfair, and hereditary areas. He is therefore very well aware of the work of district courts and district judges. The fact that the candidate has so far worked in various legal areas undoubtedly represents an added value for the work of the First Instance judge in a smaller district court where judges usually face trials in a variety of cases. He is doing his work in court of great quality, and he has been commended by the head of the Executive Department of the District Court in Ljubljana, where he has been employed since 2010. It highlighted its good working skills, broad legal knowledge, high performance, quality of written court decisions and independence at work. In particular, it stressed its quality of work also in addressing more complex legal problems and the readiness for additional tasks. The president of the District Court in Ljubljana also assessed that mag. The view of Pavlica above average meets all the conditions for the city of the District Judge. Among the 21 candidates, he assessed him as one of the two most suitable candidates for the district judge's seat. The Council of Justice has found that, in the very successful performance of the job, the candidate is above average also active in various additional mediation activities, both public and teaching. On average, he also had a successful conversation with members of the Council of Justice, where he confirmed broad and in-depth legal knowledge, very good analytical and logical thinking and the ability to make very effective use of acquired expertise in solving legal issues. He has also demonstrated very good verbal skills, conflict management and communication skills. That's why the Council of Justice thought he was a mag. The sight of Pavlica of all candidates most suitable for the performance of judicial service at the District Court of Justice in the District Court in Trbovje. Nataša Čučko has been employed in the Labour Court in Maribor since 2006 as a senior judicial adviser. She has gained 11 years of experience in the field of labour, which is also directly linked to the trial of the First Instance Judge. The President of the Court considers her expertise, working skills, skills and quality of work to be above average. At the same time, it highlights its long-standing and very diverse experience in this legal field, which enables it to begin its trial immediately in the light of its expertise. Her professional subordination in this legal field and her skills and acquired skills necessary for the successful performance of the judicial function were also convinced by the Council of Justice in an oral interview where Natasa Chučko stood out positively compared to other candidates. Its answers to the professional questions raised, both civil, procedural and labour law, confirmed its extensive and in-depth expertise from the various legal areas necessary for the work of the District Court in the working court. In this way, the Council of Justice considered Natasa Chučko of all the candidates applied for on this call to be the most suitable candidate for judicial service at the District Court of Labour in Maribor. Mag. Urša Klemenčič has been very successful as a student at the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana and has also done a very good legal exam. He has acquired the academic title of Master of Civil and Economic Law. During the nine-year period following the completion of the study, the course was carried out in various roles in the judiciary and the economy. She was an intern in court, then a lawyer and a lawyer and a lawyer in the legal services of companies and banks. It is actively linked to the work of the courts all the time. First, it was directly involved in the judicial proceedings as a trainee, in the legal activity as an agent of the parties and later as a representative of employers in various judicial proceedings. An important part of its work obligations covers the labour area. The President of the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana classified her as the third most suitable candidate for the city. Its varied work experience gained in the field of labour law in various roles will undoubtedly be very useful in the performance of the judicial function. The candidate also had a very successful conversation with the members of the Council of Justice, where she demonstrated the breadth and depth of legal knowledge, and her rich, deep and varied work experience and excellent rhetorical skills were confirmed. The Council of Justice has thus assessed that mag. Urša Klemenčič of all candidates shows the integrated best combination of professional knowledge, work experience and working ability to perform judicial service at the district court in the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. Thus, the Council of the State proposes to the National Assembly, in its election to those courts, mag. He sees Pavlica, Natasha Pussy and Mag. Ursho Klemenčich. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u202	The proposals were addressed by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. Since there are no reports to the debate, we are moving to a vote. I am putting to the vote a proposal for a decision by which to be magnified. Vid Pavlica elects to serve as Judge at the District Court in Trbovje. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 52 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I put to the vote a motion for a decision by which Mrs Nataša Čučko is elected to the judicial office of the District Court in the Labour Court in Maribor. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 52 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am putting to the vote a proposal for a decision by which to be magnified. Urša Klemenčič elects to serve as Judge at the District Court of Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 52 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Border Control under the ordinary procedure. The National Assembly is on Monday, 23. 1. 2017, carried out a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the assembly, on a proposal from the Government as a candidate, decided that, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a third consideration of the draft law would be carried out at that meeting. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted at the second-reading meeting of the home working body or the National Assembly would make the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u203	Thank you for your word. Today there was a lot of talk about morality and ethics and again about morality and up and down, when you were deciding about a gentleman who would decide on billions, you were snarling when the lady was reading about judges, she was listening to us maybe five, six, and the two biggest parties had their mouths full again, I can't say mouth, about the rule of law and this, Mr President, you didn't interrupt. Now, specifically to this law. Mrs. Alenka said we can do whatever we want here. That's not true. There is a 153rd Article of the Constitution, which also states that laws and regulations must comply with the Constitution. Throughout the history of this country, there are a whole series of laws, including those that should not go to the Constitutional Court, and because of the excess they had to go here. Even more, yesterday the district minister taught me that, in fact, it is not a problem, whether I understand a law as an MP or not, in short, I am some sheep who is supposed to decide here. This is the Parliament. Why you cannot support this law in particular those who have previously exposed the local community, the mayors, etc.? I will not be ashamed of the unconstitutionalness of this law, given the repressive dimension of this law, only to see that the 20,000 landowners you've taken in unconstitutionally to their property rights will receive that I will not be taken again, a poor potato jackal this year. You know, basically I'm Belokranjec, we'll send a contingent or we'll send it to the Baltic for 12 million, it's a mailbox, it's a wire, it's that old, the panels are going to cost so much and so much. Cerar said that we are setting this up because of Croatia, but at the same time we will be putting these citizens and citizens at the southern border, where the majority of the municipalities resulting from the regulation, which provides for this, are in a developmental danger, just as we have then thrown to the pensioners some rudely rude change. If you have so much for local self-government, I suggest you vote against this law, and in the United Left we vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u204	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Modern Centre Party, Mr Marko Ferruga.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u205	Unlike my predecessor, in the SMC, we believe that this is one of the parts of the law where we protect measures for mass migration. This law is still in force, and we are also regulating it. The next fact is that it is more clearly regulated by technical means, I am talking about photography, audiovisual matters, means of vehicle identification, persons and objects. Under the third point, this law also, as mentioned by Mr Trček, requires compensation for owners. We will not relativise what this means for whom and how much this value is, but the resources for it are in the budget. And what is very important and must not be forgotten is the high degree of coordination of the content of these proposals with the Information Officer, the PSC and also the Ombudsman. It should be added that it clearly defines what the police can and cannot do and that it clearly defines how it works with regard to all the concerns surrounding the marriage of freedoms. That is why we will also support this law in the SMC.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u206	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u207	Thank you very much. The opposition is always against us, sometimes we hear it from the rulings. I will say so this time, the law before us, and by this principle we judge everyone else, of course, is one of those laws that we would not want. But because the situation is really the way it is, and because we are like a country after a long ordeal and I will tell brain exercise, the exercise of the rulings – they will start setting up a wire that you call technical barriers to. The situation is relatively clear that this was necessary, and we supported that. Of course, it is simply that this measure has somehow affected the property of many people living along the border, where the use of all this, these goods, is reduced, less valuable, their work is difficult and so on and so on. That is why it seems to us, and this is also an essential part of the law, that it is right, however, to uphold the law. So you'll know we're backing him up. Think a little about when the situation is reversed, so that we can support something else from the opposition. President, a few words, however, for your conclusion. We've heard a few more ugly words before, and so on. You, I've already told you, have dropped the level of action of this council to the lowest level since the country's independence. So once again, and I'm going to keep saying this at the meetings of the National Assembly, think about it, think about it when you're giving someone a reminder here on the left, because it's a little chatty, and on the other hand we hear what doesn't belong in Parliament. Think about it. You've shown us with your hand now, too. Keep your voice down. He's talking. Excuse me, President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u208	Is there any other explanation? It's not. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 67 votes against 4. [[The vote was 67.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 26th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m.
