ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Starting the 35th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Primož Hainz from 3.30 p.m. to 6 p.m., mag. Matthew Tonin, mag. Aleksander Kavčič, Janja Sluga, Uroš Prikl from 15.30 p.m., Dr. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček and Violeta Tomić from 18:00 p.m. I say hello to everyone who's here! Procedurally, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice hello to you all! In fact, I will have three procedural proposals, one apology and one notice to give. The first procedural proposal is to chat a little more quietly during the meetings and to read to ourselves Members and Members on the portal of the National Assembly what our work is. Then I would apologize to Desus for having learned the lapsus in one day of this session and I said that Desus had abolished the SDK, that's not true, that was the story of another group of Demos, but that was very appropriate for those who call them the old political roads. Secondly, we also have closed sessions in the National Assembly. And what's going on in closed sessions shouldn't come out in public. In particular, the president of the Defence Committee, who immediately tweeted what Duck said at the KNOVS meeting, which is true, holds what I said. The third procedural proposal is, of course, that we are here, if we are already talking about security, that we are not spreading intolerance, which is what the SDS has been doing all this time. And I will also ask the Constitutional Court to personally apologize to me for saying that parliamentary democracy in Slovenia is not possible without Janez Janša in this fight. We see how she is. And, of course, I got out of KNOVS today with a colleague from SD, and he finally said, John is happy, let's give a little applause to Janša, we threw millions into it [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u3	Please, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u4	I'm gonna stop here. The rest of the coalition with the opposition, well, Mr Tonin is not here today, but he wants to continue this irresponsible policy and abuse the committees in greater party interests. SDS got a million and a half from Orban to honk a trumpet there, and the National Assembly has to do something else. Thank you for your word, thank you for your reminder.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u5	Then I don't even have to say it, that's the first part. The second part, which is only relevant, is that what you mentioned about the KNOVS must be stated by the National Assembly, but it is certainly not formally formalised as it should be, because we know that this matter is being decided by the National Assembly with most of them. We have a special law that regulates this. But I'll leave this to the procedure when it's time. Now we continue with what we are here for today, so we are going to vote. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, at this point, we continue the adjourned meeting of the assembly. Before proceeding to the voting procedure, I would like to inform you that the State Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: 25, 35, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 3, 4, 20, 43 and 1 item of the agenda. We are moving on to the votes of the National Assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of the 25th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the draft law on amendments to the Law on the Public Sector Salaries System, following an urgent procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, which is to decide on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 2. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 35th item of the agenda, this is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Community Financing in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 11. 2017. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 3. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 45. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of Article 8 of the Left Party. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Left Party Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, chairman. Yesterday at the end of the agenda, I regret to say, we had an exceptionally high-quality debate on the issue of local self-government in Slovenia and the necessity of implementing the reform of local self-government after 25 years of existence as we have it. I even said that if I had been entrusted with the role of executive, I would take over, in fact, to call everyone who debated the Ministry's team. One of the huge sins of this coalition, and in particular the SMC, is that it did not go into the implementation of the reform of local self-government in this mandate. Why? Because in this term we had a generation changeover, when many new people arrive in Parliament they are probably the least pressure, something we call the mayor's lobby. It is extremely irresponsible that this did not start seriously in this mandate, because it is a process that each much more politically normal society and a country with a much higher political culture has carried out in a decade, for example in Styria, Denmark, Albanians going into reform of local self-government and could continue. In this unfortunate amendment of the law, which does not essentially open up the essence, does not open the essence that all municipalities are not the same, does not open the essence of going to see what the mandatory tasks of the municipalities are, does not open the essence of going to see where the municipalities are actually financially stricken and what should be centrally financed, such as compulsory education, we have nothing left but to try to fix some bits. In this amendment to Article 8, we maintain the possibility that only two municipalities will go to the joint administration, because on some outskirts of Slovenia you also have such geographical obstacles that three municipalities cannot do so. And as a result of the Harmonised Regional Development Act, we add another 10% of the possibilities of funding, for all those developmentally endangered municipalities, local communities in Slovenia, which do not have regions. But, of course, regions are not being set up because some political option is going to rip this off, and there a little bit domestically, as they say in the human language, is going to steal money. I now hope that this amendment of ours will be supported. However, I also hope that in the next call of the National Assembly, another and a different political obstacle will begin to address this subject, because, after all, we are also Members and Members of a citizen and citizens of some municipalities, where we have been elected or live or work together or all three. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u7	We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 32 votes in favour and 42 votes in favour. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the second reading of the amendment to the supplementary proposal of the law has not been adopted, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for laws. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! New Slovenia will vote against this proposal for a law on the financing of municipalities. That's amazing! This law is not in line with any of the representative organisations or communities or associations of Slovenian municipalities. That's amazing. It is amazing that we do not have a minister for local self-government, but of course we have a minister against local self-government – because he is not the first, even in what previous term he was already in. This law actually gives rural municipalities, especially municipalities on the periphery of secondary congregations. The state is centralizing. This policy should once be completed by a lesson called subsidiarity. This is also a European political principle or political value. That's amazing! This Slovenia seems to be becoming only Ljubljana with its surroundings. And yesterday's debate, indeed the right, coalition and opposition MPs, has shown that this law is not good, that it is bad. Now it's just a question of whether we're going to make decisions here as right or as coalition. That's all this is about. And so full are our mouths about respect for law, rule of law and so on. Don't joke! For several years we have been the Republic of Slovenia and this National Assembly and governments are violating the European Charter of Local Self-Government. Eclatic violators. And more than that, I am not talking now about a strategy for the development of local self-government, which really deserves to go to a bucket of paper, because we are ecological and separate waste. And ladies and gentlemen, until you realize that Slovenia is also there in the far east and in the far west and in the far south and also in the far north, until then there is no good perspective in this Slovenia. I expect today, I can't talk to you, but we in New Slovenia will do what is right, and we will help break this law. What is happening is that municipalities are assigned new and new tasks, but money is not, and that dialogue is not respected neither with the Community of Slovene municipalities nor with the Association of Slovenian Municipal municipalities, this is amazing! And that what is now being set up here in this law for some new representative groups of congregations or whatever you call it is unacceptable. We violate the Constitution, we violate the European Charter of Local Self-Government. We're not here, so we're voting against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u9	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u10	Thank you, President, for your word. In the SDS Group, we will vote against the law on the financing of the municipalities ahead of us. Apparently, this government has decided that, on behalf of the largest customer of the Modern Centre, this centralisation will also actually be carried out and that this centralisation will be carried out at the expense of those municipalities that are not close to Ljubljana. This law on the financing of municipalities opens up a number of key points that touch on the financing of municipalities: common municipal administrations, averages, appropriate spending and more. And the proponents, so the government herself wrote that the analysis showed that changes were needed. When we asked the committee and even at the meetings of the National Assembly, which of these analyses and what they showed, we did not get the answer. When we asked what this law would bring about in the field of averages and appropriate spending, we did not get the answer. All we knew was that at the expense of this law, Ljubljana would receive €80,000 more. And given that the bill states that the law has no financial implications, we asked, on whose behalf Ljubljana will receive 80 000 euros more, and we did not get an answer. When we asked why indexation is taken for appropriate consumption, where at least some of it is coordinated each year, we did not get the answer. When we asked why certain matters in the field of community administrations, which you imposed on the congregations themselves, were discontinued, we did not receive an answer. In short, this law raises many new questions and no concrete calculation, no concrete answer to what this law brings to the congregations in 2018 and beyond. Even more, the government allowed itself to send a letter to the municipalities on 10 October, which would happen in the future without taking into account what could be done with the average in the Budget Implementation Act, without the amendments that could be adopted to make the Community Financing Act acceptable. But the law is not acceptable. In short, this government, in particular the Modern Centre, has decided not to listen to what is particularly the SDS Group and also in the Nova Slovenija Group about once a year to be sent to the Committee on Home Affairs and Local Self-Government to help municipalities to listen to them. But no, this government is doing the opposite. Throw all those letters we received from the Community Society of the Congregations into the basket. All debates by Members, all questions by Members – we do not get answers. Sirs, if this is your policy of local self-government, then I suggest you read yourself the European Charter of Local Self-Government and leave local self-government alone until one government comes into power that will listen to the municipalities and local self-governments. We'll be in the SDS against the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u11	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Left Party Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u12	Thank you for your word. We will also vote against it. I don't have much of a musical hearing, and the task of politics is not to listen to or not listen to anything, the task of politics in constitutional parliamentary democracy is that it comes from the Constitution, from the laws adopted, from the ratified, notified documents that I will not be too long. [[…]] You didn't have to listen to the previous government, no matter what. Unlike one of these rights, which does this once a year, there is hardly a session where I would not be burdened, or we are aware that as a legislative body which is otherwise adversaried by the Government, because Parliament does not accept the role that it should have, we almost still turn to the congregations. You know, a lot of people think I'm kidding because I say that the most ungrateful and challenging political role in Slovenia is to be mayor. And many want to act honestly as mayors, but because of your friends in the past, what they call skeletons fall. But somehow it runs into a deaf ear. Look, whoever wants to learn at least a minimum about this subject, whoever wants to be at least a tenth as busy as the Member of Parliament at number 90 and me can't support this law. Anyone who would like to read yesterday's magnetogram, if you weren't here already, anyone would want to listen a little more actively to the parent's body session or at least, say, to read in a magnetogram what Janko said yesterday, who did what he did to dissect the law and actually show where they are literally such that they can't go through, this law can't support. [[...]] It is also irresponsible when the next government and the division of ministries are composed to make this so important subject, after all, because most of some infrastructure development in the local environment we work and make, and often also in the way that I was taught by the Fishermen, by the way of a fishing percentage, to make one euro two. We cannot attach this to a ministry that already has one small trillion of some substantively different functions, which is once again the irresponsibility of politics. Of course, such things must be done by people who can think perplexity. We will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u13	We're voting. I'm breaking up. I did not think that there would only be explanations on behalf of the groups. So there's an explanation in their own name. First in the letter. First, let us finish the explanations in the letter, and then I will open the possibility that you will apply for explanations in your own name, according to everything. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u14	Of course, in the SMC Group, given that the law has been coordinated and prepared, we will support it. However, with the support of the law itself, the following must be said. Are we all happy with this law? No, no, no. Are the mayors happy with this law? No, no, no. Is there anyone to blame for this situation today? Yeah. However, this story began 10 years ago and they know this in those types of the best where they made a massacre on the local community with the idea of playing on a political story, as we say, our mayors. Is it possible to correct this mistake with a single amendment to the law? No, you can't. This is a problem that, of course, is felt by many today. Will the mayors be forever satisfied or ever satisfied with the law on the financing of municipalities? Never. Until they get 101% of what they can actually get. It is expected that the mayors will be happy and satisfied that the law is changing and that it is not granted and made fully equivalent that the situation of financing of all municipalities is impossible and impossible. The one who's discussing this today is, of course, bluffing 100 an hour. In fact, it is impossible to compare one small and large congregation or one middle or one developed or underdeveloped congregation and place it at the same level. That's impossible. To have such a situation, however, all those who have done so in the past are responsible. We can fix this situation, we can do what we really want, and we can finally provide the conditions for local self-government to say that it will get what it has to get for us, of course, because autonomy is measured through money, finance. Yes, we can, but we're going to need at least a mandate to do that. It is not true when some who speak and today say that they have not received answers for the analysis itself. Excuse me, how many times do we have to do the analysis that you've already done and have all these answers? How many times? I'm sorry. It's just a simple hoax. However, a certain compromise has been made and it is not fair and it is not fair for those today to explain that nothing has been agreed upon. For a number of things, through the stages of the adoption of this law, it was agreed and took a step back. This is what must be accepted, of course. The law needs to be changed, but slowly and gradually, of course also in a state of ability and the situation of what someone did wrong 10 years ago. The reasons are there in those types, in the formerly ruling party of the SDS, which made a sort of mess in the Law on Community Financing. Finally, there are also attempts at how they will develop the regions of the landscapes in a country which, of course, failed the piano because they were doing it politically and not on the basis on which we all wanted and expected. This is for the development of local self-government autonomy, I'm sorry. Write down all these mistakes. We'll back it up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u15	Procedural Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, chairman. My procedural proposal is that politicians with a long kilometre in politics, when they wake up, look at themselves in the mirror first thing in the morning for 5 minutes, but Mr Janša and Mr Jani are smiling in politics, and you can give me a reminder because of this, since when do I remember Slovenian politics. And it is the responsibility of all policies to build on knowledge and to take appropriate action from these skills. Because what Mr Jani has done now is, to put it mildly, unseemly. Beating someone else only, and I will not now defend the right to defend myself, it is a responsibility, and it would be a responsibility, that some politicians with such a kilometre, including being a member of the Ljubljana municipality, would help a new unfeeling party, who would also be unfavourable if five more mandates were to sit here because you are not studying, and constructively assists what you should do, to go into reforming local self-government [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u17	What's his connection? [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u18	the procedural proposal is that mirror at the beginning. [[…]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u19	There is no procedural proposal for that mirror at the outset. It's a procedural abuse. I would expect you to request a procedural colleague, Tanka, which he did. Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I don't know, sometimes you dared, when we explain the explanation to the voice, to say what the explanation of the vote is in your own name and what the explanation of the vote is in the name of the parliamentary group. I propose that you teach Mr Duck that if he has not yet understood that he has explained this, let him say what they think, let the other members of the group remain in peace. You are the one who is sitting and you are obliged to intervene not in the end, but also in such cases, because this is an eccentric nonsense that he is speaking. The same goes for your Mr. Möderndorfer [[adverts from benches]] You can if you want to be. [[…]] In such cases, when they stumble, when they criticize, when they point to history – at the time of discussion, if you take advantage of this, if you do not, then God help you. However, the explanation for the vote is an argument for the decision of the Group of Members. And I suggest that you gentlemen, who obviously, when criticising the SDS and our President, do this very well and you see nothing to warn them in one way or another, with a warning, but also because they have not learned within three and a half years what the explanation of vote is, remove them from the sitting. You can do a seminar for them, too. But once again, be consistent in your work, keeping the session going. Because what you do, what you do, is unsanitary. The government has had three and a half years, just like the coalition with all those who have been transiting through all these intermediate parties and stages to arrange what we have screwed up. You haven't done that much. Except that you signed an earlier agreement with the Municipality of Ljubljana in one term and that you are doing the same thing with the amendment of the law, you are upgrading what you did because it was what you did. You don't do anything else. But there's a lot of funding going on. That is why I am warning you, Mr President, that you are setting these matters straight and that you are leading the meeting in a manner that is appropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u21	I will. Is there another procedure, first I ask? If we proceed with the procedure, we will first take one break, so that we can wash ourselves and then proceed nicely with the explanations. Do you want the procedure again? I hope it's really procedural that there's no abuse, because then there's a second warning, and then you lose the opportunity to speak. [[adverts from benches]] Okay, you put on that one yourself, okay, I get it. [[adverts from benches]] Let's act like it's a start. First warning for non-disclosure. Dr. Franz Ducky, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, chairman. My procedural proposal is to follow the Rules of Procedure. Who listened to Mr. Tank before? He fought me first, how I didn't learn, and then he switched off and did the same thing, and he abused me procedurally. Look, I'm gonna say, a lot of bad things I do in this National Assembly and what I'm not proud of, I learned from SDS. I have learned most of this from Mr Tank, who has been in Parliament since 2000. If I'm talking nonsense, if I'm a bad student of this Parliament, you're the worst student of this parliament. Let's face it, and the great responsibility here is on you too, Mr President, to hold meetings in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u23	Now let's have a good time. One of the reminders you received, all of which were now procedural, are procedural abuses. Please, let's stop this. Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Group, first of all, I ask? It's not. I saw that the reasons were in my own name. Please all sign up, but not in more waves, but for once. If you've decided to explain, then tell me now. Check in. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, chairman. I won't mention anyone else. I'll only speak for myself. I'm just going to mention a lady who's not in politics that I really appreciate. The first lady of Ljubljana's Lacano School – Google who it is – said: “The opinion is not a natural state.” And in Slovenian politics, there is essentially too little opinion, which very clearly shows the proposal of this law, which has so much illogicality that at least one of the three mayoral associations will probably send it to the Constitutional Court. We'll have another one again, and it'll probably be the end of the term before we break this down, and then we'll have some more local elections, and some of the poor old unfortunates will have to try to improve the lives of all of us at this local level. Of course, I cannot support such irresponsibility, even if the party would like to order me to do so, because this is the 82nd Article of the Constitution. Now, if anyone else whistles at this, it's his problem, because they're going to weigh us pretty soon. However, I sincerely hope that we will take this subject very seriously in one of the following references. As a result of what a Member has previously mentioned, which I will not appoint, of course, all the congregations are not the same and cannot be the same, but this is not the case in this law, this reflection. Even in those analyses that we have received, we do not see this reflection. But from this reflection all modern reforms of local self-government, including in societies where there are slightly smaller differences between first, second, third and probably even fourth Slovenia by quality or inquality of life [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u25	A self-explanation of the voice, Mr. Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u26	Thank you, President. According to the European Charter on Local Self-Government, local self-government is autonomous and is the foundation of democracy. This European Charter has also been ratified by our country 20 years ago. Have the government and the congregations ever agreed on the average so far? Never. Has this government tried to harmonize with the congregations in this mandate? Yeah. There were EUR 522 available for the average, provided that the municipalities signed the agreement. If they don't, they'll only get €520. And what happened? Only EUR 520, even though it was for 522. Is that democracy? Is that the deal? This frivolous attitude of the government or positions towards the municipalities is all the time, as I remember. There's no democracy here. Whether the invitation to tender was so directed that the first person to arrive was first milling, and the mayors were waiting at Petrol's pumps even in the afternoon and Sunday evening, that the first one to go to the post office would be his application for the invitation to tender issued by the State. Isn't that a shame? Is that democracy? Now, in this law, you stipulate that if the congregations and the government do not agree, then the government itself will determine the average. Is this for marriage? Isn't that the same thing as the boss who wrote the book, the first point, the boss is always right, the second point, if the boss is wrong, is the first point? It's the same thing. The Left Coalition, the Left Government has forced the mayors out of Parliament, and I hope that under the flag of the right government, the right hands will come back. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u27	Well, it's over. Explanation of the vote in her own name, Mrs Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. I will not support this law because it does not solve the essential problems faced by the congregations. On our regional visits, we always meet with the mayors of a region, regardless of which party they belong, especially in order to listen to the problems they face in the congregation. And in this law, I have this feeling — instead of solving the specific problems that the congregations have to deal with, listening to the Assembly of the Congregations, it introduces some changes that no one is satisfied with and are not living. We are citizens also in small municipalities. And if anyone solves the life problems of citizens, it is the congregations that solve our specific problems. And there must be no difference between the largest or the largest congregation and those small congregations. I always argue that it is precisely that we have received many municipalities covering the entire territory of Slovenia that this is the most equitable development of Slovenia. And when I listen to the mayors, what they say is that ministries are unresponsive, we've been waiting ten years for municipal spatial plans, so we can't develop the congregation, there's too much administration. Have you reduced administrative procedures? Or you've reduced the tasks that municipalities have, and some are completely debatable because the administration accumulates. And according to my experience, there are relatively few employees in the municipalities compared to the ministries and they need to be effective. This law does not solve all these problems, so I will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u29	A self-explanation of the vote, Mr. Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u30	Thank you, President. I can't support the law. The law has a devastating effect on the development of local self-government. In fact, the law further strengthens strong centralised Ljubljana and all that falls from richly lined Ljubljana tables, somehow we get the people we represent, we can say, small municipalities that come from the countryside, from the outskirts of Slovenia. And under this government you further strengthen the first- and second-class citizens, as we can see, now you will share this law with the first- and second-class congregations. In this mandate you had the ideal opportunity to establish regions, you have a relatively large client, you can say coalition only three parties. See, after 2020, in the new European perspective, we will remain in the administrative area, we can say bare and bare, drawing on European funds is already catastrophic. After 2020, when European funds will go to the wider integration of local self-government across the border, in my territory with Austria, with Croatia, we will remain dry and barefoot. The law is ready for this, as Virant once said when he wanted to eliminate small municipalities, now through funding, through certain bureaucratic obstacles you want to essentially destroy small municipalities, which were the only counterweight of Ljubljana and were modestly demonstrating what can be done. On the one hand, the rich Ljubljana, living as in the Roman state, has a relationship with the Plebejci, who does not even know how the rest of Slovenia lives, and where the government of Mira Cerar gives this Ljubljana an additional 300 million euros for development. I wonder if there are first- and second-class citizens? There are. With this law there will also be the first- and second-class congregations. That's why, of course, I won't support the marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u31	Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u32	Thank you. I will continue there as a predecessor, for we have a similar conviction as to why I will vote against the law myself. While the Municipality of Ljubljana receives additional financial and material resources by amending the Capital Law, while Ljubljana receives a special agreement between the Government and the municipality EUR 300 million, on the other hand all other municipalities receive the Law on the Financing of Municipalities, where it interferes with the key financial mechanisms pursued by the municipalities, and this is an appropriate consumption and average. And unlike those who take, we are always on the right hand to give to the congregations. The amendment of the Law on Community Financing in 2008 was a serious attempt to bring all other municipalities closer to the Ljubljana standard. At the expense of one congregation, which then received certain financial resources elsewhere, all the other congregations progressed. With this law, the Left proves exactly the opposite political tendency. One law gives one congregation a special improvement at the expense of all 211 other congregations. And the saddest part of this law is that the real picture of all the effects, especially financial effects, of this law, will only be shown in the next term, only in the next term, when the most centralist party in this National Assembly in the size of one passenger car will it be shown how you have been able to destroy this local self-government in a single term instead of a serious debate on local self-government. I will therefore vote against the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u33	Even though the warning is still of interest, I will therefore give you the opportunity to reenlist. But now we all do. Otherwise, if there's another round, I'll take a break because there's too much. Please sign in. Explanation of the vote in its own name mag. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Representatives of the executive branch of power, Members and Members of Parliament, nice greeting! I must admit that in this explanation, both on behalf of the representatives of the sent groups and on behalf of them, I can say that we are experiencing quite a disappointment, especially because no one has touched the part in which we are changing this experiment. This is typical of this National Assembly, which, through political debate, is allowed to speak at all times and on average. The fact is, local self-government is what it is. The fact is that in 1994 the congregations were divided into 58 administrative units. The result is the same as it is, and the fact is that political will is not to remove or implement the constitutional provision of the provinces. As for the change of law, I am obliged simply to explain in my explanation what that substance is. First, to prevent lowering the basis for calculating the average amount due to inflation. Then the Court of Auditors’ decision that we are committed, the Government is obliged to take into account the comment on this subject. Then a change in the co-financing of the communities of respected colleagues from the Italian and Hungarian national communities. None of us have touched on this in our debate and we are obliged to listen to them in this matter as well. And what is a change that allows in the current state also co-financing of joint administrations, and the fact is that I am disappointed, because some Members always talk about the average, but the average usually represents half of the income of the municipalities. In the Republic of Slovenia we have municipalities that do not collect their original income at all. It's a reality. That is why I believe that this amendment to the law needs to be supported, and I also support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u35	An explanation of the voice in his own name, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u36	Thank you very much. If the financing of the municipalities were to be done in the way that citizens are taxed, then the law should be different. In this country, as far as tax laws, income or anything else are concerned, we are all in the same position, in the countryside and in the cities. Even if we do so then on what is then returned to the local environment, we should do so according to the same criteria. That is to say, pay and ensure proportionality for all citizens, all citizens, regardless of where they live. This would ensure their equality. However, in the case of local self-government, these things do not stand that way and are not done that way. We have segregated congregations, that is to say, we have done something different. In addition, agreements are adopted for some local communities where additional funding is provided. It is clear that the richest congregation, which, in principle, can cover all its obligations from income, still receives additional funds. However, those congregations that cannot do so are not even guaranteed what the law should provide for funding and resource coverage. Such solutions cannot be supported. Nevertheless, at local level, even in the countryside, we must build water pipes, roads, sewerage, all that big congregations have, and there is no tear in this law from what you have adopted by amending the Constitution on healthy drinking water. There's nothing in there for the local area. In addition, many municipalities were part of the Municipality of Ljubljana, including these new municipalities. The city congregation left them macadam, without water, without electricity, and so on, only now are the local communities regulating these things. In short, normal funding must be provided. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u37	I'm asking if there's any other explanation for the voice in your own name. No, no, no. Then I ask you to take your seats so we can vote. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 37 for them and 31 for them. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 31.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Amendment of the Law on Amendments and the Supplementation of the Drivers Act by Emergency Procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Left Party, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. In the first part of the session, there are the darknesses that I cover in Levica. If anyone has a problem with that, they do. This marriage is one fine example of a stunt that politics should not afford. Why? I mean, it basically looks so benign. You know, certain things, budgetary, certain tides are supposed to go on purpose, something else is redistribution through the budget. What is the transport culture or non-culture in Slovenia, which you probably co-create in part also Members and Members who do not use excessively for the sake of public passenger transport, we know. We have an agency that is supposed to deal with this and at a meeting of the parent working body, otherwise it turns out that little old data has been said by the gentleman who did it, in fact it has turned out that a bad tenth of this agency is devoted only to prevention. As I have already said, when I explained my position, there is one very simple rule in the organization’s theory — two thirds. When you go over two-thirds of the budget of a paying agency subsystem, for basic depreciation, for having toilet paper in the toilet and not continuing, such a subsystem of the agency cannot carry out its basic mission. We have too many such matters in Slovenia. We may also have them because you can park your political quotas somewhere. In fact, we need to take serious action in the next mandate also by opening up that we have something just that we have something that people have chess and that they do not carry out this activity is irresponsible budget management. The United Left is seriously dealing with money, because you know, after all, I always mention these pennies on behalf of the Left. We will be absolved in this case, because this is some issue that needs to be addressed. But this is a problem where I hope that the next Prime Minister will also say: "I wish by the end of my term that the sale of new cars will fall to half." And I'm not going to explain to you why. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u39	Is there any other explanation? We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 45 votes in favour and 22 votes in favour. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 22.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Conditions of concession for the Exploitation of the Energy Potential of the Lower Sava by Emergency Procedure. We shall proceed with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendment tabled, which we shall carry out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled on 15 May. 11. 2017, which is published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to the new Chapter Transitional and final provision and a new Article 4a. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Left Party Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. In Slovenia, when the election approaches, it is usually by increasing the use of concrete and that asphalt bases work very quickly. We have an accident here at these lower-level power plants that this is the first time that goes directly from the financing budget because you have destroyed energy in the meantime. Hanžek mentioned yesterday actors who were doing this together in TES and it was about crossing almost all the old political roads. Just concreteing two power plants on the Lower Sava will cost almost a quarter of a billion from the budget. Without putting something in there that we call a power plant, which makes electricity. Of course, since the elections are approaching, this kind of power plant at least wants to be predicted in the Central Sava. I understand Sausages and Suctions, but for a quarter of a century it was known that some mining and some story was going its way and then I should study on MGRT what those people would do there. I said on behalf of the Left that we should actually stop and think about all these things. After all, we have received a craftsman of the year who works very high-quality Francis turbines for small hydropower plants. In this way, responsible policy should think and pursue energy, as is the case in Central Austria, where, of course, there was a major resistance of the energy lobby at the beginning. Where they go seriously, locally, energy self-sustainment. And this is also related to what we discussed earlier about congregations. But of course not, because we have a pleasant political intersection, and I will not mention, Mr Tanko, in explaining the voice of some Members from those parts that belong to a wide range of customers, you are driving this concrete forward. You also pursue it to the detriment of Slovenian tourism, because flood protection can also be performed in a different way from that of the beautiful villages in the course of the Sava. In short, it is a matter of extreme irresponsibility where the meeting is irresponsible, unfortunately, I will say modern-centredness with what is called the right hand in Slovenia, but in fact it is a pragmatic thing not to say. That's why we're actually going to vote against it in Levica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u41	Is there any other explanation? We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 66 votes against 3. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have put an end to the vote on the amendment and to the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. I note that the Second reading assembly has adopted an amendment to the new Chapter Transitional and final provision and a new Article 4a of the amended proposal. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this article? We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would have made the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 66 votes against 2. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 7th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree amending the Framework Decision for the preparation of the budgets of the State sector for the period 2018-2020. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the motion for a decree, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly could not be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the motion for a decree. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 25. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 25.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree on the Real Estate Management Plan for State Administrations, Judicial Authorities, Public Institutions, Public Economic Institutions, Public Agencies and Public Funds for 2018. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 15. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 15.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree on a Real Estate Management Plan for State Administrations, Judicial Authorities, Public Institutions, Public Economic Institutions, Public Agencies and Public Funds for 2019. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the motion for a decree, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 18. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 18.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree on the Real Estate Management Plan for the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the decision motion, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 16. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 16.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree on the Real Estate Management Plan for the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia for 2019. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the decision motion, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 16. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 16.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 12th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree on the real estate management plan for the State Audit Commission for 2018. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the decision motion, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 17. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 17.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 13th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree on the Real Estate Management Plan for the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the decision motion, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 18. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 18.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 14th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree on the Real Estate Management Plan for the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia for 2019. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the decision motion, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 17. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 17.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 15th item of the agenda - the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree on the Real Estate Management Plan for the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the decision motion, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 16. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 16.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree on the Real Estate Management Plan for the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for 2019. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the motion for a decree, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 48 for them and 17 for them. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 17.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree on the Real Estate Management Plan for the 2019 Anti-Corruption Commission. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the motion for a decree, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 49 votes in favour and 17 votes in favour. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 17.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 18th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree on the Real Estate Management Plan for the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia for 2019. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the motion for a decree, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. 79 Members and Members were present, with 49 votes in favour and 18 votes in favour. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 18.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 19th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree on the Real Estate Management Plan for the Advocate of the principle of equality for 2018. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the motion for a decree, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. 79 Members and Members were present, with 49 votes in favour and 18 votes in favour. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 18.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018. We are moving on to a decision on the general part of the proposal for amending the budget. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 47 votes in favour and 28 votes in favour. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 28.]] I note that the general part of the proposal for amending the budget has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the specific part of the draft amending budget. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 11. 2017. We are moving to the budget user 1611 of the Ministry of Finance. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members to the Sub-programme Payment of Rights. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 35 votes in favour and 37 votes in favour. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are transferring to the budget user 1811 of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We decide on the amendment of the Left Group to the Sub-programme Development Cooperation and Humanitarian Assistance. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Left Group Dr. Matej T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u42	Thank you, President. We will, of course, support this amendment in the left hand side. It is, however, a proposal to increase funds for international development cooperation at the expense of the funds to be used to open an embassy in the Kingdom of Morocco. It seems to us that the opening of this embassy is not really necessary to make an unnecessary contribution because Morocco is in the last place after the trade with Slovenia and the other Maghreb countries. Morocco also does not plan the reciprocal opening of the Embassy in Slovenia and, given the volume of the exchange we have, also the structure of bilateral relations, and there is in fact no serious reason for us to do so. The only benefit will be to a company owned by the Honorary Consulate of the Kingdom of Morocco in Slovenia and so on will not have any other effects. Of course, the relationship between the Kingdom of Morocco and the inhabitants of Western Sahara, the so-called Sahrawi, who have been living for almost 40 years in some kind of apartheid, is also at stake, racial discrimination, which is institutionalized, in addition to the fact that the Kingdom of Morocco exhausts their natural resources. This is why we propose that the funds should be redistributed and redirected to a more efficient purpose, and this is precisely the achievement of the objectives we have set for international development cooperation, so we are talking about this 0.33% of GNI. This objective has been confirmed several times by Slovenia, including by a new resolution on international development cooperation and, of course, these funds could be used significantly better in this way, but not because of the various interests we are opening up an embassy that is actually unnecessary at this point. We will vote in favour of this redeployment.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u43	We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 11 votes against 62. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 62.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the budget user 1912 of the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Protection and Rescue. Decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Sub-programme Operation of the Protection, Rescue and Assistance System. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u44	Thank you, President. We will support this amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party. It's about voluntary firefighters or their equipment. We know that even within the mandate of this government, especially in October 2014, there have been major natural disasters, the accident never rests. We can boast in Slovenia that we have well-equipped firefighters, that they have good equipment. Of course, for which it is not a country to be responsible, on the one hand, the municipalities that finance firefighting equipment from their budget are the most deserving voluntary firefighters themselves, who collect money and, of course, citizens and citizens who help them with their contributions to buy equipment. This amendment is aimed at supporting firefighters who are collecting money that sacrifice their free time. It's not a luxury, it's mostly that basic equipment, that they're also safe when they're exposed to saving people's lives and property. If we are always full of beautiful words, when something is done, when it is necessary to take pictures of them, let us today give a little less words and a little more action. Let us support this amendment and allow further development of voluntary firefighting in Slovenia. At the 9,6 billion budget, I believe that 2 million, ladies and gentlemen, is indeed the minimum amount that we can use and that the items we are taking from will not be known. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u45	Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Member of Parliament? No, no, no. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, chairman. Regardless of who put it, regardless of which party suggested it, I am essentially responsible for the policy and will support this amendment. Nor could I live if I did not support him, literally, because he is one of my ancestors, my great-grandfather, one of the beginners of a serious modern fire defense in Slovenia. Anyone who doesn't believe in it should go to my beloved mother Metlika and look at the museum. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u47	We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 39. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 1914, General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to the Operational Action and Preparedness Sub-programme of the Slovenian Armed Forces. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of the Christian Democrats, Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. For the sake of rationality and, as you know, we have tabled two amendments here by Members of New Slovenia, and I will explain the vote of the Group of Members for both amendments together. We all know that due to the long-term undernutrition of the Slovenian Armed Forces, more resources must be provided to the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces. Together, these two amendments weigh, if I may say so, about 66 million. Warnings or assessments by the President of the Republic, i.e. the Commander-in-Chief of the Defence Forces, require immediate action, in particular with regard to the equipment of the soldiers and military infrastructure and the operational activities of the Slovenian Armed Forces. The fact is, the weapons and equipment have been used, the warehouses are empty. Today we have 7 000 689 members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, 6 000 826 in permanent composition and 863 in contractual reserve. Ladies and gentlemen, security is a value and security costs as well. We will, of course, support both amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u49	We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 49. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are also deciding on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats to the Slovenian Army Infrastructure and Equipment sub-programme. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 50. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 2130 of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to the Sub-programme Support for Technological Development Projects. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of the Christian Democrats, Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u50	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this is an amendment that raises funding for research and innovation by 20 million. Today we are facing terrible technological progress, I doubt that this is followed by government policy; I do not know if it is even aware of what is actually going on, how we will live in five years' time. I don't know if anyone's even into it. We used to have a Department of Technology. We don't even have a Directorate of Technology today. We are at the bottom, ladies and gentlemen, at the bottom of the European Union after investing in research and development. These funds must be from public resources, i.e. from the budget, this is what this amendment is talking about, and, of course, private funds. I am talking only about research that has an application value in the economy, so it is an economy. There is undeniable evidence that the path to economic progress and competitiveness is strongly linked to increased investment in research and innovation. It is also evident that the differences between the European Union countries with the economic crisis have deepened. The process is going to the detriment of Slovenia. The innovation system in Slovenia is a worrying failure both relative and absolute. Some countries around us, for example, the northern neighbour literally exploded after investing in research and development. If we don't realize it and obviously don't, in a little while, we're gonna have a severe headache. Do we really want our citizens here in Slovenia to be just lon arbitrators? Forgive this Germanism, but I believe you all understand that. Has anyone in this coalition, above all, in the government ever considered what this terrible technological advance means in Europe and the world? We don't have gold mines, but we do have, I'm sure, good people with knowledge. We need to know how to make use of this knowledge, apply it in our economic sector, that's where the money grows. We will, as we say, support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u51	Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? Explanation of the vote on behalf of Mrs Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u52	Of course, I will support this amendment and I would like it, and I would like other Members to support it. Here we often talk about how low wages Slovenian workers have, how low pensions are given to Slovenian citizens. Why? Because we also have low added value jobs. Because they actually don't earn that much for a higher salary, even though they work and work and still can't live. Research, development enables jobs with higher added value. We're totally behind. Our best doctors of science have to go with the belly behind the bread abroad. How is the Slovenian state, Slovenian science, the Slovenian economy deprived of it? I will support the amendment because I believe that we must invest more in development and new technologies, because this also means better development of the economy of Slovenia, better jobs, higher wages, better pensions.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u53	It's obviously still an interest to explain your voice in your own name, so please sign in. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Violet Tomič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. I will support this amendment of New Slovenia. I fully agree that unfortunately in Slovenia we have too many controversial, some cheap jobs with little added value, that our employees work for less paid jobs, sometimes even in environmentally unsustainable conditions. Investing in development and new technologies, as the previous woman has said, allows us to make jobs with greater added value so that our employees can work in better paid, better valued jobs, which will result in greater security in age. We know how hard our pensioners are living. If they are paid as much at the time of employment as most are unfortunately full of Slovenian employees, then we can expect a long-term real social bomb, because our pensioners are already living hard today and in the future we see an even worse picture. That is why I support this amendment of New Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u55	Explanation of the vote in his own name, Mr Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Maybe a few more numbers so someone doesn't think we're talking. If we look at how much we invested in innovation research and development from public funds last year, there are around 145 million here. Sweden invested 4 billion and 150 million in research and development last year. You'll say, of course, Sweden is bigger. Yes, it is, but if we convert head-to-head investments into R & D, Slovenia should invest 830 million, not 145, in this example of Sweden. And let's go a little closer to the northern neighbour again, Austria, this investment is about 2 billion 800 million. Again, if we project this to the number of people in Slovenia who are about 4.3 times smaller than the population, we should invest in research and development between €600 and €700 million in Austria. And what else do we find? We find that we have a practical divide between science and the economy. There is no systematic investment. There are, however, some occasional instruments. The funds do not cover the entire development chain. In addition, we also need to speak very openly and out loud about the degradation of Slovenian science. Older researchers are no longer competitive, middle researchers are apathetic and have no chance because there are no projects, no equipment. And the younger researchers split up. Where's the other half? We have an excellent Slovenian professor, a young professor, world-renowned, we can say, at Stanford, he also advises, among other things, the European Commission. I don't know if our government ever invited him for coffee. I will, of course, support this amendment of ours.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u57	Explanation of the vote on behalf of Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u58	Thank you for your word. 15319, it's not a microphone test, it's my research code. There is something between us that still has the code of the researcher and, of course, saddens me, I thought that this government would be more serious about this issue. In these good three years, some people have also doctored in between. Unfortunately, I failed to write another doctorate, and this is the biggest defeat in my life when I was divorced, because I didn't have time to work in Parliament. An even greater defeat in my life is that we have not taken science seriously in this reference. Not just applied science, you know, we would also need a humanist, I don't know, president of the Defence Committee, president of KNOVS. We'd also need one serious humanist for a finance minister, you know. We would need a lot more input into basic science to make our capable mathematics, including someone who is abroad, develop their own Slovenian cryptography. It's a little bit of a misbehaviour that my colleague used to talk to me about, so it doesn't fly on it, you have to watch the NNP. What does NNP mean? The NNP is looking there, not at the territories where it works for too little wages, but if we talk, we live in capitalism, we haven't read exactly where Marx's profits are going, and just through all of this we're also developing some autonomy of young researchers, not that they're within the reach of old bosses, which some of you have been, some of us have had luck with mentors and tutors, only so we can move our economy somewhere further. That's why, of course, I'll support it. I hope that in the next reference we will have a much more serious minister or minister involved in science, as well as the MGRT.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u59	Is there any other explanation? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 40. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Local Development Infrastructure sub-programme under number 1. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group Mrs Suzanne Lepi Šimenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u60	Thank you so much for saying that. We will support this amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party. What's this all about? We want the Haloz area to be allocated EUR 5 million in 2018. Let me remind you, honourable Members, in the spring of 2015, in the National Assembly, we have unitedly supported the Committee's decision, with which we have in some way committed ourselves to allow the Haloz region to develop. A set of measures has been taken that apply to working Slovenia and not only to Haloze by the working group, but there is no effect on this measure. Therefore, in the SDS, we believe that the only solution is to allocate specific financial resources to the Haloz area. To this end, we propose €5 million in 2018. We will, of course, support the amendment. We are aware of the fact that this is a matter of municipalities that are essentially under the average of development, both Slovenian and European, that these are areas where many young people have moved to be areas where agricultural land is growing. On the other hand, it is an area with exceptional potential, it is a highly quality, geographically-quality wine-growing area and, of course, they need a special incentive to achieve this potential and development in the area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u61	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of the Christian Democrats, Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We in New Slovenia will support this amendment. According to the budget deficits, at 9 billion and a half and more money is 5 million change. This is about Haloze and it is also about respecting the decisions of this National Assembly, which has decided and decided that development projects in Haloza will be financed. Our esteemed colleague, Susana Pretty Šimenko, is here among us the 90th largest Battle for Halose. It works everywhere with one calm tone, it comes to the adoption of the National Assembly or the competent working body of the conclusions, and then the illegal state is involved because these decisions are not respected. So who in this country is the government? Who? We are therefore not representatives of that people who have power in this country, ladies and gentlemen. I can actually say that with every amendment. And once again it is one less developed area, for an area on the periphery, it is again connected to the centralisation of Slovenia, etc. etc. Again, this is linked to inconsistent regional development. There are always a thousand excuses for not supporting people in those regions that have problems with life, having problems with plumbing, with sewerage, with roads. I'm almost embarrassed to say this in the third millennium, what the ancient Romans had long since graduated. The new Slovenia will support this amendment because we want to help Haloza with at least these five million.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u63	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Left Party Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, chairman. Of course, it is probably not the same between us, who would not agree with what has been said so far about the situation in Haloza, about the need for help from Haloze. One fact is that coalition policy does not hear that. He can't hear us, who were born in villages that we dug our own plumbing, planted telegraph drugs, built our own infrastructure. I'm just old enough to do that to know. We also had a debate yesterday, today about local self-government, but you know, the problem is that such noises in Slovenia are huge. And we had or have had some previous governments, coalitions, calls of the National Assembly to take decisions on aid to Pomurje, Pokolpi, Maribor and other things, but new teams come, and this is not done, or some bits are obtained there, and then we are finally satisfied with these trinkets even in Maribor. However, if we were to read legislation a little seriously, we have a legal option for three congregations. Is that right? We never took advantage of those third ones about congregations with special status. We have a law on coherent regional development, which also says something. And there these things should be opened up, seriously thought, even what formulas to turn a little bit around, and all these hallucinations in Slovenia should be helped and encouraged by projects that are interlinked so that money does not squander. This is the way to handle it. That's what's keeping us here. Of course, we are essentially for help and for Belarusian halloza and hallozam Halozam and Cossacks and Hallozams at Pohorje and Hallozam, hallozams, that I will not continue for another 40 seconds. And I hope that the next call of the National Assembly will come to this because I say, but you know, the ideal in this society should be such that no matter where you live, you have the same rights and duties and opportunities to co-create. That is also what our Constitution tells us if we can read it materially. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u65	Is there any other explanation? We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 41. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to the Local Development Infrastructure sub-programme under number 2. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u66	Thank you, Mr. President. I am extremely grateful to this well-respected assembly that this spring it unanimously supported the amendment of the Law on Development Support to the Pomurska Region. It extended the validity of this law until the end of 2019. In this law we have also ordered the Government to adopt an amended programme to promote the competitiveness of the Pomeranian region in the period 2010-2019, and the Government has done so at its 148th regular meeting on 14 September. And then when I go to see this document on page 43, I see that the government is planning €2 million for 2018 for €45 000 427 to promote competitiveness. As you know, we also wrote in the law that it was a total of EUR 33 million. And then, when we go to look at the plan for next year, the year 2019, when the law shuts down, I see that summa summarum is in the budget, I'm looking at a development plan, that together there for two years there is 840 thousand too little money. And I'm sure you understand that I have to take this. For this year, I am missing 480 thousand 427 in the Development Programme Plan. That is why this amendment of New Slovenia. Of course, I ask the Minister responsible for the implementation of the porous law, and he says, look, there will be enough money. I can trust him, but I can't believe he won't be a minister anymore in 2019. We don't know. And I have to take this. Dear colleagues from the Ministry of Finance explain to me that there is this money on some other items, but we Members do not see it. That is why I have already proposed at Saturday's budget meeting and at Friday's budget session of the Committee on Finance that once the next composition of the National Assembly by the Ministry of Finance will receive budgetary documents, of course in electronic form, but in such a way that we can browse through items so that we can go, as it is called, to mining data mining, so that we can go into depth so that we can do some analysis on our own. Because, see, those who support this budget today do not know if these items you see are such and if they will also be so after the adoption of the budget. That's the problem. I regret that I have to say here, as far as can be seen from the development programme plan and from this amended programme to promote competitiveness, I can conclude that the Government has decided not to respect the law. We are back on the issue of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u67	Is there any other explanation? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 43. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Sub-programme Effective Marketing and Promotion of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 46. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the budget user 2330 Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to the sub-programme Rural Development. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u68	Nicely greeted! I think that in the National Assembly we are aware of the importance of both rural development and the incentives that are needed if we are to achieve some appropriate and stable self-sustainment somewhere. The area of rural development seems to me particularly important in terms of creating the new jobs we need in Slovenia, these are green jobs that are also encouraged through the European Commission and the European Union. Thus, in New Slovenia, it seems unacceptable to shrink or reduce rural development. Our amendment allows for greater and better development, especially in the light of the provision of our own food, which also means some state sovereignty that the country has its own food. It seems to me that it is increasingly important that we encourage and enable people to stay in the countryside and survive from this. Therefore, it seems to me that our amendment is also about some of the guidelines set out in the field of agriculture in the direction that it actually implements the words expressed in the National Assembly, which are enshrined in our strategies, but the budget has not supported this. That's why I'm expecting and I want your help and understanding here as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u69	We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 43. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the budget user 2431 Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Infrastructure. First, we will vote on the amendments to the sub-programme Management and the ongoing maintenance of the road. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors under number 1. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 40. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors under number 2. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 42. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors under number 3. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 43. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors under number 4. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 43. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to a vote on the amendments to the Sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Unaffiliated Members under number 1. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 43. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Unaffiliated Members under number 2. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 44. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Unaffiliated Members under number 3. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 44. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors under number 4. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mrs Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u70	Thank you. In recent years, new railway infrastructure has been built in the railway area on the route Celje–Poljčane–Maribor. Of course, all the cargo needed for this rehabilitation was also transported by state roads. Of course, these roads also suffered severe damage, including the export of the Dramalje-Ponikva-Loče motorway. It is a state road, which is also a compulsory road, when accidents are on the highway on the route of Celje–Maribor, and is in a state which in fact no longer deserves the name of the state road, but rather than any Macedonian local road. We note in our area that this state road is in a state where, in fact, it does not only cause material damage to cars, but that it is in the past and also in the future, there will be accidents with human lives. Today the road is in a state where, in fact, it is no longer able to maintain even the bank of the road itself, in certain places it is no longer asphalted, but is flooded with concrete. This amendment essentially implements the words of Mr Gaspersic, who, on my parliamentary questions, said that there will be a reconstruction of this road, which has been in the budget since 2008, said that there will be a purchase of land in this year, but that has not happened. In particular, the budget does not allow this. In the following year, only 50,000 are earmarked. The funds move from year to year in the budget, we are now in 2022 when the reconstruction of this road is to begin. In the Government's explanation why this amendment is not supported, it is that money is needed for the public administration or for the General Secretariat, because there is some money to be taken to reconstruct this road. That was our proposal, too. However, if we know that today the government has announced that it will raise wages by 20% in the public sector, including cabinet leaders, then it is clear why they cannot take money there. At the same time, I can also point out that they will also raise salaries for hospital directors who have made losses in recent years. So there's money, money for the reconstruction of the road, the minister's been there, I think, three times, but it's just not. It's not about millions, it's about 300,000 euros. I expect here by at least one coalition member to vote in favour. I would also expect the support of the Prime Minister. In fact, the Prime Minister takes this road at least every other weekend, if not Saturday and Sunday. I ask that this amendment be supported. We will definitely support it in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u71	Is there any other explanation? Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Mr Bojan Podkrodšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u72	Dear President of the National Assembly, thank you for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues! Of course, I too will have great responsibility to support the amendment proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party at the initiative of the colleague Godec. Dear Members and Members of Parliament, in particular Members and Members of the Styrofoam. I was going to remind myself of the Halose amendment, because I was sure that this amendment would be confirmed, and I didn't answer. Let me remind you that many times when we meet in the halls or sit on coffee, we say to ourselves: “For God's sake, Styrians, let us step together on a project.” You have not been able to do this at the Halose Amendment, so I invite you to do this on this road, so that I will not repeat myself, which often works for transportation, when the Celje–Maribor road is closed. Here people live on this ruined road and under very difficult conditions. Dear Members, Godec and Kolesh, and regardless of the political definition, we have sat together and set ourselves the goal of regulating this road in this mandate. We accept today's last budget and honourable Members, all Members, especially from the Styrian work, ask you to press the key for because we have promised this to our citizens and citizens who live on this road and who use this road every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u73	What explanation? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 30 votes in favour and 42 votes in favour. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors under number 5. Peace in the hall, please! We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 49. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors under number 6. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u74	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen! It is the Hotemaže–Britoff road, the unfortunate section that you all know well, where you drive from Kranja to Brdo on one side or from Jezerska on the other side from the border crossing, and the interstate crossing to Kranj is where the road ends in the middle of the field. And in that short intermediate section it passes through villages and this unfortunate section is in the voice as a section with the most fatal victims and severely wounded children on a kilometer road in Slovenia. We gave all the permits for that road years ago. It got complicated because someone went to the lawsuit. Today there are no more reservations, there are substitute facilities built, everything is bought out, everything is ready, only a little good will would be needed to speed it up. It is only €807,000, which is actually small compared to the billions of Slovenian budgets. This crumb can save a child, it can save health, ask yourself how much a child’s life is worth to you. We'll vote in the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u75	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Members or on its own behalf? Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Mr Branko Zorman.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u76	Thank you, Mr. President. I will vote against this amendment. Against the fact that, of course, this road section that my colleague mentioned, I know very well, but of course it is very populist to propose such an amendment and, of course, to explain it in such an emotional way and then to talk about some numbers. A colleague well knows that you can't do that for that kind of money. However, I can tell everyone that the activities in this section are going according to plan and we are close to building this section. So this amendment of his is not necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u77	I'm thinking about when I'm gonna take a 15-minute break. Yeah, yeah. If we start using this for discussion, I'll take a break. The explanation is an explanation. Explanation of the vote in its own name mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u78	Thanks again for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen! This amendment is still needed because it can accelerate construction for a year. It is a section that is fully prepared, for a minimum amount, there are no large infrastructure facilities, no bridges, tunnels or anything like that. It is only a matter of good will that, after already purchased land, for which all permits have been issued, everything has been obtained, the road is made as quickly as possible. If it saves human life – is it worth EUR 800,000? I'm sure it is, but the health of the children is certain. And it's no populism, it's a responsibility to people.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u79	We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 49. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors under number 7. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. Gorenja has a pearl, which is a symbol of Slovenia, and this is Bled. The pale soul and everyone who goes there know you very well in traffic, especially in that transit traffic, which then goes further in the direction of Bohinj and other settlements in this area. That is why two roads need to be built. One is the one that's already being built, but it represents, frankly, just a drop into the sea, that's the northern bypass. But the key is the South, for which there is still redemption to be done, to prepare everything for its construction, because there is going to be a lot more expensive. The money provided for here by this amendment would allow all these preparations to be accelerated and this Slovenian symbol and pearl breathes with full lungs. As soon as possible, because he deserves it. Because of the development interests of Slovenia and because of the symbolism Bled no doubt has, because of beauty.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u81	Any further explanation on behalf of the Group of Members forwards. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Mr Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u82	Thank you, President. Last year I visited both sections of the road, and we talked to the director of the Municipality of Bled, who said that the northern bypass is no longer a problem, because the minister promised to finish it by the end of 2018. According to the budget and according to the NRP, we see that it will not be completed in 2019 as well. Now we're talking about the southern Ljubljana bypass. Probably the ones you're driving, not for the weekend, but mainly during the week, when the worst traffic stops are in the morning and then in the afternoon, you know what the situation is. One of the best hotels in Slovenia, the Grand Hotel Toplice, the five-star hotel, the south side can't even be marketed because their trucks pass the windows, only two to three metres across the rooms. In short, half the hotel is inoperable, the sale of rooms can only take place on the north side and the time is now, not only do we boast that the Bled island and Bled are being placed on every promotional package, which we then sell and advertise abroad, but we will speed up the actual construction of the southern Blaze Oblast by 2022. I'll support this amendment myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u83	We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 46. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors under number 8. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 47. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors under number 9. We're voting. I'm breaking up. On my own or on behalf of the Member of Parliament? On behalf of the House of Representatives. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u84	In the case of user 2431 The Slovenian Infrastructure Directorate, we would like with the amendment to redistribute funds for the organisation of public administration in, i.e. 2 million funds for the construction of the last Treaty or the last third of the Northern Lenart, one of the largest projects on Lenart, which we have been working on for more than a decade. For the last quarter, or a third of this northern bypass, it takes 2 million, about 2 million, that would be a reasonable sum. This road will significantly relieve people who are driving to Radgono, who are also driving into the Lenart industrial zone. With this last third of this section of the carriageway, they would also somehow unload the road from Cmurek through the industrial zone further across the southern border to the Croatian border, which is followed by many tourists. It is also important that this money, so that we can start building next year, because the road through Lenart is narrowing down, we can say that it is dying for transit traffic, which will mainly make it difficult for trailers and many passenger vehicles to continue their journey to and from Radgono to Pomurje and Prekmurje on local roads. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I ask you to confirm this amendment. You will take an important step towards facilitating the lives of people in the Slovenian Gorica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u85	We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 43. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors under number 10. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats Mr Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u86	It is the transfer of the state road through the village of Mirna, past the settlement through the industrial zone. This is essential because all extraordinary transport from the Mirska valley behind this bridge has to take across Celje to Ljubljana. This is related to the wider area of Sevnica, the entire valley of peace. By moving this road, we would have built one part of the third development axis, which, I'm sure, will go down this valley of peace. Two fellow Members, Director of the Directorate from the Ministry of Infrastructure, are also serving here. And I had to make the amendment, which I don't drive on this road. I think these 4 million and a half are also an investment in the development of the economy of the entire Valley of Peace. We contribute more by building this part of the road than by giving it directly to investors because there is a release of development itself. The government answers that the aim is to build this road in 2019, but the budget for 2019 and the NRP do not show this. There are funds foreseen after 2021. I think that's unacceptable. My friend, if I were the leader of a delegation, and I drove there every day for so long, I'm sure it would have been built by now.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u87	Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Member of Parliament? Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u88	Thank you. In one of the previous laws, the Law on the Financing of the Congregations, we discussed the importance of local self - government and the role of the congregations. Unfortunately, in 2017 or even in 2016, at the meeting of the Ministry of Mr Gasperšić, Members were sitting, we are also sitting here today, sitting quite a few mayors and it was promised that the Mirna Oblast will be built in 2018. This road is very important on the route Posavije–Peace Valley–Trebnje–Ljubljana. And there we have a narrow throat, where everything stands, even when the whole traffic across the whole other route normally runs. Because it's a tight throat, we all have a problem. But we don't just have a problem with Members, because there we sacrifice our burdens, there is a problem mainly for the economists. There's a lot of trucks stopping there because they can't get past one bottleneck. Respectable all those who will vote against this today are invited to look at this narrow throat, where not only do some people risk their lives, but above all risk the lives of economists who have been hoping for decades that this narrow throat will be removed so that important companies from Sevnica, Mirna, from Trebnje can use this road as they should. While local roads are being built at a width of 13 meters, there is no State hearing to build a normal 7m wide road. It's sad. Since we also want this narrow throat removed from the SDS Group, we will support the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u89	Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Group? Are there more who would like to do it in their own name? No, no, no. Explanation of the vote in his own name, Mr Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u90	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, I will only support this amendment because it is an extremely important transport infrastructure, road infrastructure for the needs of the economy. I remember when I was a coalition Member in the 2004-2008 term, at that time we had terrible problems with road connections, Slovenia had already become a member of the European Union and we had practically 5,000 trucks, heavy ones, only those in transit. And then, before me, the gloomy economy threw a calculation in which they showed how much the gloomy economy lost at the annual level, losing at the annual level because there was no proper road or highway connection. This figure was then estimated at 2 billion tolars by the gloomy economy. This was the time of the Tolars. Of course, I simply believed that, and the then government understood that, and it did everything to enable us to make a highway connection to neighbouring Hungary and it was released on 14 August 2008. Politics must enable the economy to provide an environment, i.e. a road connection. Then do not interfere with individual economic operators, do not intervene, says neither the state economy. We advocate that the economy should be given and that all conditions should be made possible so that it can work. Because economists are very easy to lay on our hearts, they say, “Let us work!”
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u91	We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 49. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors under number 11. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group Mrs Ljudmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u92	Of course, I will support this amendment, which is the Krtina Circle. All those who are driving are driving along the Styrian Highway towards Ljubljana, we know that traffic between Krtina and Domžalů suddenly thickens during the most traffic hours. At that time, drivers are looking for all routes to Ljubljana or elsewhere. That is why this intersection in Krtina is extremely busy, this is the main road against Moravčam, the new settlement is there, a part of the agricultural area, in short about 200 meters from the export of Krtina, and during this time traffic is very dense or at this point and can even be slowed down by exports from the motorway. I don't understand why the intersection is planned here and not the intersection, since we know that the circles are more flowful and even safer because the traffic needs to slow down. And that is why I have proposed a change, as well as additional means, for this very intersection, to turn it into a circle, thereby increasing the flow and increasing security. It's not that big a deal. By agreeing with and wanting the surrounding population. I think it would be good for traffic safety.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u93	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Left Party Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u94	Thank you for your word. Look, it's just like how much noise there is. Now that some politician, whom I very much appreciate, about some cross I also have there on the Koroška road in Maribor some circle and a rather unfortunate experimental case, I was three times just before they killed me. [[…]] Maybe that money should be replaced at that point in the agenda when we were talking about traffic prevention. The Mariborians also want to arrange roads, traffic and all. I also wish that the order now blocked on Slovenian railways due to the successful lobbying of Siemens would move forward. You know, we can't talk like this. We should categorize and evaluate the most risky sections, we should look at what's half built, and it would probably turn out to be mag. Grims more like Branko Zorman, and somehow make up your mind. You know, regulating traffic is not like Slovenian politics, I hope to say, but it doesn't fly on you, Ludmila, paw. Traffic management is basically a serious stochastic issue. Chains of Markowski. And we have some good companies in Slovenia that can do this, but they work more abroad than we do. This is an area that I have just mastered, and I am also talking about it on behalf of the Left, because I have also been dealing with this area for quite some time, and I have had to learn about this area, because I do not like to speak differently from many, something in mind. I believe everyone would like to restore it. But if we need it, and then we do, here's because you're going to America, like the American Congress, every congressman has his own budget line. And with 9.7 billion each of us, let's be modest, there will be a lot of money in Slovenia, and every Member or Member will have 100 euros, that is 9 million, that is 9.7 billion, and everyone will be responsible for what they will give. Then it would be a serious matter, because this is now a charade, something will back up, something won't back up, and let's stop saying what. [[…]] Then Han will say that maybe that traffic sign doesn't fit him, that he's turning into a home street, and he's going to make an amendment. Let's be serious. I'm sorry, Matjaž. Thank you. That is why we will be held in such a vote, because this is simply not serious. I appreciate all Members and Members, unlike most of you who probably don't appreciate me, but the elections are held in some other and different ways in serious parliamentary democracy. But I'm sorry that I pissed now because Ludmila was just talking because I probably should have someone earlier.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u95	Mrs. Ludmila Novak wanted to do it on a procedural basis.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u96	I protest, even though I respect my colleague, Duck, that he went into polynomization with me or with anyone. It's a voice explanation. Just like everyone else, we usually go about our business in areas where we are home that we know where the problems are, and I'm not challenging anyone who's taken up his field. I am not talking about some x road, but about an extremely important state road, in the immediate vicinity of the highway, which is important not only for Moravian Valley, but also for Zasavje, it is said, for an extremely important road where the problem is. I suggested a solution, I said in my explanation why. And please, Comrade Duck, don't argue in this explanation of the amendments. So, please, if you could warn your fellow Member.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u97	You're also right, Mrs. Ludmila Novak, but in the last sentence he apologized to you. If you agree, we'll continue our work. There's another procedure. No, no, no. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Mr Zvonko Lah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u98	I'll support this amendment, too, but I'd like to get involved in the thinking of my buddy Duck. I have already pointed out on the committee itself that over 500 items of open projects in Slovenia have been on road infrastructure for 30 years. There are many intersections where there are open projects on state roads, which would be significantly better if the circles were built now. The municipalities usually finance both accommodation in space and projects and then prepare all countries, virtually for a building permit, and then the country should make this investment. I said yesterday that we should go one step further and that we should give this money to the congregation for this investment, and these buildings would be built at least half the price if it wasn't even cheaper. But once we have to make an end to this and start cleaning, not that we have 500 projects, where for 500 projects, the locals hope that they will be built once, it will drag on for 20 years. For the first time, obsolete projects would need another solution, and that's out of the question. Otherwise, we have been waiting for a programme for the development of state roads for 20 years, where the country should make a programme where the priorities, what we will build, due to other developments, including economic development. Investors hope and believe that within a few years a road or electricity will be built, they start building, and then things stop because the country has not done what it has promised. How much damage there is in this area. That's why I agree with the explanation, in part, but it doesn't work out any different with us than it does with everyone trying to get their own way through.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u99	Explanation of the vote on behalf of Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u100	Thank you for your word. Once again, I apologize to my colleague, who I gave her the opportunity to tell her again what she used as an experienced politician, and she did not have a reminder to do so. Look, we have just over 6,000 settlements in Slovenia, a little less than 6,000 people live. I'll explain to you on a case that my colleague Rajic from SMC told me. Norway is far richer than we are, and oil has surfaces and has no highway between Oslo and Bergen. She's gone. Since they decided not to do so, they have a good airline connection, they have a good railway connection. That's how you can save yourself. It would also be a responsible policy where Lach and I agree on what to look at and what to overwind. But you know, when I'm driving from Maribor on a train past Zasavje, because everything is fine for me, but once I have to drive, say, to Hrastnik, but if I want to go to a colleague I mentioned earlier and get a beer wrapped up, then I wouldn't have to drive my car anymore, but then there's another story. And this particular section is a very dangerous section. That's right. But the way this is handled is wrong. And this wrong way has been going on in Slovenian politics for 25 years. It's the same as the way it's wrong to force itself into building some hydropower plants. But you know, we Styers from Maribor even give us two, three-flow hydroelectric power plants a hand in between our power plants. Let’s face it, and let’s be responsible! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u101	Is there any other explanation? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 44. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors under number 12. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 46. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors under number 13. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u102	Thank you so much for saying that. With this amendment, we propose that funds should be made available for the installation of the Ribnica Oblast in 2018. In view of the fact that Ribnica is an industrial centre to further build new industrial capacities also in Kočev, Yaskawa started building. It is perfectly normal for you to provide approximately €7.8 million of state resources for Yaskawo, at the time of the traffic jams in the Ribnica area, to provide some of the money for the accommodation and then also for the construction of the Ribnica dam. I think it is inappropriate that the most difficult freight traffic, transit traffic goes through one of the largest primary schools in Slovenia, that this traffic passes through kindergartens, sports facilities, and this in fact poses a great threat to all these users, and above all is a great danger to school children. Given that the coalition is now rejecting all the amendments tabled by the series, I suggest you take at least that time for these amendments of ours, as well as for how you are for Ahmed. 30 thousand people are tied to this bypass, says the whole Ribnica and Kočevje, daily traffic is strong over 10,000 vehicles, even up to 15,000 vehicles in the corners, and I think it is right that we deal with these traffic issues in parallel with the development of industrial capacities. Finally, there is likely to be a timber centre in this area, which is again directly linked to transit, cargo and the transport of voluminous goods. I expect the coalition to be able to support what we are going to do, it is said, a development project, a project that is a security project, and to initiate a placement process, and to build this facility, which is more than strictly necessary. We will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u103	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u104	Of course I'll support this amendment, too. I often drive around this area and see how difficult traffic is at these ends. And since we are also so slow in completing the construction of the Ljubljana-Kočevje railway, the road is therefore so much more burdensome. Even though we have important companies there and now we have seen that Kočevje will also get new companies, traffic will increase from day to day. I think that the construction of this siege is absolutely necessary, so of course I will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u105	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Left Party, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u106	Thank you for your word. Look, Mr. Tanko said, "It's normal." And then he went on. Someone who listened attentively, and if he was in the first grade of elementary school, it was clear to him that this placement was very abnormal. And the gentleman is also about someone who is not Ahmed, but Ahmad has a name, he spoke in between, so please don't interrupt me. And there's more than enough space to place them in. And that's because of this policy that we've been looking at for 25 years. We don't know how to place something minimally complex. I'll hold on, but this thing has to be solved as it had to be solved, I don't know, over the long way you've been when the trucks were driving. You should probably also think about where we had some degraded areas, where we have some infrastructure, where we don't have it, just a little "pull it out, pull it out," who's going to choose somewhere, we're going to "rug" somewhere, and then there's going to be a million problems, and then there's going to be a policy that's going to solve it, from that cool environment. It doesn't fly on Mr. Tank. There are ministries where we should arrange this, because we live in 21. A century. Here, there's an MP on number 90 who likes to talk about technology, about information technology, up and down, and everything can be looked at! Didn't you know there was a school there before? Who's responsible for this? “Hand” it from a shoal. Pika. Done.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u107	Well, well. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u108	No matter what quota it's from. No, the honourable President of the National Assembly, conflicts need to be opened and matters discussed seriously. This is a very nice example that shows [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u109	during the debate [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u110	This is not a debate. [[…]] That's an explanation for the voice, which nicely shows that we can't fit into space. Every policy can brag. We drew it, we drew it. But you're still bringing in the problems that we're gonna have to solve. We will also be sustainable in this matter, but let us give some basic seriousness to begin to develop in this house and in some processes. Almost nothing happens outside the environment and space. We're caught in time. And it's high time someone else came to know about it in this byte. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u111	One thing I will find, however, before I give my word ahead, is that certainly these explanations of vote take longer than the debate on these amendments. That's what I was warning you about when we talked about it. I'm taking 15 minutes off. We'll pick it up at 11.45.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u112	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members! We continue the adjourned session of the National Assembly. We are at Amendment 13 of the SDS Group. Is there any other explanation for the voice? Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u113	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Look, what's going on at this session about explanations of voice is that you get a little out of control every time. If you have any special tolerance for Mr Trček and his omissions, then I suggest that you tell us this, that others, too, then we set our discussions or explanations differently, not to an equally low level. In view of the fact that I have already proposed to you in the previous procedural proposal that you take the time and that those Members who even have a doctorate have not yet won what explanation of vote means, you should learn about it. The more difficult a person understands this error or discussion because he has a parliamentary group from which Mr Trček comes, even the President of the Rules of Procedure Commission. It is difficult to understand that explanations of vote cannot be made otherwise. But I suggest that you be consistent in your leadership, not every time someone smiles a little and allows any of us Members to be discredited. If Mr Trček is the one in the National Assembly who is understood on all subjects from ah to ah to ah and is a professor for all in this House, then the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly need to be amended slightly to give him this exclusive right. You can give this initiative to anyone who can address it to the President of the Rules of Procedure Commission, who looks at it calmly and does not respond. See, if we want to go to a serious session, the adoption of the budget is a serious process, the amendments tabled are correct, if they were not, there would be no votes in this proposal, they are perfect, they are technically feasible, they are acceptable, the only question of a political decision is whether or not they are supported. And, Mr President, look, do what you can and must do like those who lead the session. If it is not possible to warn Mr Trčko in any other way than with reminders, remind him, but the third admonition means that he should be removed from the sitting. Or you may still have to do some tests before the vote, some personal testing, because there may be other things involved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u114	So we will continue in the same way that we have done so far. I believe that virtually one explanation so far has not been complete in terms of what this explanation is, so leave everyone else's voice alone without addressing, without asking, without these are actually the basis of the breach. [[…]] And now either you let everything go or you don't let anything happen. In view of the way things have developed, I must continue in this basic manner. This procedure, which is aimed at only one Member and is not entirely appropriate, I must admit. That's why I don't want another procedural one on your part in response to this. Is it possible? Procedurally, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u115	Thank you for your word, chairman. My procedural proposal is a proposal which I have repeatedly reiterated that the rules in the National Assembly apply to all equally under the rules of procedure. I have also said several times that the only two who somehow "fascow" part of the Rules of Procedure are currently absent from colleagues Kordish and I. I must repeat that the vast majority of the bad that I have learned in these three years have learned from the gentleman who spoke before. I counted when we had that famous meeting about Ivan Janez Janša, 29 procedural proposals Mr Tanko had, at 29 I stopped counting. 25 of them were an eclectic violation of the procedural question, and at four, if I were you, the chairman, I might have looked over at one and a half. In short, I don't know if I'm just the person that I'm referring to, but unlike any people who are sometimes more in Parliament's bar than in Parliament, Duck doesn't have any problems testing any way. You can also test sex for me what some of your previous references have asked of some Members, which speaks more of you than of me who have been in the National Assembly for 17 years. In short, let's take the meeting forward in accordance with the rules of procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u116	Explanation of the vote on behalf of Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u117	Thank you for your word. I will support the amendment, because the bypass along the Ribnica is on the third and development axis, and as we know, the development axes are one of the priority investments or the direction of the country where it will invest money to allow for faster and more equitable development. So the third A development axis is one of those defined both in the spatial development strategy of the Republic of Slovenia. It is also a remote road, so it is an international connection and also an extraordinary burden due to numerous migrations against the capital, i.e. against the capital. Investment is also an integral part of transport policy. The lack of planning for investments on the third and development axes was also noted by the Court of Auditors when it reviewed the implementation of the measures on the third and development axis, and it also has a basis in the Court of Auditors’ notice that it is necessary to approach, however, significantly more planned to regulate interventions on that road. Following the completion of the investment, the third belt of Piva Gorica was not even a single spatial act, or investment, put into space so that more serious interventions could be planned in the coming years. So it is in the spatial development strategy and this money actually allows all procedures to be accelerated and we get to the most urgent investments on this 3rd but development axis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u118	Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u119	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I have been waiting for you to respond to what Mr Trček has previously done procedurally. You haven't responded. His proposal was not procedural, but it was debate and accounting with some sort of thing. What is most embarrassing is that the one who voted against the Constitution accuses someone of having had a procedural proposal in the event of a warning about the nonsense that took place at the time. And a lot of you were there, almost 70. Mr President, I propose that you respect the rules of procedure, that procedural proposals are procedural, that explanations of vote are that debates are debates and so on and so forth. Given that you are in charge of the session, that you have once easily shared reminders and I do not know what else to do with all SDS Members, I suggest that you do the same for the Members of the Left and also for all the other Members who are working in the National Assembly. Adoption of the budget is a serious matter and here is some gentleman, although he comes with a doctoral degree with the FDV, but he cannot afford everything that falls into his head. Let him solve problems where he can, if something doesn't fit him in the budget, he could propose amendments and so on. The rest of us did this, the traumas that it causes him to solve elsewhere and in other times. I suggest that you warn him that he adheres to the way the amendments are intended to be adopted, to explain his voice, and that you also conduct the meeting with some respect and protect the Members who are the subject of such amendments, I will say, “tracy” amendments or comments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u120	Is it necessary? You're acting the same way and now you're asking for protection. Yes, you do exactly the same and demand protection at the same time! Well, that's amazing! That's really amazing. One and the same all the time. I'm giving it away, but this time I'm breaking up for an hour. No! [[…]] She'll be half a day. Until 12.35.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u121	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue the adjourned session of the National Assembly. We stayed with budget user 2330, Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, under the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors number 13 to the Sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads. Is there any other explanation for the voice or anything? Technically, Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec first.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u122	Thank you very much, President. I'll be back about half an hour before the break. I would like to point out some important difference that has taken place in this ping-pong, if I may call it, and in that there is a small but very important difference between what France said and what my colleague Tanko said. And that is that the debate, because there was no procedural proposal, Comrade Tank, was a personal discredit. On the one hand, the personal discreditation of one particular Member and, on the other hand, the discreditation of one of the educational institutions in that country. I understand your tolerance in such cases, where you say once you allow such abuses, you must allow them to all, but I think you must pay attention to these little nuances in spite of everything as President. Thus, I – and this is my procedural proposal – in some way call on you, forgive me if it may be presumptuous to simply respect what the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly are, which make it clear that you are the ones who establish order at this meeting and those who also explain the rules of procedure, which is also a partial response to the invitation of my colleague Tank to speak as President of the Rules of Procedure. I hereby give the floor to the Left Group that we are not and will not abuse procedural proposals, but I expect that this meeting will continue without any similar complications after this interruption. I also expect that the provisions of the Rules of Procedure will be strictly and seriously taken into account.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u123	Explanation later. Is there any other explanation? Explanation of the voice in his own name, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u124	Thank you so much for saying that. I will support this amendment. As you have already seen from the debate and explanations of some Members, including other political parties, it is likely necessary to adopt this amendment if anything is to be provided in terms of coherent regional development, in terms of the accessibility of the area. It is unusual for the government to invest and encourage investment in an environment with additional budgetary resources and, on the other hand, does not guarantee the development of the transport infrastructure that would follow. On the other hand, I must say that I am also disappointed that the Government writes that the amendments proposed for transport infrastructure are technically feasible. But it doesn't agree with the source where we're taking the funds. But any source we write, any parliamentary group, is always inappropriate. It is difficult to understand that it is not possible to change things by even €50,000 in the 10 billion budget. Nor does God do such a good budget as your government does, that nothing can be completely moved. However, the problem is that we sometimes take in the Ministry of Public Administration that the Minister or the President of the Government has set his personal secretary three classes of higher salary, by the way. It is said that Mr Krajc has advanced from 55th to 58th grade, which means that this gentleman, who is an official, has a higher salary than most members of the National Assembly. That wasn't the problem. However, if we propose any change, the problems are already in decimals. In short, I suggest that you also list your criteria and your vats a little bit and that you approach understanding for the needs of other environments as well as just [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u125	First of all, given that I have received information about this last specific one — what is happening in the government has absolutely nothing to do with it. So I would ask you not to provide such information. But I have to cut in such a case if I find out about the information. If not, I don't know. Is there any other explanation? No, no, no. Then we vote. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 40. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors under number 14. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u126	Thank you so much for saying that. This section is also, as colleague Weber said earlier, part 3 of the developmental axis, it is said, a key transport vein from Petrina to the Ljubljana Bar. Virtually all the transit traffic going in both directions is going along this road and it is a route that goes through larger settlements, there are about 700, 800 people, many school-bound children, unordered sidewalks, unordered bus stations and so on. It is an amendment where this process of construction would essentially be realized. The Government also writes here that the amendment is technically feasible and rejects it only because it interferes with the planning of the Ministry of Public Administration's obligations, in the premises probably of state officials and in the salaries of state officials, which are likely to be substantially rectified in a short time. The reasons you're defending are very bad. On the one hand, it is easy to provide 120 million for various migrant matters, do and get 200 million for 2TKK, where we have two employees and no things are happening yet. In such cases, however, it is difficult to find 100, 200, 300 or I do not know how many thousands of euros, in a particular case 200 000 euros. That's incomprehensible. In order to approach the proposals put forward by parliamentary groups and only to vote in this way, something is wrong here. It's wrong to finance in this country, it's wrong with the departmental ministry in this country, and it's very wrong with the government as a whole in this country. If he doesn't recognize the danger, if he doesn't know where to do anything, but insists only because he's supposed to take on someone who's going to spend money on things that won't have any effect on security or on GDP or whatever, it's extremely unrealistic. The reasons given by the Government are also unrealistic. We will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u127	We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 46. [[The vote was 30.]] [[And against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors under number 15. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present and 27 votes against 47. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the vote on the amendment to the sub-programme Maintenance of public rail infrastructure. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to this sub-programme. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 26 votes in favour and 48 votes in favour. [[The vote was 26.]] [[And against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 2550, Ministry of Environment and Space. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to the sub-programme Water Management. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 26 votes in favour and 46 votes in favour. [[The vote was 26.]] [[And against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members to the Sub-programme Conservation of Biodiversity and Protection of Natural Values. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members, Mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u128	We will support our amendment. But I just want to remind you again what this is all about. It is the Triglav National Park, which is the co-financing of municipal projects which must be carried out in accordance with the Triglav National Park Act. 80% should be provided by the State. From 2010 to today, she has guaranteed nothing. Remember, dear colleagues and colleagues, that we have unanimously all, from there to there and all in the meantime, supported the decision that the Government has made to ensure this in the budget. We unanimously confirmed this decision. I hope you will respect your decision and support this amendment today.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u129	There are 76 Members and Members present, 29 votes in favour and 44 votes in favour. [[The vote was 29.]] [[And against the 44th.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are also deciding on the amendment of the Left Group to the Housing Activity sub-programme. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the leftist Group, Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u130	Thank you for your word. We have proposed this amendment because Slovenia has no housing policy for 25 years. The consequences are known to all today. But my generation can feel them the most on the skin. So that's the one who can't make it to the apartments now. Buying an apartment in what urban center in Slovenia becomes utopia, rent can also take half your salary, above average, not average, or more. What's the state doing? There are 790 000 euros in the budget for the national housing fund for the year 2018. What can we afford? Three wallets in Ljubljana could buy out the National Housing Fund with this money. At the same time, this national housing fund acts as a de facto real estate agency. You know the story of Green Gaj in Brdo pri Ljubljana. Apartments there are sold for 3,000 300 euros per square metre. If you want to buy a 38 square suit from a national housing fund that is supposed to be marketable, you will pay 140 thousand euros. The most expensive kind house costs 820,000 euros. Can anyone in this room even afford this? I don't think it's even here, except for the rest of the people of this country. The only way to solve this is to invest significantly more in housing policy than we are investing now, and from the housing fund we make a housing fund that will correct the market, will reduce rent prices and purchase apartments. However, he did not maintain them, as last time the competent minister answered my question, and he is also praising the head of this fund, Črtomir Remec. We have therefore tabled an amendment with which at least some of the small part begins to soften in the budget and we add additional funds to housing policy. I hope you support the amendment. I think I've described the reasons enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u131	Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u132	Thank you for your word, chairman. In fact, I agree with Mr Tank, who said that this budget is better than God could have done, even though I am on a bad day of agnostics and a good atheist. Today is a bad day because we are acting irresponsiblely towards the budget. This country and society, let us be clear, have not only not established housing policy in 25 years. Whoever tells me that Slovenia has a housing policy, in the way that the gentleman wanted to discredit me, would send it somewhere, and I will not – there is no serious policy for less than 40 years. While we are talking about the budget, this is also extremely and macro-economically irresponsible. The Slovenian construction sector, as it has not been divulged, could have enough work not in such a crazy way that housing prices are so crazed, but in a way that it builds better architecture and urbanism. This could be his added value. Responsible policy must enable people from whom we will eventually have pensions if we do not get hit by a stroke – what? In order for them to get to their homes in a cheaper way, and that difference, the money that they essentially throw into some concrete, and if they want to live with dignity, they have to work all day, and they can't even be in that concrete, they give for something else. This creates new jobs, ladies and gentlemen! But we're one of the most forested countries, and we're concretely unconscious. The chairs are now made of wood. I'll vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u133	We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 9 votes against 64. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 64.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 2611, Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs, equal opportunities. We decide on the amendment of the Left Group to the Monetary Social Assistance sub-programme. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the left-wing group, Luka Month.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u134	Thank you for your word, again. Following the conclusion of the Labour Committee, I think that in June this year, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, after eight years, has redesigned the calculation of the minimum cost of living in Slovenia. It was found that at least €613 per month for an adult single person. If we subtract from this minimum resources for recreation, cultural consumption, insurance, housing, we get a huge existential minimum of €441. You all know how much the minimum social benefits are in Slovenia, EUR 289 at the moment. The ministry now promises to raise them to 75% of what has only calculated that there is a bare existential minimum in this country. This is also appropriate in the budget. We have therefore proposed an amendment in Levica to provide sufficient resources in the budget so that anyone who works incapacitated, permanently unemployed, can receive at least as much money as the minimum cost of living in Slovenia is calculated by the Ministry as the minimum cost of living in Slovenia is a bare existent minimum, i.e. EUR 441. We have economic growth, and not only our parliamentary group, but Members of all kinds and colors have already drawn attention to the fact that economic growth should also begin to be known in people's well-being. This should start with the poorest. The measure proposed in the budget may begin to serve not only some, but all. We'll support Amanda.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u135	We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 9 votes against 66. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 66.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to the Programme sub-programme to help the family. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u136	Next week, November 25th is an international day against violence against women and children. We have recently adopted the Law on the Prevention of Domestic Violence in the National Assembly. It all speaks of this and also of the situation in Slovenia, that it is necessary to help those who need help. Families, women, and children also need help. Therefore, we have found to the 2018 budget review that the budget on this item does not follow the promises made in the adoption of the Law on the Prevention of Domestic Violence. I'm talking about a subroutine program to help the family. The increased resources in this item would actually allow the introduction of some of the preventive programmes that we have talked about exist in order to ensure them in the light of the situation and the situation in society. However, it seems to me that too little has been done on this side, and there are virtually no funds available in the future. Certainly, all your colleagues and colleagues agreed at both the committee itself and the plenary session when we adopted the law on the prevention of domestic violence that more resources should be allocated for prevention. There are currently too many resources under the existing budget aimed at curating. We must prevent, not eliminate, consequences. An asset worth a good million and a half would certainly be a real step towards preventing violence against women and children and preventing domestic violence in Slovenia, which is a very pressing problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u137	We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 47. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're moving to budget user 2613, Labour Inspectorate. We decide on the amendment of the Left Group to the Labour Regulatory and Control Sub-programme. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 5 votes against 60. [[The vote was 5.]] [[Against 60.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 3330, Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members to the sub-programme Support for Research Infrastructure. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 42. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Left Group to the sub-programme Support activities in the field of education and sport. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 15 votes against 57. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 57.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to the implementation of primary school programmes. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 45. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 3340, Ministry of Culture. We decide on the amendment of the Left Group to the sub-programme Protection of Cultural Heritage, archiving and librarian activity under number 1. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the left-wing group, Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u138	Thank you for your word, Madam President. In Levi, we will support our amendment, where we propose a million-euro cultural heritage allowance, archiving and library activities, and we will also support the NSI amendment, which increases funds on this same item. We propose that the funds should be moved from the heading Payment of contributions to the EU budget, because we are confident that the funds planned under this item are more than they should actually be paid. We know and realize that increasing these funds will not solve problems immediately and overnight. This sector has suffered a great deal of damage and this damage is practically irreparable quickly. That is the case with living culture, because we are witnessing the departure of artists and creators abroad or many are also requalified as well as in the cultural heritage where our infrastructure is failing. Since 2009, funding for culture has been declining, so we have come to almost 50 million euros less. And these cuts have reduced the quality and extent of cultural production, and in particular have endangered the economic and social situation of workers in culture. Due to the lack of resources, the standards of protection of movable and immovable cultural heritage have also been declining in recent years, which has greatly exacerbated the state of cultural heritage, but which is a public good of the highest importance. You'll say there's no money. In the biggest crisis, many European countries have increased their cultural budgets. These include Scandinavian countries such as Denmark, Finland, Sweden, as well as Malta, Belgium and Austria, to which we like to compare ourselves, our northern neighbour. These countries are aware that investing in culture is not only an unnecessary cost, but an investment with a large multiplier effect. Our proposed amount of EUR million is small. It's small because we hope it will make it easier for us to get your support under the proposed amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u139	We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 14 votes against 55. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 55.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to the sub-programme Protection of Cultural Heritage, archiving and librarian activities under number 2. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u140	Of course I'll support the amendment. We all know that in Slovenia we have quite a number of objects, cultural monuments, which are in very poor condition. I have visited three of them myself recently, but there are many more throughout Slovenia. The Castle of Cmurek or Trate, where the state owned this building, is now a museum of madness, but a more voluntary activity than indeed, where the state would carry out activities. The Dornava Castle, which is sadly failing, is an architectural pearl. Then the Studs, the Monastery, the Church. It's already in the antiques. This is where the Roman way went. There are huge opportunities for the development of tourism, and all of these objects are sadly failing. Why are they important? Slovenia is developing more and more tourism. In addition to having resorts to having natural beauty, I know that when I visit a place, I always visit a historical, cultural monument, because it is an added value to that region or to that place. Therefore, we should not ignore these monuments, but rather actually invest in reconstruction and give them to the right purpose. This would give the whole region new jobs, more tourists and so on. When I talked to the Ministry of Culture officials about this particular area, they told me that if we had 10 million more money a year, we could normally restore these monuments one by one. But we all know that the restoration of one castle or such a building from the 15th, 16th century is extremely expensive. But when this is done, this invested money can be multiplied several times, given what the region is doing, that place with this reconstruction. Therefore, I ask for the support of this amendment so that we can slowly restore these cultural monuments, a cultural heritage that, if it fails because it fails, will become more difficult to rebuild or will be lost forever.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u141	Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? Explanation of the vote on behalf of the leftist Group, Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u142	As I mentioned earlier, your amendment will be supported in the left hand side. We all know how important it is to take care of cultural heritage and how the restoration of cultural heritage raises the quality of life of a district, how through tourism all sectors come to life and how the multiplier effect is such an investment, which is also the greenest and most environmentally friendly activity. Cultural monuments are something we inherited from our ancestors. Here we should take full responsibility for their care and give them to future generations with full responsibility. It is not our right to allow these monuments to be lost forever because of some financial crisis. And you know, Slovenia should carry out its solidarity function a little better, because money is always wrongly redistributed. As we have already mentioned many times, the country should take care to collect taxes where possible and to give them where necessary. This is the task of the state, and so it should work more like Robin Hood, and unfortunately we who have read Alan Ford know that the super-hikov logic of this government is the opposite – it takes the poor and gives it to the rich. The cultural heritage is well nourished with us and the one that we should feed a little better. We also have a very, very low level of corporate income tax and no specific high value property tax at all, resulting in a huge budgetary loss of this revenue line. Capital taxes are only 3.3% of all tax revenues, although the European average is 7.2%. Here, let me remind you, there is a possibility of getting funds for those who are more needed, because by real real reallocation we will not be in such trouble if, oh, we cannot finance this now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u143	We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 43. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. This has finally ended with the decision-making on the amendments. We are moving on to a decision on the specific part of the Draft amending budget. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 50 votes against 26. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 26.]] I note that a specific part of the Draft amending budget has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the Development Programme Plan. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 50 votes against 25. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 25.]] I note that the development programme plan has been adopted. We have ended by deciding on individual parts of the draft amending budget. I ask the representative of the Government whether the state budget proposal for revenue and expenditure is harmonised. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance mag has the floor. Sasha Jazbec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u144	Dear President, the budget is harmonised. No harmonisation amendment is required.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u145	Since the draft amendments to the budget are coordinated, we are moving on to a decision on the Proposal for amending the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 as a whole. Another explanation for the voice. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats, Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u146	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! New Slovenia will vote against the changes in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018. In fact, these most important documents do not show where Slovenia wants to go, in which direction the development of Slovenia is going. That is why we are voting against it. It is not clear from these budgetary documents what the economic policy of this Government is, in fact, that we are voting against. And we do not have the strategic documents on which we should build these budgetary documents. That is why we are voting against it. We do not agree that every wind is good for the Slovenian boat at sea. Just that it's the wind. That is why we are voting against it. We regret, dear colleagues and colleagues from the coalition, that you were unable to make a minimum effort to have at least any amendment, at least one of the opposition parliamentary groups, adopted. We once put this exercise through and positively put it through. And it was a very good exercise. We regret that you will channel these nearly 10 billion for 2 million people on your own, according to your taste, according to the needs of the campaign. This is your responsibility, not least you have all the freedom and all the right. And the responsibility is solely on your part. We are against such a policy.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u147	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u148	In the Slovenian Democratic Party, complementing the balance of the budget for 2018 will not be supported for several reasons. We are convinced that this rebalancing of the 2018 budget is not such a success story as the coalition is somehow trying to represent and the government of Mir Cerar. The Fiscal Council also made comments on the draft budget. The surplus that the budget is supposed to show in 2018 – is only a single impact of the 200 millionth inflow of European funds. It must be said that the budget in Slovenia has been in surplus only once, when the Government was led by the Slovenian Democratic Party and Janez Janša. It should also be said that, instead of reducing the debt, the debt of the State is increasing compared to 2014. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that, given the economic situation and the economic growth and the higher inflows to the budget for more than EUR 1 billion of these major inflows, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia do not feel that they are being used by the Government for their benefits, not for pensioners, for public education and for health care. We believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that economic growth should also be felt by citizens and citizens in their wallets. Unfortunately, given the consumption of this government, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, we will not feel this economic growth on our wallets. You will be further burdening the economy and, last but not least, this government will remain in history as the first government to have not approved a single amendment proposed by the opposition throughout its mandate.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u149	Explanation of the vote to the leftist Group, Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u150	Thank you for your word. We won't support this budget in Levica either. The reason is simple. Economic growth should be translated into the welfare of people in this country. This budget is not going to happen. But there are two reasons. It is one that, despite the growth, surpluses, the profits we have in recent years, the state captures significantly less on the income side. If you compare us with other countries of the European Union, you will see that our taxes on property and capital taxes are practically on Europe's tail. There remains a huge reserve to fill the budget and invest in beneficial activities. But the other problem is with spending. The government says that no item will grow faster than the general structural balance, as it calls it, with the exception of one, and that is the cost of the military. We are not talking about the costs for the Slovenian army, but more or less about the investments that we will make to buy the weapons that we will use in foreign missions for NATO. Is this in the interest of this country? It's not. Is this in the interest of this country? It's not. Is this in the interest of these citizens? It's not. However, according to the Government, the promises it has made by 2025 will amount to EUR 1.2 billion for this purpose. On the other hand, if we look at the items that we have already discussed in the amendments. Housing policy of €790 000, social welfare, will continue to be received by recipients of social assistance just over €300. Pensioners, we've heard more than half of them are still on 500 euros. The budget is kind of a government work balance in a year. The last budget in the mandate is also somehow a balance between the reforms of this government which it has made in its mandate. Before us is a budget that will maintain a low level for pensioners, the unemployed, the young, on the other hand, will not eliminate fundamental social injustices. It is not right that someone who survives as a capital investor or who gives up an apartment is taxed substantially less than someone who works in that country goes to work and pays substantially higher taxes than those of his fellow citizens. After all, we do not see the development breakthrough that the government should have imagined in the context of economic indicators such as that it has in the context of such a conjuncture as it has received. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u151	Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? No, no, no. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u152	Thank you for your word, chairman. As I've said many times, as Luke said in a way, and someone else, the budget is basically a story if you can read it. Numbers are never just numbers. This budget is in fact proof that this government has not gone into what is absolutely necessary, given some of the changes that have taken place both in the market and in the environment. Some of the key reforms we are talking about. She didn't go into it if I put someone's metaphor in front of me to make life more bono for more people, the marines will understand what I mean by that. Probably in the last third of the next government's mandate, the next crisis is coming. This government should prepare someone who doesn't, but look, Duck isn't a doctor for everything, Duck doesn't growl, Duck does a lot of work and reads and comes the next crisis, believe me, and this government didn't do it, it didn't start with some guards, it didn't start with us again what happened to that Pahor government when we talked about how we'd, I don't know, jump on some train. But you know, in my limbs they say, "Trust in yourself and in your ears." And any government should be a little more serious in this sense. Next to Nat, PESCO is being established. What's up with the pesco? That, with what we will have to pay the American military industry, we will also pay the European military industry. I listened very carefully to Mr Cerar, who explained the budget. Another of his substantive emphasis was his commitment to NATO. If this is the second substantive emphasis in the Republic of Slovenia, complete the Item yourself. I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u153	We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 33. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 33.]] I note that the changes to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 have been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the 2019 supplementary draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the general part of the supplementary draft budget. Peace in the hall, please! We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 29. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 29.]] I note that the general part of the supplementary draft budget has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the specific part of the supplementary draft budget. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 11. 2017. We are moving to budget user 1318 Advocate of the principle of equality. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members to the Sub-programme Elimination and Prevention of Human Rights Violations. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 10 votes against 59. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 59.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the budget user 1611 of the Ministry of Finance. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members to the Sub-programme Payment of Rights. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 48. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the budget user 1912 of the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Protection and Rescue. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Sub-programme Operation of the Protection, Rescue and Assistance System. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, Mr Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u154	Thank you, President. We will support this amendment in the SDS. Now we have a retrial. Previously, we were too short for three votes to give these two million euros to the firefighters for next year. Let's be that much and give it to them for next year at least. Members of Bratušek, Hršak, Jurša, Germany, Weber, Wilfan, please, who have previously abstained to support this for 2019.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u155	Is there any other explanation? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 42. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 2130 of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to the Sub-programme Support for Technological Development Projects. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats, Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u156	Thank you, Mr. President. We will support this amendment. In order to be rational, I have already said in the budget documents for 2018 what this is about. This is therefore an increase, a minimum increase for research and innovation development for the sole needs of the Slovenian economy. What we watched five years ago in science fiction films will be reality tomorrow. Those who will be sitting here in a few years, maybe ten, I can't predict, no one can predict, they won't have their car in the garage, they won't have their car in this house, they'll be over this house, but they'll use the smart phone, maybe call the car to pick them up and drive them home, and they'll look at the mail on the tablet. It is one of the key decisions of this country's policy, whether we want to be “loon arbitrators” in this country, whether we are selling live power or whether we are selling knowledge. Technological development is moving with tremendous accelerations. For the time being, we are at the bottom of the European Union's investment in public money in research and innovation. And obviously we are not touched by the digitalisation of the economy or the digital society, obviously this government does not know the digital agenda for Europe, the readings, the digital agendas for Slovenia. So we are for technological development, we are for economic development, we are for jobs with high wages, we are not interested in minimum wages. To have high value-added jobs, it is necessary to invest in development, both through public money and through private development. This works as well as it works and is also in a larger proportion. We support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u157	We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 44. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Local Development Infrastructure sub-programme under number 1. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 45. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to the Local Development Infrastructure sub-programme under number 2. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats, Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u158	Ladies and gentlemen, we will support this amendment, and I promise to announce myself for the last time in relation to the Pomurian Development Act when the budgetary documents are being considered. If I compare government documents, the revised development programme, the promotion of competitiveness by the end of 2019, this is the year when the Pomurian Development Act is put out, and if I compare the development agenda plan, I simply see that there are no good 360 000 for 2019. The National Assembly has adopted a new Law on Development Support to the Pomeranian Region and I think that all 90 of us must first be interested that the laws adopted here are also being implemented. I really feel that we Pomurci are increasingly far from Ljubljana. Indeed, it may sound a little emotional, but the key will land on the label “plus”.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u159	Explanation of the vote in his own name, Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u160	President, thank you so much for your word. In the previous decade, we passed a law on Pomour, his development, in this hall. Members from then on from Pomurje and Ormož, we took a strong stand in the then government of Borut Pahor to enact this law and to give the Pomurje space a certain economic impetus for development. However, I must admit that I am concerned that there is no 300,000 and a few euros to close this matter. It's incomprehensible to me, and I think this money for Pomurje should be provided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u161	We had an explanation in our own name. Please sign up because there are more of you. Mrs Marija Bachič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u162	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I will also support this amendment, because we have been talking in the National Assembly for three years about our pomur law, which we have even extended twice. This is no longer what we want, because it is really a matter of monetary resources and we believe that these funds mean a great deal for Pomurje. This is how we expect this to happen, to come true, that we will definitively close the law of Pomur and we will also give other regions the opportunity to develop, as we would expect in Pomurje. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u163	The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u164	Thank you for your word. I am a spatial sociologist and I am also interested in how parliaments are regulated and how parliamentarians sit or sit. There are several parliaments where parliamentarians do not sit by parliamentary groups – Norway is one of such beautiful parliaments – but sit in the regions from which they come. I think we could use a seat order like this. Because then it wouldn't have happened that the Styrians on the Styrian side would have made a deal with us, you wouldn't have exhausted the Drava power plants or made it harder to deal, and then we'd come to Ljubljana, and I'm the only one in the opposition, and they're all in the coalition, and you'd get like the one who stood next to Ben Hill, after the "boom boom" head, and that's not going through. So we can't find 300 grand in almost 9.7 billion? And from that, a man would be stoned, Comrade Tanka, without any of the things you've done to me before. The 2019 budget, however, is the story of what the next government is supposed to be. The vector of the next government would be such that it would not find 300,000 euros for Pomurje. Now some MP would say shame, shame, shame. And I'd agree with her. I will vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u165	We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 29 votes in favour and 36 votes in favour. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Sub-programme Effective Marketing and Promotion of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 22 votes in favour and 44 votes in favour. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the budget user 2330 Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to the sub-programme Rural Development. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u166	The 2019 budget, I can say that we expected an even more encouraging budget in New Slovenia, but unfortunately we find that from year to year this government coalition is somehow balancing between years, what else could it do. However, it seems to me that the budget for 2019 is inconvenient, although I am counting on a new government to be able to correct this balance. Nevertheless, it seems to me that playing with rural development, so that next year it will rise slightly, this year it has fallen, then rises and then in 2019 it will fall again by 10 million, it is certainly not encouraging and it is not long-lasting. We in Slovenia as well as farmers, Slovenian food producers need a stable business environment, which means that for 5 years they can continue to know how to guide their farms, their products. I can see that with this budget you have simply left behind or encouraged some uncertainty among all these people, producers and producers. 10 million less in the rural development budget, it seems to me that there is such a large amount that it is simply not encouraging. Therefore, we propose an amendment in New Slovenia, where we would return to the 2018 level, says an additional 10 million, as far as the budget envisages a reduction in funds in this area. If we want to have some stable, reliable jobs, an enabling environment, we also need to have some long-term policy, not change every year.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u167	Is there any other explanation? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 45. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the budget user 2431 Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Infrastructure. First, we will vote on the amendments to the sub-programme Management and the ongoing maintenance of state roads. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors under number 1. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 44. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors under number 2. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 45. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors under number 3. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 45. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are also deciding on the amendment of the Nova Slovenija Group under number 4. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 16 votes against 46. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to a vote on the amendments to the Sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors under number 1. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 46. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors under number 2. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 47. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors under number 3. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 47. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors under number 4. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 47. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors under number 5. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 47. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors under number 6. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 47. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors under number 7. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 47. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors under number 8. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 47. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the vote on the amendment to the sub-programme Maintenance of public rail infrastructure. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to this sub-programme. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 47. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the budget user 2550 Ministry of Environment and Space. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to the sub-programme Water Management. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 44. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members to the Sub-programme Conservation of Biodiversity and Protection of Natural Values. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 44. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are also deciding on the amendment of the Left Group to the Housing Activity sub-programme. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 7 votes against 59. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 59.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the budget user 2611 Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. We decide on the amendment of the Left Group to the Monetary Social Assistance sub-programme. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 6 votes against 57. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against 57.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to the Equalization of Opportunities for Persons with Disabilities sub-programme. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u168	The year 2019 is the year we all set out here together to enter into force of the Law on Personal Assistance. Of course, I am pleased that some of the funds have been provided here, but the funds that the coalition has proposed with its amendment to our law and the extension of the communication allowance to the deaf and blind at an approximate value, such as our amendment. I think it's one million euros if I'm not mistaken. But the point is, if we want the Personal Assistance Act to really come into force and be, as you wanted, accessible to all, then these funds must be provided in this budget. That is why we are warning the coalition, perhaps this has escaped you from memory or from the tables, but if we want to have a functioning Personal Assistance Act, which was adopted unanimously in the National Assembly, then it is also necessary to provide the means for a communication supplement, which, dear coalition, has expanded with your amendment and thus has caused additional costs. That's why I'm counting on you to thank us for paying attention to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u169	We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 41. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to the Programme sub-programme to help the family. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u170	Thank you very much. There is also a lack of funding for 2019 if we are to prevent domestic violence and violence against women and children. In order to take a step forward on the basis of the legislation adopted in this government structure, it is also necessary to ensure that programmes that prevent domestic violence can prevent violence against women and children, including financially provided. This can be ensured when the budget is adopted. Now is of course an opportunity, not an opportunity, an obligation also for you to approach those words that you promised in the National Assembly, how you all advocate for the prevention of violence, that we have adopted such a law, and also to ensure the means that this will also begin in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u171	Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? No, no, no. A personal explanation of the vote, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u172	Thank you for your word, chairman. In Levika, we may not boast much, unlike the right hand, that we also work in the countryside. There is one form of violence that is somehow overlooked and forgotten, but is very often present in the countryside, not just in the countryside, violence against the elderly. I asked the Government about this in the middle of a mandate in a written parliamentary question. And somehow the answer showed that they didn't even know what I was asking them. It's not a story again, Duck is a doctor for everything, it's the story of Duck walking on the ground on our end of Styria. Of course I'll support this amendment. Some of this violence is also due to what some warn about the division of Slovenia into the first, second, third and fourth. Most of this violence happens in our families. While I was teaching the indicators of social development, I told the students, look if we're going to seriously look at the indicators, your family is the most dangerous. Of course, Mom won't be happy when you get home, and you'll say, "The Duck told you so," but that's the way it is. And your family is the most dangerous because of us, because we vote here and introduce systemic violence. And then to the man of the people's tongue is spoken "began" and is spoken over by him over whom he can speak. In short, less violence will also be with a much more agreed new composition of this Parliament. I will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u173	Is there any other explanation? We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 44. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the budget user 2613 of the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for work. We decide on the amendment of the Left Group to the Sub-programme Edit and Control in the Work Area. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with a vote of 4 to 57. [[The vote was 4.]] [[Against 57.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the budget user 2710 of the Ministry of Health. We decide on the amendment of the Left Group to the Investment Investment Sub-programme at the secondary and tertiary level. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Left Party, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u174	Thank you for your word. I hope this will be the last time we're on the budget. See, this is an amendment that is intended for the Maribor University Clinical Center at the starting point. Why? Too many times in this society and country, some of the previous compositions or part of this composition have been decided to be something, and then you forgot that something is that it also needs money. We can't just say, that's it and that's it. I will not now provoke a party whose prominent member has been the first UKC man for many years. After all, it was up to all the politicians you were there. A man who just has to do something you call it has very tied hands. It's very similar to the mayors, frankly. We are now moving from the next EU Presidency to the health line. There are only two ways to get to a safer Slovenia, which you all and we all like to talk about: a lot more intelligence and responsibility plus health care. Nor can you have a serious medical study – and Maribor is good and serious – if you do not have the money to properly develop the University Clinical Center. You know, whoever doesn't understand this doesn't know. We have a condition, if we go to see that we are second, third, fourth-rate citizens and citizens, we are paying for the same amount of money, but we did not have helicopter rescue and the UKC could continue to list the necessary medical care. I will not call on you to vote, but whoever on our side will vote against this amendment, finish the item yourself. [[…]] Of course we'll vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u175	Is there any other explanation? We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 14 votes against 54. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 54.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the budget user 3330 Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members to the sub-programme Support for Research Infrastructure. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 46. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Left Group to the sub-programme Support activities in the field of education and sport. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 12 votes against 58. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 58.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to the implementation of primary school programmes. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 48. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Sports Infrastructure sub-programme. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u176	Thank you, President, for your word. The last attempt to do what was done in each budget to support at least one amendment of the opposition. And what is this amendment of ours talking about? It speaks of 2 million more resources in 2019 in the field of sports infrastructure. When we discussed the balance of the 2018 budget and the 2019 budget on the Committee on Education, there were a lot of words about sport, athletes, sports infrastructure. In 2015, the Ministry conducted a survey among local communities and it was estimated that they needed local communities for their sports facilities, and so for those of the youngest, for primary school students, for higher education, for pensioners or, on the other hand, those who do amateur sports and those who need top-notch sports infrastructure for development, so that we could all boast together with Slovenian athletes if it was 800 million Euros of desire, there is only 2 million small drops in this great sea of needs in the field of sports infrastructure. Probably each of us needs some sports infrastructure from our local area. We've been waiting in Sevnica for the stadium. My colleague, Jean Mahnic, last said that they had two infrastructure projects where the state gave nothing, but it was not a primary school where the municipality was supposed to take care of it. In short, there is a huge need for the development of sport infrastructure, which is on average almost 40 years old. On average, she's almost 40 years old. Just today, when you drive home, look in your congregation, in your region you have some sports infrastructure. Moreover, remember the wishes of your mayors, your children, your pensioners, who would like to have at least a regulated sports infrastructure, and they do not have it. That instead of the sports stadiums running along the banks of different rivers, retirees, instead of enjoying the winter in closed sports facilities, exercise at home, each for themselves, and so on. EUR 800 million is a need for sport infrastructure. We only propose €2 million. That is why we have prepared this amendment for you in the SDS Group of Members, which we will also be happy to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u177	Is there any other explanation? We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 26 votes in favour and 41 votes in favour. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 3340 Ministry of Culture. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to the sub-programme Protection of Cultural Heritage, archiving and librarian activity. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u178	Of course I'll support the amendment. I thank all those who have supported a similar amendment last year because you understand how important it is to preserve our cultural heritage. We all know how many castles were burned during the war, how many important buildings, only in Moravč, three castles, a parish, in the neighboring municipality of Brdo Castle and so on. But now we have some such buildings, which are pearls of architectural and cultural heritage. Let's not let them go to waste! Many times I remember visiting the castles of Ludvik Bavaria, [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u179	Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u180	A lot of money, money then spent on building castles, getting the land so much on a bucket, but today there's a lot of visitors walking around, which brings money. [[…]] Of course, our castles will probably not bring that kind of money, but they have a history written down, a history of ancestors, a history of the place, and a great opportunity for future development. Therefore, if not for 2018 at least for 2019, let us begin to renew these architectural pearls more systematically, our cultural heritage.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u181	Is there any other explanation? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present and 25 votes against 42. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. This concludes our decision on the amendments. We are moving on to a decision on the specific part of the supplementary draft budget. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present and 49 votes against 25. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 25.]] I note that the specific supplementary draft budget has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision-making plan for development programmes. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 48 votes in favour and 23 votes in favour. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I note that the development programme plan has been adopted. We have ended by deciding on individual parts of the supplementary draft budget. I ask the representative of the Government whether the draft budget on revenue and expenditure is harmonised. The word has magic. Matthew Vraničnik Erman, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u182	Mr President, the draft budget is internally coordinated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u183	Thank you. Since the draft budget is harmonised, we are moving on to a decision on the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2019 as a whole. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats, Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u184	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! New Slovenia will vote against the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2019. It is interesting, ladies and gentlemen, that the budgetary discussions took place throughout the day before yesterday under very strange circumstances. You have divided 20 billion for two years by 2 million inhabitants practically at the empty hall. There were virtually no discussions by coalition colleagues and colleagues. We have been critical of the opposition, New Slovenia of course, we have been critical of budgetary documents that do not indicate the very clear direction of the development of the Republic of Slovenia. Apparently, this government estimates that every wind is good for her, only it's windy. The opinion of the Fiscal Council is ignored. It is commendable that the budget has a nominal surplus. However, all criticism deserves this budget because it does not meet structurally the requirements set by the National Assembly. We wonder what our simple citizens have from this economic growth, about which so much is talked about and praised by this government. This economic growth is exclusively due to the Slovenian economy. I believe that there are some analyses and forecasts of macroeconomics that have probably already been calculated, but they must not publish what economic growth would be like if there were not some reckless decisions of this government that are stifling economic development. That's why we're against it. And we will also be against this because this government simply does not know how to make use of it, to draw on the resources of the European funds, which are our only grant development. 3 billion 11 million plus 56 million is 3 billion 67 million. By the end of June this year, only 69 million assets had been certified. That's 2.2%. The reason I'm guessing is because this app doesn't work. Who is responsible for state information and information technology? Are we going to call someone by name and surname to account? We'll do it. We will now do so by voting against this budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u185	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Left Party, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u186	Thank you for your word. We will also vote against this budget. I am listening to this debate and metaphors, and I think the next call from the National Assembly also needs a basic sailing course. I'm serious. I'm not kidding. This government has a very pleasant wind. This government, if it were responsible, would now raise a genrake, but it should have a much better skipper and a much better tactic. And sailing. The 2019 budget, when it is possible to sail against the wind, I hope that the government will manage it. What if there's a Chinese jeep that can hit you, boom, on the head, if I'm metaphorical? And I sincerely hope that the balance of this budget will be implemented by the Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u187	Is there any other explanation? There's no more explanation. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 23. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I note that the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2019 has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 20th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 and 2018 under the urgent procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 15. 11. 2017 and published on the e-club. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the vote This part has been written down. [[…]] And once you're in there, you can't see right away. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members to Article 54. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 51. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 60 of the Group of Ambassadors. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 10 votes against 47. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 69. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 49. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members to Article 69 under Article 2. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 50. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendments were not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 51 votes against 25. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 25.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 43. DOCTOR OF THE DAY, IT'S ON MANATE VOLUNTARY MATTERS We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for Appointment to the Supreme Court of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the appointment of Mrs Marjet Švab Shirok as Judge of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the Registrar of the Magi Council. Ionica Marflak Trontel.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u188	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Also, the call for an open seat of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, whose hearing and decision is before you today, was published because only 4 judges were tried at the Supreme Court criminal department until the beginning of this month. In order to ensure a further quality part of this section, it was therefore necessary to draw up a vacancy. The Council of Justice elected senior judge Marjeto Švab Shirok among the six candidates on the invitation to tender, all very good, and proposed her to the National Assembly for appointment as supreme judge. Marjeta Švab Shirok, born in 1964, began her career at the State Prosecutor's Office. The District Attorney’s office was held until October 1997, when she was assigned to a group of state prosecutors for the prosecution of organised crime at the Supreme Public Prosecutor’s Office. She was elected to the District Court in Ljubljana in 2000. She was assigned to the penal department. Since 2008, he has served as a senior judge in the Criminal Division of the Higher Court in Ljubljana. She was appointed to the post of Senior Judge of the Council in 2015. In addition to years of professional experience in the field of criminal law, Marjeta Švab Shirok also works professionally as a lecturer and head of workshops at criminal and criminal investigation schools. It is also active at international level. In her work she is responsible, reliable and prudent. It is characterized by excellently reasoned legal positions, in-depth expertise, rich work experience, readiness for teaching and mentoring in the judiciary, commitment to judicial service and in-depth knowledge of European Union law, international case law and the highest courts of other EU Member States, which is also of paramount importance in the work of the Supreme Court Criminal Division. Thus, the Council of Justice estimates that Marjeta Švab Shirok is the most suitable candidate for the City of Justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u189	The proposal was addressed by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision appointing Mrs Marjeta Švab Shirok to the Supreme Court of Justice of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 15. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 15.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Candidate List for the election of four members of the State Prosecutor's Council. The President of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Borut Pahor, is 27. Ten. 2017, on the basis of the second indent of Article 97(2) of the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, submitted a candidate list for the election of four members of the State Prosecutor's Council, on which seven candidates were proposed. Because Dr. Blaž Kavčič is Mlinar 9. 11. 2017 The following 6 candidates remain on the candidate list: Milan Birsa, Dr. Ange Erbežnik, Dr. Katja Filipčič, Ljubica Kosmovski Fojkar, mag. Joseph Kovac and Igor Lučovnik. For further explanation of the candidate list, I give the floor to the Secretary-General at the Office of the President of the Republic, Mrs Natashi Kovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u190	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, welcome! At the invitation of the President of the Republic, the President of the Republic received nine nominations within the time limit for members of the State Prosecutor's Council when he received a notice of expiry. One candidate withdrew from the candidate list prior to the decision of the President of the Republic. The Law on the State Prosecutor's Office in Article 97 clearly and unequivocally provides that the State Prosecutor's Council shall consist of four other members elected by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on a proposal from the President of the Republic from legal experts. In doing so, the law does not state any additional restrictions. In its assessment, the President of the Republic consistently complied with the legal provision. On this basis and after examining the candidates and the opinions received by the leaders of the parliamentary groups, he forwarded to the National Assembly the candidate list on which the candidates Milan Birsa, Prof. Dr. Anže Erbežnik, Prof. Katja Filipčič, Ljubica Kosmovski Fojkar, mag. Jožef Kovač, Igor Lučovnik and Dr Blaž Kovačič Mlinar, who, as president of the National Assembly informed, later withdrew from his candidacy. Mr Milan Birsa, a retired senior state prosecutor, who has served as a judicial prosecutor on the state's prosecutions, worked on concrete and very difficult cases and was rewarded twice for his work. He has extensive operational and managerial experience. Isr. Prof. Ange Erbežnik is a Dr. law professor of criminal law at the European Faculty of Law, institution of criminal proceedings, economic criminal law, constitutional and international criminal law. He's also head of the Department of Criminal Law. He is a recognised legal expert in criminal law and European Union law. It also works for a number of years on the European Parliament's Committee on Fundamental Freedoms, Justice and Home Affairs. Dr Katja Filipčič is a professor of criminal law and criminology at the Faculty of Law of the University of Ljubljana. In addition to teaching work, she also serves as a prodecanka for study matters and is a researcher at the Institute of criminology of the Faculty of Law. She is a recognised legal expert in criminal law and criminology. Among other things, she is co-author of the textbook Kazenska Law, which is considered the central textbook of criminal law in Slovenia. Ljubica Kosmovski Fojkar is a retired state prosecutor who has worked on the prosecution for her entire career. At the end of 2011, she retired as the senior state prosecutor of the Council at the external department of the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office in Cyprus. She's got a degree in life's work in the field of justice. She has been active for many years, participating in the White Ring of Slovenia by offering legal and psychosocial assistance to victims of crime throughout the Primorska area. Honey Kosmovski Fojkar is a recognized expert in the prosecution's work. Mag. Jožef Kovač is a graduate of the Faculty of Law in Maribor and has mastered at the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana. He is a settlement in criminal matters and a member of the Association of Settlements of Slovenia in criminal matters. From 2010 to 2013, he was elected assistant to the field of criminal law at the Faculty of Law in Maribor. He was also selected twice as one of the ten most influential lawyers in the selection of the "Ius Info" portal. As a lecturer, he participated in domestic and international seminars and conducted lectures as an external contractor at the Faculty of Security Sciences. And the last candidate, Mr Igor Lučovnik, retired senior judge of the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia, lastly as head of the external department in Nova Gorica. He has extensive work experience both in the field of prosecution and in the judiciary and in the economy. Until 2009, he was also a member of the Judicial Council of the Republic of Slovenia and the Vice-President of the Personal Council of the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia. He is the recipient of the life-work medal in the field of justice. The public was also informed by the views and opinions of candidates for members of the State Prosecutor's Council on the public presentations made by candidates in the past days. All candidates are legal professionals, qualify for membership in the State Prosecutor's Council and are eligible for this important function. The President of the Republic is confident that Members and Members of the proposed candidates and candidates will have the opportunity to choose the most suitable and capable four members of the State Prosecutor's Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u191	The candidate list was treated by the Mandate-Electorial Commission as a parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to the vote to elect four members of the State Prosecutor's Council. The election of members of the State Prosecutor's Council shall be made by making reasonable application of the provisions of the Judicial Act governing the election of members of the Council, pursuant to the fourth paragraph of Article 100 and Article 101 of the Public Prosecutor's Act. The first paragraph of Article 21 of the Law on Courts provides that the proposed number of candidates must be greater than the number of members elected but not more than twice as many as the number of members elected. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 21 of the Law on the Courts of Election, the National Assembly shall act by secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Rule 92 of the Rules of Procedure, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Chairpersons and four Members elected by the National Assembly. The representatives of the parliamentary groups have already forwarded me proposals for the members of the panel that leads the vote. These are: Dr Mitja Horvat, SMC Group, Franz Breznik, SDS Group, Ivan Hršak, Desus Group, and Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec, Left Group. I am also a member of this Commission as Chairman. Deputy Secretary-General Jernej Bergoč will also be involved in the work of the Commission. Does anyone object to such a proposal for a commission? No, no, no. We are moving on to a decision on the composition of the commission. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 67 votes against 3. [[The vote was 67.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the Commission has been set up in the proposed composition. In accordance with the third paragraph of Rule 92 of the Rules of Procedure, the Chamber shall be served with a message to Members and Members by each Member coming to the Chair's table and giving its name and surname. The vote shall be taken by surrounding the number in front of the name of the candidate for which the vote is taken. He shall vote for four candidates. The vote, which will cover more than 4 numbers before the names of the proposed candidates, will be invalid. In accordance with Article 91, paragraph 5, of the Rules of Procedure, an unfulfilled vote and a vote from which the Member's will will not be made clear will be invalid. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 196 of the Rules of Procedure, the four candidates for whom the majority of Members will vote, who will cast the votes in force and receive the maximum number of votes, will be elected. If the four candidates do not receive the required majority in the first vote, a second vote shall be taken, which shall vote on the number of candidates to be elected. The second vote shall vote on those candidates who have obtained the most votes in the first vote. We will vote in the hall, in the voting booths. Members and Members of Parliament will place the completed votes in the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. Members, please assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where you will take over the voting material. The vote will begin at 2 p.m. and 40 minutes and will last until 3 p.m. and 55 minutes. After the vote, I ask Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to meet you in room 217. I interrupt this agenda item and the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 3 p.m. and 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u192	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue the meeting and by considering the candidate list for the four members of the State Prosecutor's Council. Allow me to read the minutes on the outcome of the vote for the election of four members of the State Prosecutor's Council. The vote was held at the Assembly premises today, 16 November 2017. 78 ballots were distributed. 78 votes were delivered, 3 votes were invalid, 75 votes were valid. The candidates received the following number of votes: Milan Birsa – 47 votes; Dr. Anže Erbežnik – 27 votes; Dr. Katja Filipčič – 51 votes; Ljubica Kosmovski Fojkar – 45 votes; mag. Jožef Kovac – 11 votes and Igor Lučovnik – 44 votes. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, the majority of the votes cast by Members who gave valid votes for four members of the State Prosecutor's Council were elected: Dr. Katja Filipčič, Milan Birsa, Ljubica Kosmovski Fojkar and Igor Lučovnik. I congratulate the elected members and members of the State Prosecutor's Council, and wish them much success in the performance of their duties. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda, which is the question of Members and Members. We will vote on the proposals for decisions on the basis of a review of the proposals of the Members and Members for a discussion on the replies of the President of the Government, ministers and ministers of 14. 11. 2017, which is published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the first proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to Mr Jernej Vrtovec's question on the return of confidence in Slovenian health. There is no further explanation under the new Rules of Procedure. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 16 votes against 48. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. We are moving on to a decision on the second proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr. Mir Cerar, to the question of mags. Alenka Bratušek related to the amount of the 2013 bank deficit. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 15 votes in favour and 44 votes in favour. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. We are moving on to a decision on the third proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Petr Gasperšić, to the question of the post-mail question of Ljub Žnidar regarding the delay in e-Trafficking. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 16 votes in favour and 44 votes in favour. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. We are moving on to a decision on the fourth proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance of Mags. Mateje Vraničar Erman on the question of the delegation of Violeta Tomić regarding the financing of the Roman Catholic Church by the State. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, with 5 votes against 59. [[The vote was 5.]] [[Against 59.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. We are moving on to a decision on the fifth proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance of Mags. Mr Mateje Vraničar Erman and Minister for Economic Development and Technology of Mr Zdravko Počvalska on the question of mag. Mark Pogačnik in connection with brexit. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 16 votes in favour and 44 votes in favour. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. We are moving on to a decision on the sixth proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Mr Anton Persak, Minister of Culture, to the question put by Dr Anjet Logar in connection with the developments in the Slovenian Public Institute of Philharmonic. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 16 votes in favour and 47 votes in favour. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. We are moving on to a decision on the 7th proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnetic Nutrition. The actual Jew on the question of the port of Mesca regarding our super meat ad – our super food. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 14 votes in favour and 45 votes in favour. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. We move to a decision on the eighth proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Public Administration, Boris Koprivnik, to Dr. Vinko Gorenak's question concerning the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia U-I-65/13-19 of 3. Seven. 2014 repealing the provisions of Articles 162 to 169 of the Law on Electronic Communications. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 15 votes in favour and 43 votes in favour. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on Mrs Irena Majcen's response to the question of Luke Mesca on the non-existent housing policy and the non-implementation of the national housing programme. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 43. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 35th meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. I wish everyone well that in the future, instead of an international day of tolerance, we celebrate our day of mutual respect today, as this comes from the recognition of the basic equivalence of the dignity of another.
