ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 34th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Dr. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, Mrs. Jelka Godec, Violeta Tomić from 12 to 19:00, Mrs. Iva Dimic, Mrs. Ljudmila Novak, Mrs. Marija Bachič from 11 to 14:00, Mrs. Irena Kotnik until 12 noon, Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec, Miha Kordiš from 21.30 p.m., Dr. Milan Brglez from 17.30 to 7.30 p.m., Mr. Zvonko Lah from 17:00 p.m., Mr. Jernej Vrtovec from 17.30 p.m., Mr. Igor Zorčič from 15 to 20 p.m.m., Mr. Primož Hainz from 17.20 p.moz Janša, Mr. Franz Runk by 12 o'clock. We're moving to 22. On the day-to-day basis, this is a re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Procedure Act. At its 32nd extraordinary meeting, on 26 September 2017, the Council of State requested that, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Act amending and supplementing the Law on Criminal Procedure be reconsidered before the announcement. To explain my request, I give the floor to Mrs Bojana Potočan, representative of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u2	Thank you very much for the floor, distinguished President of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, the distinguished Minister and the rest of you. The Council of State, by 32 votes and 4 against, accepted the request that the National Assembly re-decision on the amendment of the CAP-N. It listened to a wide range of professional public, specialists in criminal law from the police, prosecutors, lawyers, judges, professors of three legal colleges, in short, the professional public, who had been critical to the proposed amendment from the very beginning, and their substantive comments had not been overturned by the amendments. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which made a request for re-decision, has also expressed its view that the comments in the veto are also part of their comments, which are not overturned by amendments. Reducing the importance of critical professional public arguments even in a poor way is not appropriate and does not change the fact that the contested criticisms have been expressed, which we could monitor both at the meetings of the Commissions in the State Council and later in the National Assembly in the context of the public presentation of the opinions and other meetings of the Committee on Justice. Every citizen can be found in criminal proceedings and innocents can also be found in criminal proceedings, and it is essential that equality of arms, defence and prosecution is established, as any democratic criminal procedure seeks to ensure that no innocent person is unjustly convicted. In particular, I would like to point out that the State Council is not starting to discuss which concept of criminal procedure is most appropriate in the Republic of Slovenia. Any concept, I would like to stress in particular, can be good or bad, depending on its implementation and compliance with the social situation. However, we are critical of the implementation of the concept, as offered in the new CAP-N, because the proposed method of police and prosecutorial investigation, which is intended to replace the judicial investigation, undermines the concept of equal treatment of arms to the detriment of the defence. We have noted that the stages of the judicial investigation now being carried out by an investigative judge concerned with the collection of both burdensome and burdensome evidence in terms of ensuring the fairness of the criminal procedure cannot be replaced solely by the functioning of the police and the prosecution as one of the parties to the proceedings without giving an active role to the defence at the same time; and that is the essence of our comments. The equality of arms must be ensured through the entire criminal procedure, not only from the filing of the indictment further. The inequality of weapons will have consequences in at least two directions. The fairness of the proceedings will be questioned, which is likely to be tested before the Constitutional Court and will prolong the proceedings. On the other hand, the defence of the lack of knowledge as far as possible, as evidence will already be produced unilaterally, will try to replace the main treatment phase, which means that the main hearings will be extended and the judge will be more burdened than ever. Since the main stage of treatment is at the same time also the most expensive stage of the procedure, this will also lead to the promotion of criminal proceedings. We have also noted that the proposed system, due to a lack of familiar defence options and thus the ignorance of its actual legal situation in the process, will result in a reduction in the confessions of guilt when defendants are represented by lawyers, and, on the other hand, there is a risk that the socially weaker accused will be held liable in cases where there is no mandatory advocate and they do not have free legal aid, as they are also recognised by censorship, even if they are innocent, in the fear that they will not be able to challenge and be punished more severely than if they plead guilty. In the current regulation of the criminal procedure, the evidence of both parties shall be clarified in the judicial investigation and, to a greater extent, the actual situation of the case already clarified; therefore, their position is known to the parties, which, under the new regulation in which the judicial investigation remains solely on paper and is in fact gone, will not be. Since the Council of State does not have the legal power to propose a decision only on the part of the law, which in this case would undoubtedly be taken into account, we propose that the National Assembly decide on the amendment of the CAP-N as a whole and reject it. The law is good in the work relating to the situation of victims of crime, to the unloading of the main proceedings, by not having to read the evidence anymore, and in some other provisions, it is therefore unfortunate that the applicant has also arrived at these good regulations which are controversial and burdensome from the very beginning. An important law such as the Criminal Procedure Act, which deeply interferes with the individual's right to personal freedom and security against unjustified criminal proceedings, should not be enforced in the face of such widespread opposition by the professional public and, in particular, inconsistent with the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u3	The request was addressed by the Committee on Justice as the parent working body. I give the floor to President Jan Škobernet to present the opinion of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, Honourable State Councilwoman, colleagues and colleagues! At its 43rd meeting, the Committee of Justice considered the request of the Council of State that the National Assembly decide again on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure. Mrs Potočan, the state councilwoman, said, as in today's presentation of the State Council's request, that despite the many positive changes that the law brings, some solutions in it are such that they constitute unacceptable interference with the right to defence, even under a constitutionally permissible minimum, as well as significantly exacerbating the situation of socially weak suspects when defence is not compulsory. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Mr Darko Stare, explained that efficiency in criminal proceedings is primarily an effective guarantee of the procedural rights of the suspect, the accused and the accused, and he rejected the State Council's concerns about interventions in the right to defence and the deterioration of the situation of the socially weak. The Committee on Justice, which, however, consists of 17 members and members, continued to vote, in accordance with Article 91(2) of the Constitution and Article 84, in conjunction with Article 56 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on the opinion that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure was appropriate, but did not adopt it because one vote was lacking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u5	In order to explain my opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Justice of the Magi. Goran Klemenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u6	Dear President, Members of Parliament and Members of the Council of the State! To the Ministry of Justice, we have prepared a new law before you with a clear aim to reform the Slovenian criminal procedure in order to increase its effectiveness, to prevent abuses of rights and to delay and avoid the time limits of justice for those who have the resources, influence and power, to increase the responsibility and transparency of those involved in the process, both on the part of the detection, prosecution and defence authorities, while at the same time ensuring a greater level of rights for those suspects who are not privileged and are more socially weak; to give greater rights and validity to victims and victims of criminal offences and to strengthen the possibility of dealing with banking crime. We have not done this because of ideology or stubbornness, we have not done a revolution, we have tried to take at least a step in the direction of many developed and neighbouring countries tested solutions in order to break the inert resistance to changes in criminal proceedings, which in essence in Slovenia have been the same for more than 20 years and increasingly unique in Europe. They are also different opinions and are legitimate and must be respected if there are no apparent arguments or flat-rate assessments, defending the interests of the state, manipulation or political or personal offenses. Thus, the novelty has been able to attribute to the abolition of a judicial investigation, that in order to increase efficiency, the level of rights of individuals, suspects, especially those who are socially weak, is lower, and that the solutions are opposed by the majority of the professions and that the stubborn Minister of Justice does not listen to anyone. None of these readings are true, but I can't prove it again today in these five minutes available to me. You have a written government position ahead of you, and behind us are the hours and hours of meetings of committees, public debates, including expressed support for solutions by judges, prosecutors, even the Ombudsman, who have volunteered to support the proposed solutions, even after the veto has been voted on. If the law is not confirmed today, victims and victims of crimes in Slovenia will continue to have fewer rights than victims and victims of crimes in other European Union countries. The remaining three decisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia will remain in force; there will be no legal explicit requests, decisions, plebiscite decisions by all of you Members when you have adopted an interim report on the bank hole; no legal solutions will be made to prevent unjustified procedural abuse and delaying proceedings; no transparency of the functioning of the public authorities at all stages will be enhanced in criminal proceedings, from recording police hearings to separate opinions in the Supreme Court; no legal state will continue to be in mocking at all stages of the criminal proceedings for false medical certificates or for under-declaration; prosecutors will continue to have difficulties in obtaining data from banks; individuals who cannot afford an attorney will continue to be able to afford a lawyer before the police without compulsory defence, while those who can continue to have access to Europe as well as to defend them. The government believes and argues that the novelty brings and ensures a real step towards a more effective functioning of criminal justice in line with European standards and without disproportionate interference with fundamental rights, especially a higher level of responsibility and a demand for more work, transparency and expectations of the professionalism of detection and prosecution authorities, as well as of courts and defences. The question that I have been asking myself all the time is whether, in terms of public interest, it is appropriate, responsible, worthy and even admissible to maintain the arrangements that we have today, which on the one hand is incompatible with the European Union, on the other hand, is constantly being criticised, even in this national assembly, at various regular and extraordinary meetings, and which has in practice brought about situations that justify a loss of public confidence in the rule of law today. Dear Members and Members! Even if the law falls today, as long as I'm the Minister of Justice, I'll stand by his change, because it's the only constructive way to change things for the better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u7	I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Good day to the Minister, to the Secretary of State, to all Members and Members. Your Honor! We are all aware that the procedural rules in the judicial system need to be amended in the direction of protecting the rights of all participants and in the direction of shortening the proceedings. The rules on criminal proceedings have also been subject to renovation for several years, and the basic idea of restricting the judicial investigation has fallen to fertile ground with ministers of various client affiliations. Members and Members of the Desus Group agree that the criminal procedure must be changed in what direction these changes should go, to what extent they should go to the rights of the parties to the procedure, in order to ensure that this is sufficient for the rationality and speed of the procedure, is another, but a key question. The Council of State argues that certain solutions — not all but certain — which are already contained in the law, constitute inadmissible interventions into the right to defence to such an extent that the judicial investigation changes literally into a police and prosecutorial investigation, which at the same time creates opportunities for the inequality of parties in criminal proceedings. On this point, I must point out that the law of judicial investigation does not end, but it holds that it restricts it. However, the fact that this restriction is correct, legal and legitimate also has its own opinion within our Group of Members. We also have a number of solutions to adopt a law that is not even disputed for us in the Desus Group. Thus, in the Desus Group, we support most of the proposed solutions within the amendment of the Criminal Procedure Act-N. However, there are certain conceptual solutions for some of us that are unacceptable to the extent that they cannot support the already adopted law. I know this isn't the time for substantive polynomization. Everyone will vote on their own conscience. We also have a shared opinion in our parliamentary group in re-decision on this law. In view of the views and opinions already expressed on this revision, I suppose we will only find out after a re-vote what fate awaits this law: Does the light at the end of the tunnel mean the sun or perhaps the opposite train? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u9	Mr Jan Škoberne, a group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The fact is that the law that we will decide on after the veto of the State Council is a good law and that the solutions that have been designed are necessary and necessary. Unfortunately, something happened at the last reading of the law that we cannot accept from the Social Democrats. In order to remedy the injustices committed, which we understand and support, an amendment has been adopted, which, in our view, should go through a different path and which should not go through the side door, but through the main door solve possible injustices and enable the correction of the latter. However, it is not in a way that this is happening in a law as important as the Law on Kazan Process at the last moment. Given that the law in its current form allows the rehabilitation of the employees of the occupying party, the Social Democrats of this law will not be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u11	The word is given by the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats, for her mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u12	Dear Members and Members, good morning! Who among us can say that the current criminal procedure and the Criminal Procedure Act are effective? I think that no one is a hero who could claim that the current procedures are effective and good, because the current Criminal Procedure Act allows for such or other procedural abuses. Because if we had an effective marriage today, then probably Zoran Jankovic, Ivan Zidar and Balkan warriors would be sitting behind bars, and everyone would be taking advantage of the incredible exercise in the processes. It is clear that effective prosecution of crime requires change. It is necessary to amend the law and introduce certain news. Certainly, however, we are not looking at ideal adjustments. If I list some good corrections that we can see in this law, then in Novi Slovenija we especially see the following things. The correction of the Criminal Procedure Act, which is before us again today in decision-making, implies that the police must ensure that the injured person avoids contact with the perpetrator. Under this law, it will be less likely that criminals will be further intimidated or attacked by their victims in one way or another when the proceedings are under way. The next good thing we see is that the injured person can get information about the stage of criminal proceedings and also the pre-trial procedure. Another thing that is good and which would be good in the process against a war criminal Popov is that he can take over the prosecution if the prosecution just doesn't start it and that this period of eight days, which was really short, is extended to 30 days. In the marriage there are some small and small details that are important from the human point of view, such as that of mothers who have babies, if they have to go to prison. But in all the debates so far, some have raised two key issues that make you deny support for this law; one is a judicial investigation and a change in this judicial investigation, and the other is supposed to be our amendment that protects legality. First of all, our positions, our views on these two key things in the marriage. The trial, after all these different opinions from the profession to the professors, we went once again to examine all things, from article to article, if you want, from sentence to sentence, what this will actually mean, and in the end we have come to some incredible conclusion that, after our assessment, this proposal, which is now on the table, is in particular to shorten and eliminate the duplication of certain procedures. Thus we in New Slovenia do not have any major problems with this proposed solution to the judicial investigation. Another solution, an amendment that should be in the very beginning of the marriage, but thank God he came into the marriage with an amendment, which is to allow the protection of the legality of the injured. All those who oppose this amendment support Apartheid, and here I must very clearly expose Jan Škobernet, then Karl Erjavac, who are the main reason why they oppose the new Criminal Procedure Act, have just highlighted our amendment. But once again, those who oppose this amendment support apartheid. Be honest and be honest! This amendment only allows the injured person in front of Slovenian courts to prove that he has been unjustly convicted before Yugoslav courts. Tell me, what's wrong with that? And in some normal democratic society of the 21st century, apartheid should no longer be allowed! New Slovenia will support this Criminal Procedure Act in re-decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u13	The word is given by the Left Group, Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u14	Dear President, distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues, good morning! The position of the Left to amend the Criminal Procedure Act remains unchanged. From March of this year, when his treatment began, nothing has changed. The reason that we have been considering the proposal for more than six months is the fact that it is practically opposed by the entire profession. He is also opposed by almost the entire opposition. And in the third reading it turned out that only SMC, Dr. Miro Cerar, Minister Klemenčič and, of course, Nova Slovenija supported it because of their adopted amendment. The fact that only 32 Members and Members supported the proposal at the third reading should trigger a red alarm. We are therefore talking about one of the most important systemic laws; a law by which we can assess whether the country is really legal or not. If the marriage is bad, then the innocent end up in prison, while the criminals walk free, some even play unburdened basketball. Public confidence in the rule of law is therefore not at a high level. There is a growing feeling that we have two legal states; one for the rich and the other for the poor. That our current legal system allows such excesses is a fact. Criminal proceedings and judicial investigations take too long and the most important cases of banking and economic crime are repeatedly obsolete. Most of the privatisations and gravediggers of formerly successful Slovenian companies are still on the loose. But the solution that we change this with is simply to remove the guardians who provide a fair process by shortening the procedures at the expense of those who cannot afford a lawyer by further increasing the powers of the police and providing even more invasive covert investigative means that allow many abuses; by completely ignoring the professions and by completely bypassing the extremely negative opinion of the Law and Law Service; and thus the problems that our judicial system has will not be solved. The proposal that we will take today’s decision on the part of the Council of State today is extensive. Most of the articles are not controversial, and in fact the fact that it brings positive solutions: from allowing the use of disguised investigative measures against criminal associations that make profits on the basis of animal torture to better regulation on medical excuses, whose abuse is certainly a popular practice, and measures to help victims of crime, separate opinions and the protection of a journalist's source and so on. All these solutions, which have not yet been carried out by the profession, would certainly be very welcome, but the ministry and the coalition have failed to agree on these solutions today. The problem is that in Levica we have repeatedly proposed amendments that would remove all those provisions that are more controversial and which would have more negative than positive effects in practice from the proposal. But the minister, unfortunately, decided to go to everything or nothing. The guilt that the law will today, I hope, be completely rejected, is therefore entirely and exclusively on the Minister and on the SMC, who, as usual, did not want to hear a well-founded argument. In the absence of votes, it was hoped that the law would receive at least the support of the right hand, in the end the proposal even added leave to national traitors. While money for those who can't afford a lawyer, we don't have the money to do that, obviously we have enough to compensate the locals; we're pretty much in it for that. In Levika, of course, we will also vote against the bill this time.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u15	The text shall be given by the Group of Non-Aligned Members, for which Dr. Bojan Dobovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u16	All those who accompany this meeting are respected! In any case, changes in society are taking place, changes in criminality as well, and this must be followed by legislation. But what legislation? One that's operational and not to the detriment of human rights. The profession has drawn attention to errors in this law, as well as to the leaders in some institutions that will apply this law. Then the Legislative and Legal Service recalls the violation of human rights and, of course, the State Council with its veto, where it highlighted those mistakes that are the worst for the development of democracy and for the successful functioning of institutions. Many dilemmas, constitutional issues, the issue of the protection of human rights, which is always affected by such legislation, are being raised. The main question is: the rule of law or, on the other hand, the police state – with fear and repression to control society. Of course, hidden investigative measures directly interfere with human rights and are not a direct response to criminal cases. Classical police work and the right distinction between personal evidence and material evidence are required. And the most abuse of human rights occurs on personal evidence. What do we want to achieve? We want better evidence standards, which go primarily to material evidence and the ability of the parties to protect their rights in the process and, however, whether there are control mechanisms over the work of the police and the prosecution so as not to abuse the power. And this is where this is all about the lack of these control mechanisms. The biggest dilemma is whether we want security or just to increase control and repressive institutions. The second dilemma we want is the modern, plural police or the police that people will be afraid of. And so we come to a key solution, why an investigative judge’s institute was established — precisely because of the power of the police and the prosecution! Here we need to look for answers and the police and the prosecution will build confidence if they have the right grounds and if proper supervision and abuse cannot be brought into the process. The issue of enforceability; the laws are already appropriate, of course with some additions, we have pointed out to some that they are good, but enforcement is key. But we have seen, for example, in the case of alleged money laundering, that the system works and, in certain cases, fails. We're trying to put an end to this. We will not support these problems in the Group of Non-Aligned Members of the proposal because of these problems.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u17	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Dr. Jasna Murgel.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, representative of the Council of State, all who accompany this meeting! We have already said, we are deciding again on the new KKP-N. We have already said a lot about this, we have presented our arguments, I will only give you those reasons why we are mostly in the Group of the Modern Centre for Law of the Party and why we will support it again. We will support it because, if adopted, the law would introduce efficiency gains in criminal proceedings and actually ensure procedural rights for all participants in the proceedings; the law would also contribute to a faster and better decision by each of the authorities involved in the criminal procedure. This means that each of the participants should play a greater and more active role in the process, and some stakeholders may also oppose this change for this reason. The situation of all suspects and witnesses in the pre-trial procedure will be significantly improved, for the first time so far the legal presence of a lawyer at the expense of the State in the case of minors or persons who are unable to understand their rights, as well as in the case of suspected criminal service with a prescribed prison sentence of over 8 years. An explicit possibility would be introduced to look into the evidence that the police refer to as the basis for suspicion, that is, in the predictive process — this is not the case now! It would also legislate solutions to ensure that the hearing of the suspect or witnesses in the pre-trial proceedings would not have an disproportionately large and important role in the decision of the court. Therefore, the court should not, in order to simplify, justify its judgment solely on the testimony of the witness or on the statement of the suspect. Then, she would introduce a better record of the hearings, now that we have said so many times, the police will make an official note, but in their own way they will write it, and the police should make a record of the suspect's or the witness's hearing, and the individual would have the right to read and sign it, and even if he disagreed, to say so. We also said that the protection of victims of crime would be better and so on and so on. We believe that we now have an opportunity with this CAP-N, with this amendment, to adopt a law that would allow for a more effective conduct of the criminal procedure, which the current regime does not allow because it would regulate the content of the process in a more efficient way while protecting human rights. Indeed, the proposed changes would change some of the pending procedures that participants in the forecasting process know and master – namely, the prosecution, the police, lawyers and the court – but we believe that after twenty years these contradictions should be overcome, because it is important to say that the amendment is supported by the Supreme Court. We can go to the Magnetgrams once again, as the representatives of the Supreme Court have said, the Council of Justice does not oppose it, and it is also supported by the Ombudsman. So, even if we decide again in twenty years' time on the same matters, we will once again have opposition from one shareholder or another, we will never have agreement on certain key matters, because it is the Criminal Procedure Act, but if we do not do so now, we will be deciding in twenty years' time on the same matters, just to find out, aha, we have had the opportunity to do so then, and we have not, and we have had the same procedure for the next twenty years as we do now. With regard to the amendment to the NSI, which would allow only a time limit for someone to apply for the protection of legality, this is only a time limit, this does not mean that there would be automatic rehabilitation, but someone would have the opportunity to state the particulars and evidence before the court and to be excused by the court if these evidence were substantiated. This is no automatic rehabilitation, and I can't pin it on such statements. So for the reasons stated today, in the SMC Group, we will overwhelmingly support the new CAP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u19	The word is given by the SDS Group of Members, Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u20	Thank you very much. The fact that we don't support the law is probably also evident from the moon, so I don't have to explain it in particular. In other words, some things need to be said in the camera, so that people understand better. Today, it is not up to the opposition to vote or adopt this law as such. Everyone in the opposition can go home, and you're the one in the coalition who needs to collect 46 votes. – Yes, well, listen – which you need to collect 46 votes to make the law valid. There's something you need to say. This law supports Minister Klemenčič with his team. Anyone else? Anyone else? Nobody! The Supreme Court didn't, as it was said before, you invented it, I didn't see it anywhere. Supports — Who, then? The SD made its position clear, Desus made his position clear, Left said her position. They did not mention their views, in fact, and even within the party that is the leading party in the country, namely SMC, the people who left the last vote, you know that, did not vote, but also people who have a spine like Mrs Kornjakova and Mr Zorčič. We'll see if today Minister Klemenčič managed to break some spines. This will show this vote. Of course, there is one fundamental question. It's a fundamental question. I don't remember in my career, I don't remember, or even when I was looking at this place only through the media, so that some kind of law would be passed with 32 votes in favour. If anyone remembers such a case, perhaps an older professional associate, but as far as Members are concerned, I don't think any of us remember the law that would have been passed by 32 votes in favour of 90. Does anyone remember a veto supported by 32 of the 36 saints? Nobody! I guess this veto didn't happen, at least I don't know if it would. But yet, this has happened to you, gentlemen and ladies of the SMC. On behalf of all those against this law who have taken place in this Chamber, these are experts who have nothing to do with you, not with you, not with us, not with us, they are principal professors – I mean those three who clearly say that the law cannot be what it is. Last but not least, look, the minister's making sure everything's all right. We've heard Mrs. Murgelj say everything's fine. Yes, let me tell you why then Vesna Györkös Žnidar, who is the Minister of the Interior, says it is not true! And she says in her performance – what? In order to reduce the level of human rights in order to make them, in their own words, those who do not have money who will not be able to afford lawyers and so on and so forth. [[…]] That's not my word. This is said by the current Minister of the Interior, who is your member, ladies and gentlemen! This is your member. Oh, no! You're still listening to one minister who isn't perhaps your member or whatever. I don't understand doing that. I don't understand! All I can say is, congratulations to all those who will keep your upright back and to all those who will keep it and not sell it. And not acting to the detriment of, I'll say, the citizens. As far as colleagues from New Slovenia are concerned, of course, I believe that this was a mistake. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u21	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. I will take a re-decision on the law today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 21st item of the agenda. I hereby conclude this agenda item. No, I'm breaking this agenda. I'm breaking this agenda so there won't be any mistake. [[Laughing in the hall]] If I had that power, [[…]] We're moving to 3. At the end of the day, this is to the contrary the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Regulation of the Public Interest in Culture after the termination of the procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 36 Members and Members with the first-signed Dr Dragan Matić. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Dr Dragan Matić.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u22	Dear President, dear Minister, distinguished colleagues! It is my great joy and satisfaction that we are today considering the amendment of the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture. This is a rare case where we have on the table a change in the cultural regulation, which is in such a strong public interest as this. It is in the interest of culture in the broadest sense of the word, in the interest of national art and in the interest of artists whose public money is not available today, because they do not have their own agencies or public institutions. At the outset, however, I am not even referring to the provision of existential conditions for artists who are of course also important. Today, we have a sad situation when in Slovenia the artistic share of public investment is no longer insignificant but even less present, although it has been self-evident in the past. Since there are no public contracts, artists do not have the opportunity to develop their creativity on projects that would in their essence earn an artistic surplus. This action, once reintroduced into our space by means of the novel that we are considering today, brings something that has been self-evident since the first civilizations. This is the custom of incorporating in public buildings and in public space a sign of time, of culture, of age and of that in the most noble form, in the form of artistic work. So, it is something that the ancient Egyptians, Romans, Renaissance rulers, and which, in the modern age, have been implementing all the advanced countries in the past over 70 years, from Norway, Italy, France, Austria, the United States, Canada, and what we have already done in our places in the past, and we have forgotten in the last 30 years. The new law imposes an obligation on investors, when it comes to public investment, to allocate 1 and 1.25% of the funds for artistic participation under the project. In doing so, we have explicitly excluded public economic infrastructure. We have limited the measure to those investments for which a building permit is required. In this way, we aim to enrich public spaces, i.e. places where people gather from everyday needs. We believe that in this way artistic works will approach people, that the value of the public environment will be elevated, that creativity will be stimulated, that people will become interested in art, and not least that positive effects will also be shown in a completely material sense, especially when we are talking about the importance of cultural offer for the development of cultural tourism. Because of the importance of artistic participation in investments and the culture of investors, today we have some beautiful cultural monuments, which we proudly show to tourists, but this has occurred in the past. However, it would be good if we could also provide public spaces for our contemporarys and our craftsmen. Finally, let me say that we regret that most municipalities reject the fact that the artistic share is also taken into account in public investments carried out at the municipal level. However, we believe that with the solution contained in the bill, this measure is considered to be a recommendation for the municipalities, this is being adequately resolved at this point. Those municipalities that will want to implement this measure have this possibility, and I believe that these municipalities, especially those of the city, will be something. Let the country be a local self-governance example. Dear colleagues, I invite you to make a new law on the realization of public interest in culture supported, as already done by the Academy of Fine Arts and Design of the University of Ljubljana, the Department of Art History of the Faculty of Arts of the University of Ljubljana, the International Association of Fine Critics, the Association of Associations of Slovenian Fine Artists, the Slovenian Conservatory Society, the Society of Restorators of Slovenia and the Association of European Visual Arts.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u23	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Culture to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Ms Janji Slug, Vice-President.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u24	Thank you very much. At its 25th regular meeting, on 4 October 2017, the Committee on Culture considered a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture, submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first signed by Dr Dragan Matic. The proposed law was also examined by the Legal and Legislative Service. Her representative said that their comments were largely taken into account in the Committee's proposals for amendments submitted by the coalition parliamentary groups. It also drew attention to their comments on the principle of proportionality, the principles of clarity and certainty and the arrangements for financing the implementation of the measure from public funds. The draft law was also supported by the Commission of the Council of State for Culture, Science, Education and Sport, while the Council of State did not support it. They considered that the requirement that municipalities, as investors, should invest in the renovation or construction of buildings owned by them should be allocated to fine works of art, unacceptable to them. No amendments were tabled within the time limit, but proposals were proposed for amendments to the committee by coalition parliamentary groups. Following the opening presentation of the bill by Dr Dragan Matić's representative, the discussion followed, in particular, on the height and significance of the intended artistic share, the importance of art, the unacceptable social distress between cultural creators, the need for stable public financing of culture, the frequent appearance of luxury between artistic creators and the positive consequences that will result from the implementation of the artistic work measure in practice. Many interested public representatives who supported the implementation of the measure also submitted their views on the proposal, as they considered it appropriate, inter alia, that new financial resources should be made available to artists, that the art market would be more active, that quality works could also be collected in public spaces and that quality would be of primary importance in choosing. After discussion, the Committee adopted proposals for amendments to the Committee and, in accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, voted on and adopted the articles of the draft law. In the light of the amendments adopted pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the word of the amended law, which includes the amendments adopted, is prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u25	I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Anton Persak, Minister for Culture, for an introductory explanation of the opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u26	Dear Members and Members! In view of all that has already been said, the Government supports the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture, submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members with the first-signed Dr. Matić. I would add that more or less all European developed countries have adopted such laws in a row decades ago. If we visit these countries today, it is easy to see the effects of these laws, and if we walk in Slovenia, it is regrettable that urban space, especially the one that has been formed in the last two, three decades, is often not designed with the sense of aesthetic and social function of urban space. There are also many ways that interventions of this kind have taken place in space, but not in a professional way enough, but perhaps, perhaps, in an amateur way, with excessive savings, which eventually causes more damage than benefits. Remember, too, what we see in our circles, the best thing to do is to plant a tree there, although the conditions for the trees are not very friendly there. This law allows for a significant shift in this respect and is therefore considered important by the Government. For the Ministry of Culture, however, it is even more important because it offers an opportunity, as has already been mentioned, to improve the situation of visual art and artists who are engaged in this art and are currently in a very difficult situation, which has already been highlighted, as the market has virtually died. For all these reasons, the Government, as it is said, supports the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u27	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mrs Marija Bachič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u28	Dear Mr President, the distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! In the Group of Social Democrats, we support proposals that, in a feasible and legally permissible manner, improve the position of all those working in the field of culture, so we will support the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture. The proposal provides that the share of the investment is intended for works of art, which will enrich the new premises with artistic creations and will enable and improve the material position of the creators. In the introduction, it is worth adding that the proposal for a binding share of the art works of public investment projects is not new, as the practical aim was also followed by the proposal for a law which Maja Širc put into the legislative procedure before the end of the 2008-2011 mandate. When we assessed the initial draft proposal for that novel, we questioned the legal admissibility of the regulation of the area in the manner foreseen by the proposer. From the point of view of the relationship between the local community and the state, we have pointed out that the imposition of the compulsory share of art on the municipalities represents an additional financial burden, arguing that they are not being allocated additional financial resources. The constitutional dispute over such matters was also raised by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. In addition to the disproportionateity of interference with the autonomy of matters falling within the competence of local communities, this stressed the importance of the principle of clarity and the certainty of the legal rules which the text submitted did not achieve. In the Group of Social Democrats, we are therefore pleased that the parts of the proposal over which it raised doubts about unconstitutionality have been adequately changed on the working body. The revised proposal makes it possible for the law to live in practice and achieve its purpose, while at the same time eliminating all obstacles to achieving the broadest possible support for both the public and the policy. Respected and respected! Thus, with the amendment of the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture, we make an important contribution to improving the position of one part of the creator in culture. In order to ensure better working conditions in culture, however, we expect that the competent ministry will also follow good intentions and submit to the National Assembly a systematic and long-term approach before the end of its term of office. Among them, in the Group of Social Democrats, we expose the Law on the provision of funds for certain emergency programmes in culture, the so-called Cultural Euro Act. As it is said, in the Group of Social Democrats, I will support the proposed amendment to the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u29	The text is given by the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary, dear colleagues and colleagues! The purpose of the proposed Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture is certainly commendable, as it would be welcome to raise housing culture and raise awareness of the quality of space. In view of the previous reactions of stakeholders, in particular all three representative organisations of Slovenian municipalities, the Association of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia, the Association of Slovenia and the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, and the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia, and in view of the opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, we are, until a crucial solution, a law-abiding of the obligations of investors for the purpose of investing in works of art and art aimed at the equipment of premises, are considerably delayed. The law could also, in our view, impose disproportionate obligations on public investors in relation to the objective pursued. We believe that even better effects could be achieved through well-thought-out incentive mechanisms or recommendations, as the drafter also points out in the proposed text. The problem of the amendment is also that it could be inconsistent with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in terms of interference with the autonomy of local communities. Local communities point to the inadmissibility of imposing new and constantly new financial obligations, for which they do not have the financial resources provided, and here is a key problem. The legal and legal service has pointed out the imbalance between the various branches of art. The proposal is obviously mainly or only artistic art, although it is based on art at all. Can such a legal requirement be imagined, for example, for investment planning or equipping public spaces with literary or musical arts? In this sense, we find the law discriminatory towards those creators, to those artists who are not artists, and this is the problem of this law. We need to talk about art in the broadest sense of the word and also encourage it in the broadest sense of the word. Because of all the above, Members of the New Slovenia - Christian Democrats cannot support the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u31	The word is given by the Left Group, Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u32	Thank you for the floor, distinguished President, distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In Levika, we support the proposal for measures of compulsory artistic participation. As a possible solution to the development of art support, we have also mentioned a mandatory share of the investment to be dedicated to art in our programme. This is a measure that promotes the development of art, brings it closer to the general public and opens up new opportunities for work, creation and development for artists. The positive effects of such a proposal are, of course, enormous. In addition to enabling the source of survival for artists and artists, the measure will also revive the art sphere, enrich the environment and promote awareness of contemporary art and its role in society and in public space. Such projects, of course, must not become an excuse for the expansion of cultural industries, expansion tourism and resulting gentrification, nor should they only finance a narrowly connected circle of artists and cultural workers. The measure must also not become a compensation for other systemic ways of financing art, but must only be a complement to it. The budget of the Ministry of Culture shall not be lost by such a measure. But we are in Levica, and I must say this and point out that we are disappointed and believe that a proposaler, like the creators, is disappointed, because the complementary proposal reduces the positive effects that the action would otherwise have. At the time of the adoption of the amendments on the home work body, the pressure of the municipalities dropped. This will only apply to investment in state projects. This means that the expected positive effects for both artists and the community and the development of this community are greatly reduced. The municipalities are the bearers of most of the investments that the law would otherwise apply to. We therefore propose that the municipalities be reintegrated into the law in Levica. We propose that the compulsory artistic share should also apply to investments carried out by local authorities and public law persons whose founders are local communities. We were not convinced by the arguments of the representatives of the municipalities, who see in this measure only an unnecessary cost. The artistic share of 1 per cent of the investment is, in the case of a million investments, the poor EUR 10,000 that the municipality should devote to the art or preservation of cultural heritage, which is, in fact, a negligible sum, compared with all the positive effects that this measure produces. The idea that this is merely an unnecessary cost is wrong, because art is not a consumer material. The bill clearly shows the positive effects that the measure could have for both artists and the general public, and in the last instance for the municipalities, since the measure would help to improve the evaluation of public surfaces, improve the quality of the environment, strengthen the community and also create a space for new forms of coexistence and co-forming public spaces. Finally, the measure may also have extremely positive effects on the development of tourism in the local environment and on the conservation and enrichment of the cultural heritage of a place. In contrast to limiting or cutting down the intended debtors who have to carry out the artistic interest measure, we have gone even further in Levica. We propose that the artistic interest measure extend also to certain private investors investing in the construction or renovation of buildings that are more accessible to the general public. We hope that, on the basis of our proposal, we will be able to hold a constructive debate, which, if not in the future today, will also provide some more ambitious solutions. As we said at the outset, we will support the proposal of the novel in the Parliamentary Left.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u33	The word is given by the Group of the Party of the Modern Center, for her mag. Branislav Rajić.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u34	Good afternoon, everyone! We accept the proposal for a new Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture. This novelty brings a new system-wide measure for the compulsory reservation of a smaller part of investment funds for the art equipment of public spaces and relates to public investors. These are public procurements for new or public-owned real estate, with the exception of local community bodies and public-law bodies whose founders are local communities. For them, however, the present measure, unfortunately, is only considered a recommendation. In the case of projects financed or co-financed by public funds and public-private partnership projects, the debtors will have to invest in specific investments for the purchase of works of art or art. Of course, it is only a matter of greater investment, which requires a building permit. In doing so, it should be stressed that investments in public economic infrastructure, such as railways, roads and sewers, other than park areas and waiting rooms, are explicitly excluded. The latter is understandable because the artistic share is linked to the public spaces where people gather, socialize, or come there because of everyday activities. Therefore, the law also stipulates that art will have to be linked to the object itself or to the space and will have to be made publicly available. The measure will have a positive impact on the practically deadlocked market in the area of artistic and intermediate creativity, where there are almost no public financial incentives compared to other areas. However, the cultural enrichment of public spaces and, as a result, the rise in housing culture is an essential effect of this measure. Once, investors and the state wanted to keep a permanent seal, even in the Middle Ages, in a so-called black period of history, works of the highest artistic quality were produced. In the case of public investment, however, we can already speak of a period of emptiness, because we do not have any surplus that would be equivalent to those in the past. The presence of private sponsors and patrons in public places has been too small in recent decades. With a more responsible role of the country in promoting, promoting and strengthening the creation and integration of architecture and visual arts, the manna of private initiatives can be overcome. This way of financing art and artists abroad has long been known, in some countries the share of art is compulsory, while in others the share and the level of art are recommended. The introduction of a percentage for art will also make public purpose buildings more friendly, markets and streets more adorably rich, and the presence of artists will make their everyday lives, children and young people more noble. Another important aspect to be highlighted is that national cultural policy must be aware of the simple fact that created works of art must be preserved and maintained, as they are part of national identity and cultural history, which cannot be replaced by any imports. Slovenia should be aware that Slovenian culture has an extremely important role to play in this area in the face of an ever-increasing tourist visit. We will culturally support the proposal of the modern centre Party in the Parliamentary Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u35	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Chairman. We have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture, which has come in a rather unusual way on the parliamentary bench. It was submitted by the largest coalition party, a party to the SMC, although it is the normal way of the coalition to submit the laws to the Government or the competent ministry. To this end, the Mira Cerar coalition also has a protocol on the preparation and adoption of legislation in the coalition contract. It is not to be overlooked, however, that the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture is a fundamental system law in the field of culture and that interventions should be all the more deliberate and in particular refined. Of course, a few questions arise. Why such a way of proposing a law? Does this tell us that SMC and Cerar are already dissatisfied with the other Minister for Culture of the Desus quota? Maybe. Did the Minister of Culture disagree with the content of the proposed amendments to the law and, as such, did he not wish to submit it to the National Assembly for consideration? Maybe. Yes, there are many more of these "mordains", but this moment doesn't matter at all. Because it's a coalition that has to save these things at home. The content of the law is more important and particularly problematic and should be devoted to the time available. Given the great extent of the impact of the law on the various stakeholders, including local communities, and the financial consequences of the law, such a proposal should never be adopted in a reduced procedure. This is an unrealistic and irresponsible act by the proposer. The SMC is also in breach of its own coalition record in this case, and in particular proves that the opinions and concerns about the proposed solutions are not, in fact, important and are not of interest. The main measure of amendment of the law is the legalisation of obligations – obligations! – each time an investor in the renovation and construction of public-owned buildings to make part of an investment amount of at least 1 per cent, or 1.5 per cent, 25 per cent, depending on the value of the investment, allocates to the works of art intended for the equipment of the premises, and the remaining amount for the various other costs which will, of course, arise: the implementation of the competition procedure – we are already in the case of the author's fees of the commissions – and the costs of publishing, installation and so on. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we always support proposals that promote raising awareness and enriching public spaces with various forms of art. Above all, it is important for us to strengthen a positive attitude towards Slovenian culture, but the way of coercion, as proposed by the proposer, is a completely wrong path. It should be pointed out that the bill is opposed by the State Council and also opposed by the Association of Municipal municipalities, the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia and the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia. As a result of the opposition, the parent committee has amended an article setting out who the obliged party is to participate in public investment projects and to whom the measure is merely recommended. This raises a new question. What about when an investment is a joint project, such as a country and a local community? In the SDS, because of the inadequacy of the law, we oppose and at the same time call on all other parliamentary groups to consider the proposed solutions. It is only through the cooperation of all those who are touched by the law that good and true solutions are available. It is irresponsible, however, to deal with local communities, which do not oppose the enrichment of local objects with artistic works; however, the largest coalition party, you are responsible for the fact that an average is not yet set today. So do not expect more from others than you do from yourself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u37	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Primož Hainz is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u38	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, allow me to inform you of the position of the Group on amendments to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture. Art is part of culture and it is culture that has preserved us to this day as a nation and thus linked our national identity. It should be continuously nurtured and promoted, and that is why we should strive to improve the conditions for our culturers in all areas. In fact, we can say that we have somehow two kinds of cultures in Slovenia; those who are regularly employed, i.e. for an indefinite time, have salaries that are not satisfied, of course, but this is a matter of negotiation with trade unions or trade unions and the government. Today, of course, we are talking about the others, we are talking about the fine-tuning workers; that is, we are talking mainly about the finesse which must be solved in some way in a possible small sector. The concern is the fact that a very large percentage of artists are self-employed and are among those who live in poorer material and social conditions than the Slovenian average. They live below the poverty threshold and are among the most vulnerable occupational groups. We have before us a proposal for a new Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture, which will help solve the art sphere, as additional public financial support for independent artists is provided by amending the law. Do we really need such a marriage obligation? Some countries around the world have such a scheme regulated by law with obligations, and some with recommendations and also these recommendations work well sometimes. The fact that we need such a legal obligation at all points to the degree of ignorance of the importance of artistic participation in investments. Investment in art should not be considered a missed investment because art has a lasting value. With the amendment of the law, we will culturally enrich public spaces and give artists room for their development. This is a cost that is such a part of this investment at the end. Have you seen a congregation that was not equipped? Probably not. With the amendment of the law, the equipment of the premises is carefully planned and used by the profession, which means that the costs for this equipment are not necessarily higher. The position of artists should have been settled in our country a long time ago. In achieving this goal, by adopting the new law, we will help to improve its living conditions and the situation on the art market. So, convinced that the amendment of the law will improve the social and social situation of artists and culture as a whole, we support the proposal of the law in the parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u39	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled by 18 Ten. 2017. Since the amendment of the Left Group to Article 1 to Article 1 is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposal to Article 4a, we will discuss all amendments to Article 1 and the amendment to Article 4 together. I therefore put to the debate paragraphs 1 and 4a and the three amendments of the Group of Ambassadors of the Left and the amendment of the SMC Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr Primož Hainz has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I must say that I was happy to sign this bill at the time and, of course, I also got the agreement of my parliamentary group, but I must say on this subject, the question of the congregations, why not the congregations. Indeed, some who claim to defend the congregations speak of terrible costs. If you look at real numbers, percentage, percentage and half, of course this is an extremely small percentage of investment in the municipality So, of course, I support the recommendation, so we agreed in the end that the law will be adopted, but the fact is that it is a lot, I think, of course, of demagogies. [[…]] In fact, every opportunity, the congregations may be justified, and those who depend on municipal electoral systems, of course, speak unjustifiably of the great cost. That's what I have to say. I stress once again that the numbers don't show that. I'll point that out. The municipalities have a legitimate right to protest for a simple reason, because the estimated average is too low and then every opportunity in every law, and also in this law, which is intended to benefit the painters, it is important to stress the importance, but of course this cannot be a real reason for you to be against the law as such. Especially when we said that we would accept an amendment in which, of course, we would make only a recommendation to the congregations. It's possible basic. The question is that some are against the law because it solves only one minor problem of painters. Life consists of little things, not of great demagogic speeches and gestures and vows, but of solving small human problems in human life. The artists are on the agenda today, and I think we could support some degree, a little thing that will help the artists in this situation when they actually become penniless workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u41	The word is Violeta Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. With our amendment, we return the original dictatorship in Article 79a, following the opinion of those municipalities which agreed that this measure would be in force, and also welcoming it, as well as the opinion of a host of societies and educational institutions. I would like to stress that by doing so, the congregations would gain much and not lose as much as they initially thought and spoke. Because this way of thinking about how we should always just look at money is unfortunately very unproductive, because if we look at today, we don't know what currencies they had a hundred, 200 years ago, but we know what kind of art they had. By means of this measure, if we commit the municipalities to this small investment in culture, we are talking about a really minor amount of one percent, which is 10,000 euros at the investment of one million circuses. But it is sad to think of culture as a cost. [[…]] Culture has the greatest multiplier effect from all other economic activities. If you put up a cultural monument, a statue, some statue in the middle of a boring market, thereby increasing the interest of tourists, more people go there, not saying how it improves the quality of life for the people who live there. In short, it would be unfortunate to take this measure — namely, that the municipalities are the bearers of most of the investments that this law would make, and that if we accepted that the congregations were exempt from this measure, then we did very little. Look, I've been working in the City Theatre, I've been living in Miklosichev, and I've always rushed to work with my head down, and I've always seen people looking up, and when I looked up, I've seen what beautiful buildings look like Miklosič's street. Such a fine example is the Social Alliance building built during the period of socialism, between 1954 and 1955, which was the first example of this investment, a percentage of the investment invested in culture. We can see what wonderful things this one building is doing: a bronze door in the yard, copper shields, relief sculptures, mosaics, and a ceiling. All this was the work of famous artists of the time: Stojan Batič, Bogdan Thunder, Vladimire Bratus, Loizeta Spacala, Ivan Seljak Chopič, Francet Mihelič. In short, artwork and graphic works were always purchased through successful companies such as Gorenje, Krka, Lek and banks. My question to the Minister was about what will be with, according to experts, the priceless collection currently owned by the New Ljubljana Bank. I hope that we will not sell it together with the bank, because the collection is owned by citizens of Slovenia and it would be very wise to give it a look. Now, somewhere these collections lie, you know, across rooms abandoned, on the floor, according to my information, but art collections belong to museums and our job is to protect it. In short, considering why this measure only takes place in art, we believe that it is not in place. For behold, the musicians have a certain distribution of funds through Sazaz. They have them, and many can live off these resources. Let us leave aside whether we agree on the way Sasas distributes these funds or not. Librarians have library fees. That's what we've been dealing with here, and they're getting it. Many literary creators, poets, writers, receive these compensations and their heirs receive compensation and may not only live off this but at least partially help themselves. Look, art artists are completely left to the market; but the market, respected colleagues and colleagues, does not exist. Slovenia, since we have the neoliberal doctrine that money is that deity, the only and only untouchable, is a very hostile place for artists. Because artists live in permeable conditions, on the brink of survival, many deep below the threshold of poverty, and as such do not have the basic conditions either for creating or for basic survival. I therefore welcome this measure, and I propose that with our amendment we return this obligation, that the municipalities, which are the main vehicles of investment, are, however, also committed to this one percent. In the next item, I will also present the next amendment, which also extends our proposal to private investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u43	That's all one point. That's what I have to say. That's how you have to apply again. Mr Saša Tabakovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u44	Mr President, thank you for saying so. The fact is that the current mentality or mentality of our community is unfortunately such that it is not encouraged to invest in different images, if I may say so; whether it is art, whether it is graphics, whether it is plastics or not. It seems to me that the law that we are considering today is some minimal incentive and movement or development of our mentality that we are also promoting images. When we talk about the law in general, of course, it is not always about tourism, but about the economy, and costs, and so on, in particular, that we promote a culture of space in which we live, as well as the minimum steps at the legislative level, that these things change mentally, but are always welcome. I would like to refer to the amendment of the SMC Group, where in some ways we limit the costs of the tender or the tender. In fact, the amendment is certainly a safeguard to shift the amount of the fee in the event of huge investments – this means that, of course, there will be more for artists or creators and that the costs of the invitation or commission itself will be much lower. In this respect, the amendment follows the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. Because the talk was also about the encouragement or commitment of the congregations to this way of financing. Of course, in principle, I can agree that it would be right to do so. However, the fact is that some congregations had a strong rejection of such a proposal, and it is true that some congregations have supported such a proposal. But those congregations that want to do so can, of course, do not need to be legally obligated to do so. It seems right to me that we have also adopted a dictatorship on the committee, which somehow binds the state; therefore, when it invests in certain investments, when it comes to state resources, to commit the state to do so, but not to commit to the congregation. Some congregations are larger, some are smaller, some could afford it more, some less, so I think it's best that this stays, but when we talk at congregation level, that it remains in the domain of their personal choice. As far as private investors are concerned, the story is even wider. This means that I think it would be even less appropriate for private investors to commit themselves to doing so. I think that if we take the first step to get the state to do this first, to make it work better, and if this works well at the level of the country, I believe that the municipalities, when they can, and especially the private investors, will follow this. As we say, we will support the SMC amendment in the parliamentary group, but we will not support the amendments of the Left. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u45	Mrs. Anita Kolesh has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u46	Mr. President, nice to meet you. Thank you for your words, and I also welcome all my fellow Members here in Parliament and, of course, our Minister of Culture. I would say that this law that we are considering today is one bright light in the area of the adoption of some relevant cultural legislation. The fact is that such bright lights were not really much at this time, so I welcome this proposal even more and in some ways thank our colleague Dragan Matić, who insisted that the law had come to this moment. Because the fact is that we have had similar proposals in the past, in past mandates and that they have somehow remained in drawers, but now we are just before we adopt this law. I think it is the law on the realization of public interest in culture that is indeed the law in which this proposal or this proposal we are talking about is that in some ways we are trying to aestheticize the function of urban space. I'm really sorry we didn't keep the original version of the law. Of course, the problem is that we would probably have very serious problems in realizing it. But I am sorry for the reason that I think the biggest problem in cultivating public space is actually in the field of our communities, local communities. If you are from some small places and cities, I think it would be hard to remember or at least some of them may – I do injustice to some, but still – to remember when the congregation or your mayor put up some artistic work, some architectural monument, bought graphics or art work or some work of artistic value. Previously, in the position of the Ministry of Culture, the minister mentioned those infamous circles. I also put this problem on the committee myself, because I don't think it's a problem that at these entrances to cities and places, there are some more or less strange sculptures that take us into town, into the city. We are not talking about the fact that this is now a terrible problem; the problem is only because these mayors or many mayors and citizens think that this is some kind of artistic work and that they have somehow covered their obligation to culture. For this reason, I regret that somehow we cannot as a country give a clear sign that our mayors, our local communities, are also responsible for caring for the cultivation of public space. I say, once again, I apologize to all those who have also given our original proposal a green light and were for this to be accepted, but, as I have said, these ambitious goals may yet be in the future, when we will also see how this proposal, which we have now adopted, will take place, not on a mandatory but recommended share. I think that it is on all of us, in all of our cultural policies – even in the municipal councils – to really establish this non-binding but recommended share of culture and to help our public spaces get better aesthetic images. Of course, I have a question about why a country can, why we as citizens in some other role as citizens, even though we are one and the same – citizens and citizens. Here I feel that sometimes a discussion, even when we talk about the congregations, the demands of the state to the congregations, and the congregations — what they have to do with the country — would be necessary. But probably today, as far as culture is concerned, it's not exactly a place to talk a lot about it. I think it is right that we have stepped back so that we can take two steps forward, so I will not support this, perhaps a well-intentioned proposal made by the Left. Conscious of the importance of culture or of some cultural recognition and elegance of the city should become the way local authorities operate, and this is the purpose of this law or recommendation. This is how I picture the future of culture in local politics. We also talked about the position of artists. Previously, it was kind of said that it was just art artists. Yeah, it's true. We're talking a lot about art. The art of art, which today is extremely exposed in terms of the position of art artists in our society. It is the majority of some holiday jobs, for the art market, of course, not to work at all. Very interestingly, there was already talk here about an art market that once worked, such as socialism, which also worked shortly after independence, when with some tax incentives they received a greater incentive for their performance also by art artists. Remember those discounts on income for, like, buying art works. These were some periods which, however, meant some positive direction towards a better position of art. Today the situation is completely different and we cannot say that this law will now revolutionize, but it will certainly make a positive move and that is, I think, one of the good aspects of this law. But let's also have more space for some new ideas, let's listen to the culturers, let's listen to the good mayors, those mayors who think the way I've just discussed. Let us also look abroad; I don't know, smart cities, cultural tourism, not least a different view of architecture with some greater art participation going abroad. All of this is what we think about in this marriage. If we think more broadly, I think there is nothing wrong, so I may be surprised by some views of opposition parties in this House, who have been looking here only and only one piece of this law or this content, which I think is also wrong. It is difficult to create a general awareness and a social awareness of the importance of culture. But with a number of such laws, with a number of such thoughts, we may come to the realization of some social awareness. Perhaps only Mr Bassin's sentence would add to this, which is one of the few which has also come forward in the public media in connection with this law, with the exception of a few presentations which were related to the law. In fact, he said: "The law brings one key measure in the public interest in the field of art in public space. In view of the fact that this is a comprehensive and substantively completed whole, the time has certainly come for this measure to be implemented.” I just wanted to say, somehow, that it is time for us to adopt such a law and, of course, I suppose, given the support that has been discussed, that we Members will also adopt this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u47	Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Minister, dear colleagues; I repeat, there will be no mistake. In my position, I have welcomed once again, and if you like, I very much welcome the purpose of this law. But the solution is partial, indeed, and the colleague said before, it is mainly art artists or art works. I hope you didn't think of me, either, when I mentioned local communities, I'm not a fanatic defender of local communities in this case, but we could have solved this matter in a much different way. Look, we also have good artists in the countryside, in the Pannonian lowlands, in Prekmurje, if you like. There is significantly less investment than in central Slovenia or, if you want, in Ljubljana. So our absorption capacity is significantly lower for artistic work there, and if we are already solving this issue and we need to solve it in its entirety, not in part, so that this law, I hope, will soon be recast, then we must, dear colleagues and colleagues, focus first on what is most ours. What is this – this is our mother tongue! You let him go, and I regret that you let him go, that's our greatest treasure. And then, of course, architecture. You will not believe it twice, once in 2008, when Plečnik's year – the minister will confirm – I gave the Minister of Culture and the Minister of Infrastructure the initiative to add the directional link to the Plečnik church of Bogojina. All tourists who come to Prekmurje want to see Plečnik's church. Isn't that some public interest in culture, for architecture? You think I did it? I got hit! The Minister of Culture greeted me, was impressed with my idea, oh, Minister Gasperšič had 351 or 365 excuses that it was not possible for the local community to give something. What a local community if the highway is owned and supplied by Darsa and so on!? Tell us how much it costs, and we will throw the money together for this poor sight of Plečnik's Church of Bogojina. The Ambassador of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia cannot achieve this! In Plečnik's year! So there is still an idea, which once was one Minister of Culture – one former, not your predecessor – said: “Let the Plečnik go! Ročnik is not a development, Plečnik is a Pasé.” But I'm not going to talk about Plečnik now. I listened attentively to Dr. Matic, who said that the congregations were exempt and that this was given only as a recommendation. I would not take them out; I say once again that municipalities invest in art art as equipment for new buildings, but if it is some consistent regional development and help art artists also on the periphery – you know, Slovenia is not only Ljubljana, I have recently had this feeling – then let the municipality invest there in Pannonski bottom, as you originally predicted here, in art works, let the country subsidise it. That would be a good move. But you did not exempt the municipalities and, Mr President of the National Assembly, would ask that, by the end of the debate, the Legislative and Legal Service indicate whether, in Article 79a, the third paragraph is indeed exempt from the municipalities. Since it reads, “except local authorities and public law persons whose founders are local communities”. See the Law on Local Self-Government and read in the official consolidated text No. 28, I read this, “The municipalities or local community bodies are the municipal council, the mayor and the supervisory committee”. Are these organs investors? They're not! Who's the investor? Schools, kindergartens, cinemas and so on? Who? Community! So, you in this law, if I am going to watch in the Czech Republic – and therefore I ask the President to give an opinion on this dilemma, which I underline, whether in the third paragraph of Article 79a the municipalities, namely the local communities, are indeed exempt from this measure. Not according to my understanding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u49	Mr. Dragan Matić has the floor. As a proponent, of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. In a way, it is sad that we have Members who are members of some parliamentary groups who have not attended a meeting of the Committee on Culture at all and who ask the questions that have been raised there, not once, but several times already cleared up. There were no Members from New Slovenia, two Members from the SDS signed, then they left, it was clear from the tape that none of these two groups had a representative to discuss, which I regret. If they were there, they would have all these answers to the questions they are asking today. This is essentially some of the dilemmas that are in some way also very unusual, because Mr Horvat is now in this way, if I start from the end, is dealing with the legal and legislative service. The Legislative and Legal Service has already given its opinion, including on these matters which it is asking about the dictatorship of Article 79a, and has had no comments on the inconclusiveness of anything here. I do not know if it is common for such dilemmas and challenges to the Rule of Law to be raised at this stage of the legislative process, once again to provide an explanation. I don't know if that's exactly what the rules of procedure are. But, well, Mr. Horvath, he can only ask what he thinks is appropriate. To welcome the purpose of a partial solution. Mr Horvat says that we could have a significantly different solution because there is a poor absorption capacity in the countryside. I don't know how you can imagine that right now. To set up a fund in which money would flow, then, I don’t know, share — or how? Maybe this way. I don't know, I think he was a little unclear here in his debate. This law or amendment of the law was designed to have no centralising effects, as opposed to the proposal for a law introduced by Mrs Maja Shirca in the legislative procedure mentioned above, this law is different in that it does not provide for a fund, it does not provide for an institution where newly employed bureaucrats would first, when collected, redistribute this money, under certain criteria again. It is a simple principle that any investment, any investor, wherever this investment is already being made in the country, must have a compulsory share in art and must be integrated into any such public facility or public space. He must also be inseparably connected to it. As a result, it is difficult to establish that the law is discriminatory because it should also take into account the mother tongue. In order for the mother tongue to be integrally connected to an object, it is difficult to imagine how other forms of art could be integrally linked to an object, it is also difficult to come up with legislation somewhere. However, I must say that this proposal did not come about yesterday when this law was already mentioned by Mrs Shirca. It should be pointed out that this novel has also been created on the basis of some of the expert analyses carried out in 2011, on the basis of a survey on how this is regulated in European countries where this measure has been in force for a decade. In a similar way, we have taken into account these professional findings, which were made at the time and constitute the professional basis for this today's proposal of the law, all of which have been taken into account, so that the artistic share is not strictly replaced in this law, but according to good practice in Europe and in accordance with the views of the Legislative and Legal Service, it is necessary, because it is a matter of public resources, that is to say, to some extent to clarify and link with the object to which the funds are intended. What Mrs Anja Bah Žibert said was a kind of compulsion. How and how the country will force itself is hard to imagine. It is a commitment that the state must take into account in its investments this artistic share or plan to be integrated with the objects that are being created. To deal with the congregations, I have to go back to what I said before. If the SDS colleagues were present at the meeting, we would see that all of these things have been cleared through the debate and that all of these doubts about the coercion of the municipalities have also been rectified by appropriate amendments. In this way, of course, we want to clear every shadow of doubt in this measure, which we have been implementing for many years, too late in Slovenia. Our interest here is quite clear: we do not want to participate in this game of showing muscle between the municipalities and the country. Among these constant indications that the municipalities are allocated a small proportion of the average share of the funds or, on the other hand, by the State, that municipalities are too poorly organised to cooperate enough to have too few common municipal administrations and so on. We don't want that. However, we are convinced that only a truly large part of the congregations opposed, including municipal associations, and there are also municipalities that welcome this measure, as mentioned by Ambassador Tomić. These will have a good enough basis in the recommendation contained in our novels if they want it to be prescribed in the statutes of the congregation for themselves, if they so wish, and that they will be able to do so. Of course, the country here must be a good example, with a case of good practice, and this is nothing unusual. We already have such a similar mechanism today, we have it in Norway, where it is combined, where we have state investment, which is an obligation, and we have municipal investment where this recommendation is. And it both works very well. And it's not one or two years, it's a decade. We also have neighbouring Italy, which is known for its importance. In fact, it's one of the most important industries they have. There is a legal share, this legal percentage of the artistic share, set at 2% of all public investments. But I don't know if there's any terrible noise there, that there's forced or raped municipalities, and that the municipalities are going to be financially ruined because 2 percent of their public investments they're making are going to be dedicated to artistic participation. No, there is a social awareness at a slightly different level than we do, there they know precisely that it is their interest, that it is not a cost, and they know exactly that it is important to take this into account when planning the investment itself. What a pity we have in recent years is that this artistic share is provided subsequently, somewhat consistently and somewhat domestically, and that is why the money invested is so much less used. This is also one of the basic purposes of our marriage proposal, or in this direction, to make sure that the relevant experts in the field of various types of art participate in the expert committee and that it will be the professional one who will tell us what this artistic share will be, not politics, not political validity at local or national level. This is the basic point of how we get to what artistic participation is in concrete cases. That the congregations today oppose this, at least some or most of them, if we are found to be honest, but some do, points to a different level of perception of this issue, as well as a different history. If we look at Ljubljana only as an example of the practice where the artistic share is built in practically every step and that cultural tourism, as it has to this extent, is also being ensured in Ljubljana today, this is the fact that it is due to previous generations. For the past 20 or 30 years, there have been fewer such investments. Perhaps in Ljubljana, if we are specifically talking about it, we have the Butcher Bridge, where we have statues or sculptures that are truly artistic surpluses and this is an example of good practice, but unfortunately very rare. Speaking of Ljubljana, we have an example of some practice – Plečnik's markets as an essential cultural monument in which this artistic share is incorporated. These markets were implemented, you will not believe, during World War II; in times of the worst misery and shortages, municipal investment took into account the artistic share. In view of today's neoliberal view, we don't have to do everything we have there. It should be enough that these are some simple shovels where sellers can hide from the storm and have some basic sanitary conditions. Also Tromosts, there's an artistic stake in it, but you don't have to. Why? It would be enough to have some simple eyebrow to come from point A to point B across a river and it's safe enough for that pastureman not to fall into Ljubljana, normally to have a fence. But no, our ancestors were aware that the importance of public space was significantly greater. And that is the good example that we must follow today, and that is why we are also striving to see this come into law, because unfortunately in recent decades this has been neglected. What was once self-evident is, unfortunately, no longer self-evident today, because investment is too often thought only in terms of lowering costs and maximizing certain profits, and this is a completely wrong approach that will not lead us particularly far. If I stop with these amendments proposed by the Left. I can agree that even at the local community level, this is an eminent public interest, which some unfortunately do not recognize there – I believe it will be sooner or later. But to return the original text, we can only, as it is said, cast a shadow of doubt on this measure, we can once again be exposed to the obvious that something constitutionally controversial is that it is some violence against local self-government – which I do not believe in, I think it is only about establishing a standard. The artistic share should be the standard prescribed, such as the sanitary standard in public buildings, in a similar way. I do not personally believe this is a matter of forcing congregations here, but in order to avoid any shadow of doubt, understand your colleagues in Levica that your amendment, with which to return the original text, cannot be accepted. The same applies to private investment, which should also be committed to taking account of a certain part of art in the case of these private investments. I have no doubt that such an amendment, which would have been adopted, would have been regarded as constitutionally incompatible or disproportionate and, after our assessment of the Constitutional Court's procedure, would not have survived, and that would be a shame, because we would have jeopardized the amendment in its entirety. We would put at risk all the positive measures it brings. To begin with, I propose that we go moderately, with small steps, when this measure will in practice be carried out positively when it is also accepted in the general public – and I believe that, as far as this is concerned, I am optimistic – then I am almost sure that the municipalities and private investors will follow it, because it will be a simple trend or way of thinking here, at one point break. This is exactly the role the country plays in setting a positive example in promoting this sentiment in the sense that we are talking about today. As for the issue of the fact that the municipalities are the bearers of most investments, I have to object in some way, as financially this is certainly not the case. Looking at the financial impact, the investments made by the State are significantly higher by rank. Construction, such as the Pediatric Clinics, 60 million — is not done by the congregations. Also on the periphery, the state is building, investing in secondary schools, police stations, administrative buildings of different types, from administrative units, various public institutions, agencies, I think, although at the moment the whole matter will be limited to state investment, it will still have a positive impact on the periphery, not just Ljubljana or central Slovenia. As it is said, over time we will also be able to think about improvements in this measure, as we are now taking, in how it can be further upgraded or refined. I believe that in a few years' time we will be able to discuss how to improve this law in a more positive atmosphere and a positive consensus. Thank you for now. If we have to, we'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u51	Procedurally, Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Chairman. I'm just asking you to warn the proposer that he's listening to his point of view. If I had listened to the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which I personally presented, then I would not have come at odds with myself when he said that, with the amendment, they had essentially changed the provision that local communities should or should take care of this share and that this could be constitutionally disputed. He talked about it and talked about coercion, I also talked about coercion in position, and I also said that the amendments on the parental committee changed this attitude towards local communities and that they were recommended. It is such a pity that Mr Matić mentioned that someone did not follow the preparation of this law because it is not true. But I'm going to apply for the content itself, but I think it's necessary, because it wasn't as well told as it was interpreted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u53	Thank you very much. I believe that the proposaler has heard and will have the opportunity to further deepen your opinions on the application. That's why I'm inviting you. I'm inviting you to sign up for the debate. The application shall be made. Mr Saša Tabakovic has the floor. Please. [[advertising from the hall]] Excuse me? I'll do it. You'll have a chance to sign up. Mr. Sasa Tabakovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Just a few additions to the discussion of the predecessors ahead of me. It seems to me that when we talk about the absorption of art or culture on the so-called periphery, we need to be a little more careful. Because it seems to me that, even if you want, the absorption or the supply of culture or art on the so-called periphery can be much greater than that at first sight. But that seems like a real topic for another time. What I think is important is what has also been highlighted, and I fully agree that the difference between the amendment of the law and Mrs Shirce's proposal is precisely that the proposal envisaged centralisation in some way, and this proposal does not follow. This means that there are certain investors anywhere in the country, not only in certain centres, and what is particularly important, it is not the commitment of municipalities, that municipalities also participate when they invest in an investment in a way that the state would do, but that it is an exclusive proposal or recommendation. However, as regards private investors, there is something else that needs to be highlighted. We are not able to communicate; each private investor understands his own investment in some way. Even if we look at architectural competitions, they can be very different in some aesthetic sense. I think that if the state encourages by law investment in the development of some aesthetic space, then it seems to me that it is necessary, in essence, to leave private people here to decide for themselves how this aesthetic space is understood. Since some private investors already understand this very, very well today, the results of their plans are also appropriate. However, if someone does not have some ambition in this regard, it is one of his completely personal personal decisions and I feel that there is a need to insist on doing so. Because at the final stage, as we have heard, if they were to be bound to do so, this could actually be constitutionally controversial. So I think that time will certainly also show private investors what investing in the development of some aesthetics means, even in the image, and I think that some private investors are already very, very well aware of it today, and also take that into account, and others will, if I may say so, “come up soon”. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u55	Mrs Violeta Tomic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u56	Thank you. I look forward to this constructive debate on our amendments and, in fact, the principle support of coalition Members to our proposal that the obligation of artistic participation should extend to private investors. I would like to point out that our amendment does not want to extend this mandatory artistic share to all investors. The artistic share measure proposed would apply only to those investments worth more than EUR million and also to those buildings or properties that are mostly accessible to the general public and, as such, have some obligation to the public and to that space. My colleague Matić said that he is optimistic and I too, because we have taken the first step in this direction, but I think we can take other steps too, because constitutionally there is no conflict, because Article 67 of the Constitution states that the law provides for a way to acquire and consume property, so that its economic, social and environmental function is ensured. Then we also have the first paragraph of Article 5, which stipulates, inter alia, that the State, I quote, “Cares for the preservation of natural wealth and cultural heritage and creates opportunities for a coherent civil and cultural development of Slovenia”. This is a measure that promotes cultural development throughout the country. In short, one concerned that this State investment measure would have a centralising effect. Yes, of course, state investment is mostly in larger urban centres and somehow implies a centralisation effect, but if municipalities were also obliged, it would be a decentralised effect. I am also deeply saddened by the debate of my colleague from New Slovenia, Mr Horvath, who is unfortunately not present, but I would rather see him hear. At first he said that we must first focus on our mother tongue; here we are at least two Members, me and colleague Tabakovic, who are somewhat familiar with the noble artistic word, so our discussions are also quite short and somehow closed. I think that would be a good practice, because we know you've been listening to a man for 10 to 15 minutes, then your concentration's dropping. The mother tongue is preserved daily through the theatre, which is a living art, all the time present. We do not know what the theatre looked like – we know because we studied it – 100 years ago, but today you have the opportunity to hear the noble artistic word immediately in many institutions, in many theatres, through film and so on. We have reading rooms, we have libraries where you can read the rich mother tongue, but art is not available to us right now. We don't know what art artists are creating right now, and we need to give them the opportunity to put the image on display. Without it, it's nothing. A painter at home in the studio painting and living next to a piece of bread means nothing to Slovenian culture. Yes, on February 8th, when all the well-dressed politicians, the economists, even the tycoons show up at Cankar's home and they are thrilled to remember at the cultural holiday that we also have artists. But this does not mean anything to an artist who has to survive today in this neoliberal economy, where there is no market. So we have to make sure that this artist is able, for the first time, to survive, then to create. It wouldn't be wrong for some malls to have people who don't usually go to the gallery, because sometimes they have to pay the entrance fee, and they can see something beautiful in addition to the billboards. It wouldn't hurt us. I do not believe that I will receive support for this amendment, but I am very pleased that we have opened this debate, that we may be hearing and that we may be thinking somewhere in the future, as the proponent says, which is optimistic, in this direction too. For, look, if we don't start the darkness, if we don't talk about it, then it's very difficult to get some movement in our heads. For for 20 years we have been talking only about economic growth, maximising profits and so on, minimizing costs and so on. We recommend municipalities, we say. We made a recommendation. But until now, it has not been forbidden for the municipalities to invest in art. I don't know if this recommendation really makes any difference to us. Regarding the debate, too, my colleague Horvath would say that it might be possible for a colleague to think differently when he says why art, why not encourage architecture. See, it is necessary to know that art includes a very broad concept and that art includes not only painting, sculpture, but also architecture, as well as landscape architecture; it includes graphics, industrial design, and all of this is part of these buildings that we see today as our cultural heritage. It's not just a painter, whether we pay him for the painting now or not. It's a complete image of a building. So I think that there would be nothing wrong with private investors that one percent - our proposal is, of course, for investments that exceed a million euros, we are talking about a minor amount again, but we might force them to make these halls, these industrial trading establishments more friendly to people, so that these people will still get such, a little nicer because, look, it's not just some shopping-bedrooms, it's about accommodations, it's about places where we feel better. [[…]] That is precisely why I think it would be good to think in this direction and, as it is said, I am very happy that we have opened up a conversation about this. Our amendments will, of course, be supported by us in Levica, for you who have most of the votes, I don't know, but I am glad that you do realize that they are going in a good direction, because art artists do have the worst position among all artists. It is good that you have detected this, that you have taken a step forward in this direction, I hope it is not the last, but it is definitely the first in the right direction. But I think that for complete cultural production, we need to look at it so that we don't really think about art and artists just on a cultural holiday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u57	Dr. Angie Logar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u58	Thank you, Chairman. This is a difficult and difficult debate. The fact is that cultural workers, culturers and those living with culture have very difficult living conditions. I can say this myself because I come from an artistic family; my father is an academic painter; my mother is an academic painter; they have spent their entire lives in the market. It used to be, sometimes it wasn't. Now, here's the thing. It is somewhat unusual to monitor that a party belonging to liberal internationalism proposes a planned economy by quota. I find it difficult to accept the applicant's argument, Mr Matić, that it is a good example of Ljubljana. However, Ljubljana is an explicitly poor example. See, it privileged only one, only one of them always had business, and where cultural heritage, market or Ljubljana Stadium were to be preserved, it was to be kept away. I think that Mr Matić has even voted that the missed project in the stadium, which is so terriblely failing, is being extended for another two years. Now, here's the thing. When do you buy a picture? When do you want it or when do you have to? If you buy it when you want it, you develop good art, quality art, if you have to, whatever. You're making rents, and if I'm doing some caricatures right now, then your logic is that artists are the greatest supporters of the second track. Look, there's going to be a billion and a half, that's 15 million euros for art. Here! Who wouldn't be in? Who wouldn't be in favour if they had such an open budget in front of them? The Commission, or those who will decide – I apologize for the vote – who will decide what works are bought, will be the ones who will create first-class and second-class artists. Those who are allowed to buy their works will become richer, those who will not, or will have to adapt, know the right persons, or starve to death in the market. This will bring, or will do, this law, and this is the worst thing that can happen to art — to mold it. Art needs to be developed and developed by educating young people, for the first time, from the earliest age, to visit a gallery, to raise them in the sense of art, to develop this sense. You're proposing Norway as a model. Yes, look, Norway gives 10,000 euros to everyone to create a home first, gives him the opportunity to live normally, to create a family, has the standard of a normal person – not to survive with a minimum wage – and then make a wish for a good job and put it on a wall and this central exhibit, which he inspires every time he enters his apartment. And this one will buy a picture. Yeah. And then you can have the quota. I agree with what my predecessor said. If those who work remain at the studio, it does no good to anyone. But look, you can solve this by publishing an exhibition of all artists, not just buying out some of their works. Just some. If the Modern Gallery buys Janez Janša's brand and we give our money to taxpayers – excuse me, how will we develop good art in this way? Let me get this over with. Look, this fresco in front of the National Assembly is the work of my grandfather, Mr. Peng. When he made 10 meters of this fresco, a delegation came with Mattia Cat on the forehead, smoking cigars, drinking whiskey and so on, he looked at the fresco and said: "I don't like these faces. Delete the fresco!" And he even had to paint the fresco on a new one. Look, this is the planning economy that you want to put into effect: these works will be good, and these works will not be good! Excuse me, once again, I come from an artistic family and I know that art doesn't develop that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u59	Representative of the proposer Dr. Dragan Matić, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u60	It is sad to listen to Dr. Logar, who, as he himself says, comes from an artistic family. I know that he is not a member of the Committee on Culture, but he could have tried and read the law if he wanted to discuss it. 79.b., which I will now quote because Mr Logar was saying how happy the artists of the second track will be because they will get – I think he said 10 million from the title of this investment. 79.b. reads: "The artistic work measure in public investment projects is carried out by an investor in the design and implementation of all public investment in the new construction or restoration of public property" and then goes on, "the measure does not need to be implemented in the case of economic public infrastructure other than green and other public areas, and with the economic infrastructure of connected properties which are publicly accessible". It is said that the second track is out of the question, unless a waiting room is being built within this second track in Cyprus, this is where people gather when they go on a train or train, where there is a large frequency of pastures and where, of course, it is in the public interest that this space also has an artistic share. Mr Logar, if you ever go on a trip to Porto in Portugal, you will see a railway station and when you step into this railway station, you will see a huge relief, a very beautiful art work that shows the whole Portuguese history. If you are, which you probably are, but if you are not, you will probably travel to Moscow or London, where you have a subway, you will find that each station or almost every station has an artistic share. This is the part where it is expected that an artistic share will also be invested in economic public infrastructure when it comes to a public space where people are walking. It is said that this debate about how 10 million artists would come into being is some "fake news", which one of the media has already been spreading and now you are unfortunately repeating here too, but it is already necessary to deny it because of the public and because of the magnetogram. With regard to these speculations that it is a planned economy and how politicians like Cat Mattio will walk with cigars and with whiskey to a poor shaky artist who is starving to order how to make an art that they will like, but not that the fruit of some artistic freedom or of some professional judgment should be read the law again. But, Mr Logar, you didn't have time to read it, so now I have to read it publicly so that the public doesn't live in the wrong that you want to spread. “The procedure for implementing the measure. The works referred to in the first paragraph of the preceding Article shall be selected in the tendering procedure. The public competition for the selection of works of art shall be conducted by an investor in cooperation with the expert committee for the selection of works of art. The expert committee for the selection of works of art is appointed by the investor, most of the members of the committee are appointed by the list of experts published on their websites by the Ministry of Culture. The other members shall be appointed by the investor of their choice. The Ministry shall establish and maintain a list of experts referred to in the previous Article on the basis of a public call. The list of experts includes all experts working in the field of Fine Arts – in armor – (Cyprus, Painting, Design, Photographs, Critics) – lock – intermediate art, interior and landscape architecture and cultural heritage. The list shall be updated monthly.« So this will bring together a set of experts who will decide which art is suitable for an object of a public character, such as Parliament. This will not come with a cigar in your mouth and a glass of whiskey in your hand and determine, as you insinuate in this place, absolutely unnecessary. Therefore, it would probably be much more appropriate to discuss how to further improve this intention, which you are saying is actually a planned economy. At this point, I wonder if there is a planning economy for you in Italy, if there is one in the United States of America, if there is one in Canada, if there is one in Austria; if all of these countries operate in this area on the basis of a planned economy, Mr Logar. I don't think so. I think that these are countries where liberal democracy has been embedded for decades in a system where the market economy is something that predominates, and of course all these countries also know the public interest and therefore all public investments incorporate an artistic share. In Italy, as an example, 2% of participation in artistic participation is compulsory. Is that a plan economy? I don't think so. As far as the case of Ljubljana is concerned, it is only here that we respond because it has been stated that Ljubljana is a bad case. I would not dare to play the role of art critic and to assess that the Butcher Bridge, for example, was poorly performed in terms of artistic participation or that there was again some policy with a cigar in time directed to the artist how it must do so. I highly doubt it. This is all I have mentioned as a rare example of positive practice when the artistic share of a public investment has been taken into account in recent years, when we are talking about the range of the last 10 years. Now, as far as the refugee sports park is concerned; yes, I agree, this is a disgrace to be removed. In this context, the World Party Group of the Modern Centre has taken the Council's initiative to provide the Municipality of Ljubljana, as one of the stakeholders in the Belgrade Sports Park, with the other co-owners, with the initiative that the Refugee Sport Park should at least be temporarily dissolved until all legal problems are resolved – and we know that in the courts, we know that the procedures under way with the ministries are still going to take, not two years, but five years – that at least the Temporary Refugee Sports Agency will be no longer an embarrassment and that it will be made publicly available for some recreational purposes. As far as this is concerned, keeping the Modern Centre Party clear is clear, and it is also clear what we stand for. However, if we voted in favour of extending a contract, see, even if we voted against it, we would not have solved anything, because just breaking up the Treaty of the Refugee Sports Park would not have solved it. So much for a little while. Of course, if I have to, I'll call you later.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u61	Dr. Ange Logar's replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u62	President, it's hard to replicate someone who obviously doesn't understand. I've read the law, and I know it, and that's why I'm saying it's inappropriate. I would ask if anyone then uses these personal ones, I'll say, referring to old parents or parents, anyone, being at least a little respectful about it, and not talking about shaking hands and so on. Let me correct Mr. Matić, and let him listen to me well, and before he replicates, let him listen if I tell him. I said two words, "if I caricature" and I used a comparison of the second track. Yeah. Now once again, if you tell an artist that the face has to be so that the dress has to be blue, that the hair has to roll up, you've done the greatest damage to art, the greatest harm to art. I understand that Mr Matić does not understand this, but I understand that I come from an artistic family, and I believe that Mrs Tomic understands this too and anyone else has ever lived with art or has been in this circle. I believe the minister understands that, too. But unfortunately, if the law is proposed by someone who doesn't understand it at all, because he doesn't have that feeling, because he doesn't have that sense, then the law comes along as it is. That's all I wanted to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u63	Mr. Tabaković, do you have a replica or a debate? I invite you to sign up for the debate. Here you go. Check in. Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Chairman. In most cases, I agree with Dr Logar in his debate, although Mr Trček will say again that I cannot from the SDS. I welcome the exclusion of municipalities from the obligation to finance this. But then what's left? As far as public procurement is concerned, public procurement from public funds is mainly the resources of municipalities and states, plus others, but mainly investments are state-owned. What can they get out of these public buildings, which are mainly state-owned if public economic infrastructure is excluded, and what will then come into these small congregations? Nothing. There are museums, some cultural homes in the city’s municipalities, and this is in major municipalities. In small municipalities, however, public economic infrastructure with public state money, which is not municipal, is being built if it is being built. However, all municipalities through primary schools – and the minister was also mayor for some time – well knows how much money the municipality devotes to this activity also through primary schools, some art exhibitions, accelerates these matters in municipalities; from municipal money, not from some public investment. When the primary school is being built or kindergartened, this law exempts it, since these small congregations have the task of bringing healthy drinking water to the people first, and there is something else to do with their basic activities. And all of this is going to be practically left in the big municipalities, all of this money because it's such public buildings that are built in the main centres, if there's no public economic infrastructure in here, which I think is right. But the one who pays, usually who orders something, also tells what it should look like. I'm giving it to Mr. Logar right here. To “how” some experts include Yes, but who include them? [[…]] Who's going to choose? As the state often says, but we have nothing here, here are the independent experts that we have appointed. Are they really independent? Those who are socially fit! That's the problem. We also have in the congregation an honorary citizen, sadly already a late, academic painter Jožet Slak Đoko, who was also helped by the congregation. I know how he lived because he lived in our congregation. It has been known not only in Slovenia but the municipality can do little. [[…]] Many times we went to his aid, and he did much good for the congregation and we are proud of him. We have Loyzet Slak, Tonet Pavček, and we will now give for a museum room and an exhibition of one-year investment money to the municipality so that we can set something decent for them. The state doesn't give anything here. Although we have other tasks, we are aware of the importance of these people. And more should probably be given, as the colleague said, at the beginning of the youth, in primary schools, that it is also where the art begins to grow, that talent is also there to be found and developed.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u65	Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u66	Thank you so much for saying that. We have already talked about local communities, but now the law somehow provides for corrections to be recommended. I think this is the only smart thing to do, but I think the proposaler himself has found that there is a great constitutional dispute; but look on the other side now. At the end of the day, we are all taxpayers and, as long as the law remains an obligation to so-called state investments, it has also forced this. Well, taxpayers will have to spend so much and so much investment on artists. Now look on the other side, we have a local community, look, they don't even have the space to do some theater show. They don't. But when there's an investment, you didn't know how to answer that. For many investments are being built together, locally and nationally – what does this mean? Will this share or will it not be compulsory, the congregation will receive so much less money for the underlying investment? In short, this law neither saves nor defines. Look, earlier it was said, "Silent furnace." Mirna Pec has two great people, it has been said; Mr Slak and Mr Pavček. Everything they do to promote this, they are working alone, from their own resources, from their own resources now. Now the primary school, which was being built and where the state was supposed to be co-financed, put it on hold. When she receives this share in the future, she will have to devote a share of her resources to such artistic work, even though she struggles to create or regulate at least what she has in the congregation a cultural and domestic, original, which they are proud of. I don't understand why you're hiding this. Give the Ministry of Finance so much and so much more a percentage of the budget and say what, it is said, only for artists, and you will soon see that the entire cultural sphere will be up. Because they're gonna say why for them, not for us. Of course, this is in some way a hiding for the use of taxpayer money, for it will encourage investments. Now you're going to say that in a small amount. It doesn't matter what the share is, it's about the relationship to all culture, to all culture. Well, I just don't agree with this kind of solution. Let the money be allocated for this species within the Ministry and made available. That is to say that an independent and expert commission will be appointed by the Expert Commission by an investor, the investor is a state, that is, a government. [[…]] On the other hand, a part of the commission will be appointed by the minister, i.e. the government. Don't talk to me about political neutrality! Don't talk to me about political neutrality! There will be a political commission! Then she'll choose the artists. And it is true that only one and the same will be the same, and you will throw sand in others' eyes because they will apply for different invitations, poor people, and believe that someone will see or hear them. That, in fact, the minister is still silent today, and he also says [[microphone dig]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u67	Mr. Saša Tabaković, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u68	Thank you very much. I fully agree with what Mr Logar has said that art cannot, of course, be categorized if we want to talk about art, which has a broader or larger range than, say, generally expected. In fact, this anecdotes, which he said — if we can call it an anecdotes — can be tragic, we can call it tragic, but certainly very fair. But one other thing would, in fact, focus that has now taken place in the debate might turn a little bit. Why? Of course, on the one hand, we can say that we do not have markets at the moment, as far as art works are concerned. Surely, in a certain sense, this law also encourages the market, if I may say so. On the other hand, what we must not forget is what the basic purpose of the law is, in fact, culturalisation, if you want, or aestheticization of public space. In fact, it was because everything was encouraged by a private initiative and so on and, on the other hand, it was a significant part that, in fact, the aesthetics of space in everyday life were extremely important and that we should not, as a state or as a community, as citizens of everything, leave only one private initiative. Because it is necessary to know: Of course, a person or an individual buys a picture that he likes, but he can only buy it when he can, when he has some existential potential to do so. I think that when we talk in some way about promoting the art market, that we must not forget the basic purpose, but that is aesthetics visible, because we are also raising some civilisational level of the environment in which we live. This is also an extremely important point of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u69	Before I give the word "magic." Let me give Rajic the word of mag. Grimes for procedure. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u70	Thank you. In view of the fact that it has now been repeatedly stressed that it is a matter of communication, which in this law, if I quote exactly the speaker, "it also gives you the opportunity to aestheticize the space", then I suggest, Mr President, that you suggest or expect those who support the law and today will say, in terms of the aestheticization of the space, as well as the fact that they actually say in an artistic way, what is it really about, before they speak, first wave the red flag with the sickle and the hammer, shout, lived socialism, maybe they show Marx's capital, perform an oath on it, and by this artistic act show what it is really about. For as socialist a law as you have proposed it, there has not been any in this House in this mandate. In this way, we would express ourselves beautifully, in an artistic way, and we would also give people a nice presentation of what your policy is all about.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Grimes. With all due respect, I don't see the point of doing anything to intervene in this regard, except to give the word mags. Branislav Rajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Hello! This law is not socialist, nor is it discriminatory, as colleague Horvath tried to imply. In fact, the discriminating to non-artists All that is art is visible in space and can therefore be placed in space. [[…]] But you can't put poetry in space and that's why it's not the subject of this law. I do not imagine that a member of the Italian Parliament could have pleaded to exempt himself from the law or to include more poetry, under the pretext that his care for Dante or Petrarka is too great. This initiative and novelties have also not come in an unusual way. The way is extremely normal, and the evidence of the urgent adoption of the law is only part of a set of already-run opposition moves and unconcealed elements of blasphemy. This novel will return to the practice that worked with us until two decades ago, and it is not a planned economy and not a photoshop after the order of February. It is an obligation for the state to allow the citizens, when building buildings and not railways, to nominate the premises in which they are located. Even when it comes to the artistic education of young people, there is no need to agree to the idea that it is enough once a year to take them to the gallery, which, of course, can be in Ljubljana or Maribor. What about the children inside the country? Their ability to get to the gallery is not that easy, but to come to a public building and watch it on television or walk around it every day is something else because they also consume artistic work. Let us also imagine the head of the National Assembly without the figurative plastic that is at the entrance, or the courtyard of this hall without a fresco located in the wreath under the ceiling. The transition in Slovenia has certainly, in its insensitiveness to the importance of beauty and harmony in the space, carried out castration of the artistic share of public investment and it is up to us, now that this can go back to this obligation. The current Government has managed to bring about a complete and, of course, very important consolidation of the post-crisis situation, and it is time for artistic works to begin systematically to be created and placed in public spaces. This is an opportunity for all artists, especially for young people, for talented people, for holidays, for busy people, and for the most part self-employed. I cannot help but regret that the mayors have shown no interest in this law and even threatened with veto, and our society has matured again to continue the civilised escape route of leaving traces in the room with artistic works, because the code of our stay at this time and in this room will not be the windows of the buildings we left behind, or the climate of the devices they have cooled, but will be the works of art that we have left to the craftsmen. I am therefore pleased that sculptures, reliefs and intermediate art will mark public spaces and objects in the future. I would be happy if some mayor would remember, although after recommending that he hire some puppeteer to decorate a new kindergarten, that one large doll marks this place and makes it more suitable for children. With this, people, locals and visitors, will bond to space, create sympathy, and not least, the habit of returning to places where we enjoy ourselves. Strengthening the art and general culture of children and young people will thus receive a good compliment. I must briefly say what is not in this law or what this amendment has failed, that is to say that it has excluded from the obligation of border crossings. Unfortunately, we are at a time when the border crossings have become new and because the border crossing is in some way a marking that represents the door of the country, I think there is no better place where there should be an artistic work, an art work that would welcome the coming or returning. Since art and culture are the richest sparks of the spirit, I think that it is too little to be just monetary penalties, and I would also suggest, in the model of transport legislation, whether in any other interaction I would like to see that offenders are also punished, for example, by compulsory drawing, painting or design. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u73	I find that there is still an interest in the debate, so I invite you to report. The application shall be made. Here you go. Dr. Matić, I'm just asking you if you want to be a proponent most likely. I'll give you my word first. Dr. Dragan Matic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, chairman. In the beginning, however, because of the artists themselves, it would be necessary to reject offensive observations that went in the direction of markings, such as those of the political commission and delegated or ordering art by the State or something in this respect. I highly doubt that the institutions that have signed as supporters of this law have been identified in this role. Academy of Fine Arts of the University of Ljubljana, Department of Art History of the Faculty of Arts of the University of Ljubljana, International Association of Fine Critics, Association of Associations of Slovenian Fine Artists, Slovenian Conservatory Society, Society of Restorators of Slovenia and finally Association of European Visual Artists. All these associations are supposed to agree on this issue by the SDS that the victim of a political commission will have yellow or blue hair or something else. I think that generalisation and banalization are very insulting to all artists who are united in these societies or in these international ties. I'm sorry there's been this kind of discussion. I understand that we are political opponents, that we can have different views, but these things should still remain at a certain level, and here they went into the afternoon. I must also reject all these suggestions that the law is unclear or that it is nomotechnically incomplete or that it is inconvenient. As it has been said, the interdepartmental coordination with the Ministry of Public Administration, with the Ministry of Finance, with the Ministry of Culture and also with the Law-Legal Service has been made clear to him, so that these findings, which New Slovenia and the SDS have somehow submitted, were not present at all on the Committee on Culture. Of course, it's very depressed. That this is a socialist law, I don't know, I really don't know how many times I have to say that we are following the developed countries of Western and Northern Europe and North America. This law does not have any vision of following any other countries, no North Korea, no Cuba, but is based on reverse examples of some modern successful companies where the market economy prevails. In conclusion, it is probably still necessary to highlight what has been mentioned several times in today's debate that there are still many challenges ahead. One of these is the promotion of private investors, which can be somehow targeted or encouraged by the State with tax incentives to invest much more in art, culture and also in its investments. As far as the situation of financing culture at municipal or state level is concerned, things are not as uniform as some would like to show when they show the municipalities that they are working hard, but at the same time they are experiencing misunderstandings by the state. There are many situations, they are different, they are not uniform. They will probably need to be cleaned, even when we are dealing with the same law that we are talking about today, but much more comprehensively, much more with the optics of the cultural model that needs to happen. As we speak of these relations between the congregation and the country, we are immediately running into such a graphic case when we are talking about the public institutions set up by the municipalities and in which the municipalities actually have the main word when they decide who is the director, who is the lead, and the predominant financier is the state. It's some thing that's not particularly logical, but called just one prime, because these things aren't completely premeditated, they're a reflection of some past, some times that have brought some other solutions, but today we have to think about it. This law is only one step; it can also be the first step in this direction to try to provide some systemic funding sources, some extra-budgetary sources of funding, which would guarantee that culture will remain in the future, so that it does not depend on the periods of fat and dry cows, various fluctuations on the market, but that it will have some guarantee that it will be taken into account in society as it goes here and as it belongs here. I believe that the law will be adopted, and I also believe that this is just the beginning of some better times, and in this sense, of course, I remain optimistic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to the last debater, Mr Tabakovic, allow me to give the floor first to Anton Persak, Minister of Culture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u76	Thank you. Given that it was apostrophe for me to remain silent, I would like to take advantage of a few minutes that the Government still has in the end and would respond to only two of the concerns expressed in some way. One of the things that has already been mentioned in the debate is that I think there is a need for further emphasis. In particular, post-adoption development, and above all the post-2008 crisis, has led to significant imbalances between individual types of art and culture as well as funding. In particular those types of art and culture in which public institutions operate, more or less, as far as funding is concerned, some have also been lost when the budget falls, much more have been lost to those types where public institutions, as has already been said, are not. One of the most, if I may say so, deficit areas are precisely the area of visual art, including film, and partly books and other. This law, given that there are not many companies as there were sometimes companies with a sense of social responsibility that would buy art for their collections – they are, but they are much less than they used to – could in some way be eliminated, helping to eliminate this imbalance in the area of visual arts. That's one thing. And the other thing is the fear of the profession. As it has been said, the law states that the Ministry of Culture will have a list of experts, but the investor will in fact choose a team to carry out the procedure to choose the most appropriate type of equipment and then those whose work is to be used in this. In doing so, it is not negligible that at least good architects have already prejudged to some extent their projects by predicting whether the rooms for sculptures or by providing for the distribution of wall spaces and so on, what types of equipment will happen. In fact, this is actually part of the project itself in some way targeted. I wouldn't be afraid that there would be some political lists of state artists and something like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u77	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Sasha Tabakovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u78	Thank you very much. It seems to me that I still have to respond to Mr Grimes' implementation, which, in my opinion, has certainly been depressed. I'm sure so that I can be understanding, not twisting red flags with different socialist emblems. What I wanted to say in my implementation is that the aesthetics of the visible have been reduced to advertising panels. And that's the problem. In terms of ethics, so is the aesthetics of the nation, an individual. If Mr. Grimes isn't sensitive, I am.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u79	Colleagues, colleagues, anyone else want to discuss this? I find that no, so I am concluding the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 21st item of the agenda. This also interrupts this agenda item. We're moving to 20. At the end of the day, that's a first-aid defense law. The draft law was tabled by the Government. With regard to this bill, a group of 19 Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Andreja Katič, Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u80	Mr Vice President, Members and Members of Parliament! Today you have before you a package of defence legislation, a proposal for a defence law as a fundamental system law, which regulates the type, scope and organisation of the defence of the country in accordance with Article 124 of the Constitution, and the Service Act in the Slovenian Army, which regulates principles and fundamental relations in the management of military service and labour matters. It should be pointed out that if the proposal for a defence law is not adopted, the service law in the Slovenian Army should also be withdrawn from the procedure. The need for reform of defence legislation appeared practically within the mandates of all governments and sufficient political consensus is needed. In the past, it was only available on specific issues. The Defence Act was passed in 1994 and no longer allows the necessary development of the modern defence system. In preparing the amendments that have already been prepared by the defence ministers in the past, we have re-evaluated them and have taken them into account as much as possible. That is why I thank them on this occasion. The bill is therefore not only the work of this team and this government, but also the result of the work done by former defence ministers in this area. Based on the starting points that we presented to you before the start of its preparation in 2015. At that time, you suggested that we prepare a new law and not just go into changing the existing one. We have also included your proposals and proposals to the general public as far as possible. Interdepartmental coordination was required. As a very good judge of cooperation between the Ministry of Administration and the Slovenian Army, and thank you all for your interest and participation in the preparation. The proposal for a defence law does not change the fundamental elements of the defence system, but builds them up and updates them in almost a quarter of a year's history. We want to ensure the continued operation and development of the defence system, allow for changes in the organisation and way it works and enable the further development of the Slovenian Army within the collective defence system. As some of the most important objectives, I would point out: we have aligned the content with the highest strategic, development and political documents in the field of national security and defence; we are updating the system of organisation and support of the Slovenian Armed Forces, military services and the area of civil or non-military defence; we have a clearer definition of the tasks, competences and relations of the intelligence and security service; we are regulating civil-military cooperation; we have, through both laws, one of the most important objectives, which is also based on the strategic review of defence 2016, followed by an increased interest in employment and retention and related improved status of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces; we have a new comprehensively defined and simplified defence planning; we have enabled a flexible response of the State to potential crises and threats; more precisely defined the tasks of the Slovenian Armed Forces, in particular in terms of protecting the State; we have a new comprehensively defined and simplified defence planning; we have enabled a flexible response to the possibility of bringing the country into a possible transition through a possible crisis and the possibility of bringing it into force. The power to declare an emergency and a state of war shall be vested in the National Assembly. The prohibition of strike shall remain in force for military personnel. For the assessment of the prohibition and it belongs to an allowance of EUR 60. The law preserves the possibility of union association in the defence field. The Ministry's powers are also supplemented by powers in the field of cyber security in the defence field. Dear Members and Members! The security challenges we face daily suggest that we give special attention to security, as a fundamental asset of each society. As has been pointed out several times already in the debates in this Chamber, and in particular in the Defence Committee, it is essential to take measures to improve the situation in the defence system and within this particular situation in the Slovenian Army. The government gives the defence system an adequate priority by providing additional resources and by recasting defence legislation. I am pleased that, through today's debate, we will also get your response to the available solutions in both laws. With your support today for which I am asking you, there will also be an opportunity to try to improve them further in the adoption process with you. I would like to reiterate that the Defence Act requires a two-thirds majority of those present, and without the Defence Act, we cannot continue nor can we continue with the Service Act in the Slovenian Army, and thus with greater improvement of members and members of the Slovenian Army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u81	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, for which it is mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u82	Dear Members, good afternoon! The Defence Act represents the defence framework of the Republic of Slovenia. You could say that it represents a practical Constitution of the Slovenian Army. It was adopted in 1994, which means that from then on, a number of things have changed. Slovenia has joined NATO, at global level things have changed significantly. Amendments to the Defence Act are also needed in this light. We are confident that we need a new defence framework. For this reason, in New Slovenia we especially highlight the five points to be taken into account when preparing this new framework. First of all, NATO membership. Secondly, more frequent and effective action in the event of natural disasters. Thirdly, the correct response in the event of global threats. Fourthly, correct response in case of cyber threats. Fifthly, we need to put a soldier at the centre of everything. This is our five points, five points, where we want to build a new defence law. The current situation in the Slovenian defence system, especially in the Slovenian Army, is not pink. Perhaps the easiest way to describe it is to say that the Slovenian Army is falling apart in a living body, both in a technical and moral sense. In technical terms, it is clear that, since the beginning of the economic crisis, the defence budget has practically halved. It was only money and only for wages. Any serious investment and wider training ran out of money. And with such tight financial resources, it is impossible to develop a good and efficient system. This also left consequences in the morale of Slovenian soldiers. In recent months we have had the opportunity to monitor, we call this a top-level conflict, a conflict between senior Slovenian military officers regarding the acquisition of eight-wheelers. I think it was this particular conflict that pointed to the current situation in the military. We are convinced that three different groups have been established within the army. A group from the former Yugoslav People's Army, a group that comes from later Territorial Defence, and a group that has been trained and educated in allied schools. There are great differences between these individual groups in both mentality and mode of action. And this has been shown intensively in the Slovenian Army lately. If I go back to those five points that we have highlighted in New Slovenia as key in the construction or in the creation of a new law on defence. First of all, I've pointed out that we need to realize that we're part of the NATO Alliance. That's how people decided at the referendum, not the political elite, but most people. We in New Slovenia also stress that for Slovenia, however we turn things around, it is still the most expensive to be part of this alliance. Anything else would mean more defence costs. Those who have a number of problems with NATO’s alliance could honestly say that neutrality also costs, that neutrality is not free. And when they have a number of major problems with why our soldiers appear in operations around the world, it would be right to come out of this soap bubble they are in, and honestly acknowledge that Slovenian soldiers abroad are also taking care of home security. Let me especially point out our contingent in Kosovo, and then our representatives in Bosnia and other parts of the Balkans, these people, these members of the Slovenian Army, are very concrete and effective in caring for peace in the Balkans, and thus for greater security at home. These matters must be taken into account in the drafting of the Defence Act. Next, the second point is to deal more effectively with natural disasters. In recent times, the weather or the environment has changed significantly. Natural disasters are becoming more common. In New Slovenia, we would like to draw up such a defence law that would provide a good basis for the rapid and effective functioning of the Slovenian Army in the event of natural disasters. In the past, some shortcomings or bureaucratic obstacles have proved to be evident, and questions may also arise as to who, when, at what point, can intervene. We want as many of these unnecessary obstacles as possible in this defence law. Above all, we want to develop the technique of the Slovenian Army as much as possible in a two-pronged way, which means that we can use it not only for combat but also for natural disasters. The third point highlighted in New Slovenia is a more effective response to global threats. The fact is that the world is becoming more and more dangerous, that threats are global, that things are changing from today to tomorrow, is why it is also necessary to re-establish a foundation that will allow the Slovenian Army, and thus the entire defence system, to adapt as flexibly as possible to all threats coming from the world. What exactly am I thinking about? I think that it is always necessary to leave the door open and at least the legal possibility, the legal basis for a relatively quick and easy reintroduction of compulsory military service, that the possibility or legal basis for potential territorial defence should be left open again, and not least for greater weight and greater capacity of units for the special operation of the Slovenian Army. This seems to us to be key things for a better response to global threats. Cyber security is the fourth point that we point out in New Slovenia as one of the things that must be taken into account in the preparation of this new law on defence. I don't think I'm overreacting to say that an effective cyber attack can practically cause one country more harm today than an atomic bomb attack. Yeah, it's a bad statement, but it's true. If you know all the dimensions that a cyber attack can cause, then in today's world, where many systems are online, it is clear that with some attack they can virtually collapse all the important functions within one country. Cases from the past are very eloquent. If you look at the Estonian case in 2007, when the Russian cyber attack virtually prevented the state from operating for 14 days, banks, public administration and all other important institutions collapsed. Then we have an even newer Russian attack in 2015 on the power plant in Ukraine, when it is in the middle of the cold, in the middle of the winter without electricity, more than 200,000 customers remain. If we move a little further into the sphere of industrial espionage, blackmail and similar stories, the work of China, then we see that cyberspace has become a battlefield 21. For centuries. He then took a step further in this area because he declared cyberspace beside air, land and sea as one of the areas of action. I think that we are significantly lagging behind here in Slovenia and that cyber security and building our offensive capabilities in cybersecurity is extremely important. As of today, it is necessary to create a basis in the defence law. Our fifth key point is that we want to put a soldier in the center. We are convinced that Slovenia, with other countries, and especially with those entities and facilities that threaten and actually threaten Slovenia, cannot compete with some difficult technique, but we can compete or face such threats mainly with well-equipped and trained soldiers, soldiers with high morals. This can only be a positive competitive advantage for Slovenia in this global world. As a result, the entire defense law should be imposed by placing a soldier, a satisfied soldier, at the centre of the city. When this law on defence, which is before us today, establishes a new framework for the defence of the Republic of Slovenia and the qualified majority needed to amend this law, it is likely that changes will be lasting, which means that what we are about to adopt today will most likely continue for several years. It is therefore important that we be careful and careful about the changes. Once again, I want to make it clear that in New Slovenia we want effective and credible work within NATO, that, secondly, we want rapid action in the event of natural disasters, thirdly, we want greater resilience to global threats, fourthly, greater cybersecurity and fifthly, the military at the heart of the defence system. However, it is clear to us that the framework itself, that the legal basis itself will not be enough. That's why we're gonna need money. And in all things, the defence budget is the key, which unfortunately is not at an envious level in Slovenia at the moment. Within the alliances, we are practically among the worst countries by the percentage of GDP that we are earmarking for defence. Currently, we are spending 1% of GDP on defence, which practically puts us on the tail of NATO countries. There are only three members of NATO behind us. We also have no ideal share, how much money we spend on wages, on operations and then on investments. If you know that this proportion is 50 :20, then in Slovenia everything is practically on the head. Almost 70% of the salary lady. That 2% of GDP for defence spending is not an unattainable target, we are told primarily by the Baltics, which are, at least by the number of inhabitants, economically highly comparable to Slovenia. In the coming years, they will reach 2% of GDP for defence spending, which is why where there is will there is a path. It is clear that our defence system will continue to fail without additional financial resources so that it cannot survive. One thing we should all be aware of together is that if we are already uncreditable in relation to Nate, if we fail to keep what we promised Nate, then we should be honest and accountable at least to our own soldiers. On many defence committees, we are discussing raising the defence budget. Unfortunately, it is only a declaration that we are taking on coalition members how these things need to be improved and the defence budget raised. When it comes to voting and concrete decision-making, their hands become numb. Let me finish. New Slovenia will support the Defence Act at first reading because we want to pave the way for it, because we want to work on this point because, from 1994 until now, things have changed in the world as well in Slovenia. We are confident that the Defence Act needs to be changed and, as I said, we will support it at first reading. Let me make it very clear today that this does not guarantee our votes at second reading. However, our support at second reading will depend on three key things. First of all, we're going to put in some amendments that are going to put a soldier in the center, and we're going to see if these amendments are going to be accepted. Secondly, our support depends on whether the government will earmark 1.1% of GDP for the defence budget in 2018. We are in the stage of budget adoption and we do not think that it is enough to insist only on words if we have a super beautiful marriage, but we do not have the money to effectively provide the defence of the Republic of Slovenia. Because we have also talked very deeply within the Group of Members, how and what to do further, we have made it clear that if you want to, the government should, however, force coalition Members in some way to start providing more resources for the defence budget. We are not asking for the impossible, we are demanding that we come to 1.1% from the current 1%. This means that defence spending is increasing by 0.1% of GDP, which we believe is achievable in 2018. And a third requirement to support the second-reading law in order to stop the union activity of the soldiers. We find it inappropriate and unnecessary for soldiers to organize themselves into a union. This job is extremely specific. There is a ban on the sentence already introduced in this law, and there is no need to allow union action as well. The amendments, the raising of the defence budget and the ban on the trade union activities of Slovenian soldiers will be three key requirements to support this law at second reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u83	Mr Miha Kordiš will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, chairman. It is known that socialists have a completely different view of military defence than the rest of the Slovenian political class. In our view, the task of the military is to defend the state, not to provide a living force for intervention abroad. The proposed law degrades the Slovenian Army to the level of the subcontractor NATO. As a result, the defence capacity of the state is declining and military spending is not adapted to the needs of Slovenia, but to Western rulers. Such armies do not need and cannot afford our citizens. That is why we will vote in Levica against the proposed laws. In the debate, I will highlight those provisions that are most controversial for us. First of all, provisions which violate the principle of separation of the church from the state and which leave the decision on the weapons and use of the army in the hands of the Government. And then forward, also using the army for police purposes. But before I move on to these individual problems, let me hold on to the reasons for our principled opposition. As it is said, the proposed law subordinates the Slovenian Army to the so-called collective defence of NATO. And that's unacceptable for three reasons. For the first time, it is unacceptable because we do not support the policy of military interference in the internal affairs of other countries implemented by NATO. In particular its members: the United States of America, the United Kingdom and France. Secondly, it is unacceptable because the Slovenian Army is no longer an organised whole that could defend the state territory. At the moment, the Slovenian army is a conglomerate of isolated units, which can only operate in a prudent manner within the larger NATO units. And if a military threat came from the West, historically, almost always such a threat came from the West, Slovenia would not have a serious military defence to confront this threat. The third reason we're against it is the cost. Then it requires us to spend 2% of GDP for military purposes. This is twice as much as we consume now, i.e. and significantly more than the military threat to Slovenia or Europe. As long as Slovenia is subordinated to NATO's military planning, military funding will also be subordinated to the interests of foreign military industrial complexes, not to the real needs of our citizens. These Caesar's new clothes of marriage before us, we're not going socialists. We're not going to pretend that what NATO does is a collective defense. Then it was not created to defend Slovenia, but to defend the interests and privileges of Western superpowers in the world. Yeah, maybe until the Warsaw Pact was disbanded, it still seemed that NATO was some kind of defense liaison, but for the last decades, they've been putting thesis on a lie. Then he would and remains the military wing of Western imperialism. This was not clear to our citizens at the referendum in 2003 because the sand in his eyes came from a complex Slovenian political class. But once members of NATO have literally dispersed Afghanistan, Libya and Iraq, the imperialist nature of this relationship cannot be denied. Perhaps this event was far from our people, uncharacteristic, for a long time something abstract. But after 2015, when crowds of refugees knocked on our door from the countries that spread these Western powers, the consequences of Nate's wars also became a Slovenian internal matter. And the only thing a normal country can do in such a case is to step out of the NATO liaison, or before it formally exits, to stop engaging in aggressive interventions. If such a stance can be taken by, say, Ireland, Finland, Austria and other neutral countries, Slovenia can also take it. The government will convince us that Slovenia is safer because of its subjugation to Nate, but that is by no means true. In doing so, the main problem is that the Slovenian Army is not able to defend the country, nor is it able in dreams to defend it with the organisational structure it has and as it is supposed to deepen, to organise general human resistance, such as that organised by the partisan army. The Slovenian army is useful for border police tasks, for the conduct of occupational service in Afghanistan or for NATO propaganda operations in Latvia. However, it is not able to defend the state itself against any more serious military threat, that is what it is meant to be. Fortunately, our country in military terms has not been as safe for as long as it is today. We're surrounded by friendly countries themselves. All these countries are members of the European Union. We have no serious disagreements with any other country. What we have is a deep social and development crisis. Since our health and social systems are cutting our necks, we should direct our staff and money to these sectors. However, NATO’s commitments are a government excuse to do exactly the opposite. If Slovenia wants to meet NATO's objectives by 2025, it will have to spend €1.5 billion in arms alone. That's as much money as she's spent on this from 1991 to today. So why not use this billion-and-a-half-euro for the welfare of citizens and the development of the country and freeze military spending? We socialists are often reached by parliamentary revelations that we are populists. But let's ask ourselves, let's take two steps back, take a look at the whole picture, and see who's the populism here. In Levica we come from the fact that Slovenia is not militarily threatened by all objective criteria. However, by all but objective criteria, it is highly indebted and under-averagely developed country. It is very clear here that government policy stems from purely ideological ideas to threaten us, I don't know who – Russia or those poor countries in North Africa and Asia from which refugees flee? Thus, we are to be threatened by those countries that have literally returned Western interventions to the Stone Age. There's still a lot of these ideological flosses, and I could count them all day. But among them, the most absurd thing is that Slovenia has to raise funds for the military because of it, I quote: “Righteous burden sharing in NATO.” Ladies and gentlemen, are you being a fool? Slovenia is a net payer in Nat. In addition, this organization does not deal with the defence of Slovenia, which deals with patrolling after the American Empire, is carrying out a pax of Americana. And that's why we're supposed to spend extra money here? Slovenia is one of the recorders of the number of soldiers per capita sent to various occupation units. What's more beautiful for American imperialists than to outsource auxiliary tasks to various satellites, even if these satellites, including Slovenia, themselves pay their living forces and buy Western weapons for their carnivores. It is no wonder that Slovenia, after entering NATO for military spending more than before, even though politicians at the referendum promised to pay less. In 1999, we spent 2.4% of public funds on defence, and eight years later we spent 3.3%. We advocate for a rational defence policy that will deal with the defence of the country, not by guaranteeing the privileges of Western superpowers and their corporations in the world. I know that there are also members of the coalition who know how to use your head and don't sit on stories as told by the government. I know you're meeting and you're not taking Nate for dry gold and you know damn well that the Slovenian Army's involvement in Nate's operations is not in our interest. These well-meaning Members sometimes say that if you are right, but you know, but Slovenia is too small to lead a different policy, we need to adapt and submit here. My dears, that is not true! Slovenia is not too small to be neutral. And it's not true that we can't afford neutrality. Neutral Austria and Ireland spent much less on the military than Slovenia. Neutrality, if I speak in your language, in the language of money, is worth it. Slovenia will never be able to protect itself from total war. However, it can be rationally secured against any size trying to impose its political leadership on us, i.e. democratic, read, capitalist values. The government law is going in a completely different direction, in the direction of further collaboration with the giants, who are doing exactly what we don't want anyone else to do to us. That is why we will vote against the Defence Act in Levica.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u85	Mr Bojan Dobovšek will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u86	All those who accompany this meeting are respected! We have two related laws before us and a law on defence of service in the Slovenian Army. There is no doubt that this must be discussed in its entirety. Security, as we know, is still an important asset for the development of every society, and without security there is no progress of society. Especially societies like us. We see that the military threats are changing, the non-military forces are becoming more and more and more parts of the military's mission are changing. They are becoming more and more like police powers and the exercise of these powers in peacetime. The proposal before us is important for further discussion and in which direction we will go. Where are those good reasons and good suggestions? Harmonisation with the European Union, harmonisation of acts is already one such case. The types of officers that are proposed, and in particular the definition of non-military defence, are also seen to be an increasingly important part of the tasks carried out by the Slovenian Army. Where do I expect the marriage to be more advanced and more ambitious? The open questions to be asked are reflected in the direction of change and the assessment of threats. I expect us to be more reliant on, for example, the Baltic countries and their comparative analysis than we are on Croatia. So this is where guidance is needed and it needs to be directed more towards advanced countries. The abolition of military territorial commands is not a good proposal. Why? The military needs contact with the local population. And here are the answers – a better reputation in public. Position of Security Intelligence Service. We're gonna need a few more kits here, too. Whether it is a support service, how it is shared and, above all, the possibility of controlling and preventing abuse and information leakage. I need more emphasis on cyber security, what the tasks of the military are here, if cyber security is increasingly important. And the most important segment of how to approach young people, how to increase the interest of young people in this profession, where we will take the next steps. Of course, one of the steps is military education, whether it is a closed system or a model of some countries where the system is more open. There are still no clear answers here, I advocate that the system is more open and that we attract more young people. And then the motivation to move forward. Motivation, as proposed, is just motivation at entry and for those who enter. What about motivation for those already inside the system? How are we gonna reward them? Does the career system work? One of the biggest motivational factors is an open-ended transparent career system, saying not only the motivation of those who are coming, but especially those who are already in service. Finally, the emphasis on the issue raised by the European Union countries, especially the Baltic States, is hybrid warfare. Hybrid warfare is the war of the future, which requires answers in other areas, including social, even cultural, if we have previously talked about culture and security. Threats will need to be analysed more closely and these questions answered by the end of the law-making process. At this stage in the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we will support both proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u87	Mr Marjan Dolinšek will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Minister, Secretary, colleagues, colleagues! Today the Council is not the same as yesterday, even less the one in which the Republic of Slovenia established itself as an independent and equal member of the international community. Our internal and external security environment is changing rapidly and becoming increasingly unpredictable, with ever-new sources of international peace and security threatening, requiring a response in the form of well-built and democratically controlled national security systems. However, no country can protect itself from global challenges with a security dimension. Therefore, in the community with others, we must actively look for the answers to them, first of all our constitutional arrangements, which dictate that in ensuring security we derive mainly from peace policy and culture of peace and non-violence. In 25 years the Republic of Slovenia has taken an important path, from the territorial defence that protected the process of Slovenian independence to the establishment of a national defence system with the Slovenian Army as its central work. Since the adoption of the current Defence Act, the Republic of Slovenia has also become a member of international organisations and alliances in which it exercises its right to individual and collective defence and accepts its share of responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security. Thus the changed circumstances and the challenges that our country faces in maintaining and strengthening security today have for some time shown that umbrella legislation in the field of defence needs a thorough overhaul both at the level of terminology and at the level of substantive solutions. In the SMC Group we support and appreciate all efforts to ensure effective operation and further development of the Slovenian defence system. At the same time, we do not want a change in ourselves. The adoption of the new roof legislation requires particular care and discretion, since, as provided for in Article 194 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the law on defence is a law establishing the type, extent and organisation of the defence integrity and integrity of the State territory. The required two-thirds majority of the members of the National Assembly present required for its adoption also show that it is a law of defence for legal matter to be adopted with a long-term vision and is too important to be incorporated into it by ad hoc solutions. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre since the public presentation of the bill in this light, we miss a discussion on conceptual solutions and a response to criticism from the professional public that the bill is primarily about cosmetic corrections, without a clearly outlined long-term direction in the development of the Slovenian defence system. I would also like to see, on the example of some other countries, a single defence law that defines the foundations of our defence system and at the same time clears the contents, such as the labour law already regulated by other laws and regulations. From a symbolic point of view, it is extremely important that the Defence Act enjoys the widest possible support, not only of the various political options, but also of other government departments and, above all, trade unions, because they are employees in the defence field who will be users and enforcers of this law. In the SMC Group, we have followed the law-making process and we are aware of the concerns of other sources and the restraint of trade unions. This is not the best journey to a new marriage, but we feel that there is still nothing missing. Today's first reading of the bill's proposal at the meeting of the National Assembly is an excellent opportunity for a more detailed presentation of individual substantive solutions and clarifications on which the comments of the professions, departments and trade unions were taken into account and which could not be included and why. We are confident that, through this debate, we will be closer to solutions to how to improve the government's proposal for a law further in the legislative process. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we will support the conclusion that the draft Law on Defence is suitable for further consideration. We therefore commit ourselves to working constructively in the future to co-shape the normative basis for a functioning and stable defence system capable of responding to the fast-tracking situation in the international community and the security challenges they pose to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u89	Mr Jan Mahnic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u90	Thank you for the floor, Vice-President, Madam Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian army is in crisis today. For four years now, it has been unable to carry out the core task for which it has been called, in addition to other tasks, this is the conduct of an armed struggle in the event of an attack on the Republic of Slovenia. That is not the case, it did not grow on my pupil, but these are the words of the Commander-in-Chief of the Defence Forces, who are also not his own, but they were created on the basis of the self-assessment of the Slovenian Army, which is prepared by the General Staff each year. This assessment is already the fourth year in a row to assess the readiness to act during the war crisis, that is to say, for action, which is the primary purpose of the Slovenian Army, insufficient and the Slovenian Army is thus unable to carry out military defence. In order to avoid this, we have repeatedly warned and made concrete recommendations in the Slovenian Democratic Party in the current mandate. No recommendation, no well-intentioned advice, no proposal we have put forward in this mandate, not under the ministry of Janko Vebra, nor under the ministry of Mrs Andreja Katič, has been heard, has been accepted. They have always been discussed as non-digatious proposals. And I wonder how, after all this time, it is possible for the Minister to then come to Parliament and say that if the law required by the two-thirds majority of the Members present is not adopted, the law on defence, also makes no sense, or the law on service in the Slovenian Army withdraws. I ask you, Madam Minister: Where have you been for the three years since you were on this defence department when we proposed recommendations to make proposals for improvement? Why didn't you say at the time that these proposals needed to be supported, because otherwise other proposals did not make sense and could not be accepted? The Slovenian Democratic Party has never acted lightly against the defence system. Three times we have run this facility, and this area, I can only recall, has experienced its peak in the period 2004-2008, when we've been earmarking substantial financial resources and when the defence system has had as much money as it has ever had. Then came the financial crisis, the priorities were different. The government was then led by people from a party of Social Democrats, including the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Defence. And even today, the Slovenian Army did not recover because of the measures taken at the time. He's staggering, he's going backwards, there's no positive movement. That's not what I'm talking about. That's what we have the numbers for. The rash of soldiers under Minister of Defense Andrejo Katič is under 7,000 members, you can write another hundred SOPRs where you will write that the plan is 7,000 250 members, but I'm afraid next year we'll start the number 6 thousand 700. Several hundred members of the Slovenian Armed Forces left during the term of Minister Janko Vebra and Minister Andreja Katič, briefly led by a party of Social Democrats. We are in the Slovenian Democratic Party because of this fact, which is supported by numbers, whenever we can look at them, the official opinion is that those who have destroyed this system should be left on schedule or unplanned to make positive solutions difficult. We find it hard to believe that they are really trying to implement these solutions. Last summer, we sat with the Minister of Defence in our parliamentary group, where she listened to our proposals and comments. Now I realize there wasn't much to it. However, I recall that it was said that this law would last fall in the parliamentary procedure. It's been over a year since we got these two marriages on the table, and we still see what the situation is today. We have heard the opinion of the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, which I strongly agree with. The law is a deal. All that was promised to members and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, all that we also proposed on the Defence Committee, just when we had to vote on this decision, we had to take our colleague Shkobernet to the Reflections here in the lobby, so that the decision was taken, and I think that last year was somewhere in the autumn, where we had a good intention to raise salaries for those two wage classes, but we were also left behind. I am not saying that, especially in the law that we will consider at the next point, there are no changes that go in the right direction or that indicate a better situation if we talk about the wallets of members and members of the Slovenian Army, but it is not that or far as we would like. That the situation on the defence system is such is mainly due to the functioning or rather the failure of key organs. In order for the defence system to work, three persons must participate well: the President of the Government, the Minister of Defence and the Chief of General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces. If there is no cooperation between these three persons, if the Chief of Staff does not have the full support of the Minister and the Minister of the Government, then we have the situation today. We know what the relationship is, and we can also see this at closed meetings of the Defence Committee, between the Chief of Staff and the Minister of Defence and the relationship between the President of the Government and the Minister of Defence or the Modern Centre Party, which is also headed by the Ministry of the Interior, and on the other hand the party of the Social Democrats, which runs the Ministry of Defence. Such an attitude among these three persons is a recipe that the situation in the defence system cannot be improved. If you do not have a government that has been clear the goal of improving the situation in the defence system without sharing some change, while we have economic growth, and when it has been alerting itself for a long time, and since 2014, the commitments we have made and must be fulfilled by 2020, if we have a minister or defence minister who does not even know where to take this department, cinemas know the functioning of the defence system, and if we still have on the third side of the General Staff where, as previously stated by colleague Tonin, there are different aspects of how the Slovenian Army leads – I agree, in the grave section it gave, in the Slovenian Army we can say, somehow three currents, those who were already in JLA, then territorial defences and those who are solid supporters and supporters of NATO, while those former Yugoslav officers can also be considered as opponents of NATO’s solution. We must make the Slovenian army again. The Minister of Defence, together with the Chief of General Staff, should do only two things to ensure that the Slovenian Army is Slovenian and that it will be an army. Today is neither Slovenian nor military. Not because of the members and members who receive a few ten euros more each month on the payroll, but because of the mismanaged policy of this department and in relation to the guidelines of the Slovenian Armed Forces. In doing so, it must be said that the defence system is also closely linked to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Not only does Slovenia or the Slovenian Army lose credibility with regard to NATO, because we are not fulfilling those promises we made collectively, but especially because Slovenia is increasingly moving away from the policy of views and the values of NATO. We can send our members to missions abroad, here we are one of the best in NATO, this is acknowledged and appreciated in NATO, but if the Minister for Foreign Affairs at a time when we know what the NATO-Russia relationship policy is, he goes thirteen times to Moscow, and not once goes to Washington, because he is also invited, it is understood, then also credibility, the reputation of Slovenia and the Slovenian army also in relation to the then fall. The close link between these two pillars is also one of the reasons why we are critical in the Slovenian Democratic Party, both to the Ministry of Defence and to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Instead of getting proposals for improvement by the Ministry over the past three years, we have seen how it deals with various celebrations, with various camps and, above all, how it is staffed. He employs incompetent staff in high positions in the Slovenian Army, even abroad, in relation to NATO. I won't lose words, we've already talked a lot about how you wanted to raise a man in the rank of general, who fought there in the Plitvice area during his independence with Ratko Mladic, passed through the legal deadline set by the court that he was still a possible crossover, which is July 18th. We're talking about Brigadier David Hummar. At least the president of the state had the courage to stop this appointment. He is constantly on the wallpaper of the Chief of General Staff, constantly on the wallpaper are those who critically point out the situation in the Slovenian Army and I have a feeling that the professions do not listen. My colleague Dolinšek earlier said that there had been a lot of perceptions, cosmetic adjustments, and that the profession is still critical of what this law of defense brings or better says what it does not bring. I believe it is important to take advantage of the moment when two-thirds of the votes are needed for such an important law, a waste of time, both in the debate and in the vote, if this law does not really lead to fundamental changes. And we find that this marriage does not bring them. Minister of Defence Andreja Katič led the Slovenian Army or the Ministry of Defence during the crisis. But, ladies and gentlemen, it is precisely the time of crisis that we can use to make thorough reforms and radical changes. I can say this, I can say next year after the elections, that the last term and the last four years for the Slovenian Army have been lost. If we could make reforms that would lead to the fact that this money that is now being spent by the military is indeed rationally and usefully spent, we will say that it was four years of dead running. If we look at the specific objectives of this law. Consistency of legal solutions with the resolution of national security strategies, with the resolution on a general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the military by 2025. Ladies and gentlemen, if we align this law with this resolution, then we have a serious problem. This resolution has long been out of date since, at the time this resolution was adopted, a number of things have happened in the international environment, NATO's policy has changed and, above all, the geopolitical geostrategic situation in the world has changed. Furthermore, the aim is to include solutions in the law on crisis management in the defence field and on the use of civilian capacities. That's what we had to do. Smaller adjustments would be needed here. I believe that there will be proposals if the law is adopted in the second part, but this is not a major change that would bring about a better functioning of this system. We can say that it is only the legalisation of the situation as it is and the expansion of some of the frameworks in which we can legally use civilian capacities. Furthermore, provisions relating to the production of defence products shall be aligned with the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council. That is to say, in this House, that we are adapting to some European directives, we are doing this all the time. Enable greater expertise of the intelligence and security authorities and adequate supervision of their operation. The only thing we can say is a really big and really important change in this law is that the powers of the intelligence and security service are being extended, but we know how it worked in this mandate. Last but not least because of this Security Intelligence Service of the Ministry of Defence, the former Minister Weber flew away, not because of the fault of the intelligence and security service, but because of his own guilt. It is true, however, that if I had a professional director who knew and should know that by ordering the intelligence service to prepare an analysis of the positive and negative aspects of the sales of Telekom Slovenije, such a director should say: “I will not do this because it is illegal.” More powers are now given to directors. We can say that in a similar way as is regulated in the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency. Next, allow for changes in the organisation and operation of the defence system and enable the development of the Slovenian Armed Forces to continue within the collective self-defence system. Ladies and gentlemen, now tell me how a law that has no positive financial implications for the development of the Slovenian Army can affect the improvement of the state of the defence system. It may be true that because of a few ten euros, there will be more soldiers left in the system, but I believe that these two laws will still prevent us from reducing the downward trend and, above all, we will not get in the way of the development of the Slovenian Army. The law also defines the crisis, defines the war and state of emergency. But we've completely forgotten, before there was a speech that one of the elements of hybrid warfare is definitely a cyber attack. We saw what happened in Estonia. Finally, some Slovenian companies were targeted by a cyber attack a few months ago and a cyber attack on the University Clinical Centre in Ljubljana was successfully defended. If, under the crisis or after an emergency, there is no definition of a cyber attack, then I have serious concerns and the question of how this law can allow the continuation of the development of the Slovenian Armed Forces, when development, when we are talking about the units of the Slovenian Armed Forces, certainly also refers to the anti-cyberntic defence. And yet the eternal question of whether the cyber attack is also counted under Article 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty is whether or not the cyber attack against any country, member of NATO, is an attack on everyone. These are some of the main objectives. Above all, it is a big problem that I fear that the Slovenian armies are laying down certain things with this law, as we already know today on the basis of the situation in the Slovenian Army, that the Slovenian Army will not be able to carry them out. I fear that the adoption of this law on defence will legitimize the constitutional situation or that the Slovenian Army will be in breach of the law as soon as it is adopted. Look at some definitions, look at some tasks, composition and so on. We expected more from these two laws in the Slovenian Democratic Party. With three years to prepare, we thought that there would really be a law coming to the table that we could drink with some amendment, but certainly we did not expect a law that was also due to what we hear mainly as an obvious profession, that it was produced in a closed circle of three, four people, a minister, a secretary of state, perhaps two other lawyers, which was a senior officer from the Slovenian Army. There was no broader discussion, there was some consultation with some organisations. But I wonder what it was like to see these organizations critical today. However, in spite of everything in the Slovenian Democratic Party, as I have said before, we are responsible for this system and, despite the need to make better use of the moment when two-thirds of the votes to adopt such an important law should be raised, and we should make better use of this moment, in order to adopt really radical changes that will not only legitimize the existing situation, but will, above all, seriously extend the possibility of what you wrote as a goal, this is the development of defence capabilities and the development of the Slovenian Army, it is not, however, but nevertheless, in the Slovenian Democratic Party in the first reading, we will not oppose the law. Our continued support in the second reading depends on whether the amendments we propose will be adopted. The amendments will be the same as previously foretold by the Magi. Matthew Tonin from New Slovenia. Last but not least, we have a similar view of the situation that is taking place, but given what we are seeing and what we are hearing and what the opinions of the Ministry of Defence are, Madam Minister, 19 Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, 6 Members of the New Slovenia and 6 Members of the United Left, if we all come, I hope you know that this is more than a third, which means that the law is falling. From the willingness to accept the amendments – and the amendments will bring important changes – it is up to the Slovenian Democratic Party to support the law in the second round and we will not oppose the law in the first round. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr Franc Jurša will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u92	Vice President, thank you for your word. A nice greeting is given to the Secretary of State and the Secretary of State. You, too, dear fellows and colleagues! Maybe an introduction. Given that I have listened carefully to the views of the members of the groups, I will not argue with them. I must say that they are relatively very political, ideologically coloured, and some have even disputed within the views of the parliamentary group with another parliamentary group. I'm not doing this. However, I must say at the outset, given that some of you have taken advantage of this opportunity, I will say, as I have said in all these debates and other discussions on the labour market, that we belong to a democratic social party, and that if this option were the case, we would say that we will spend all this money on the defence, on pensions, on social transfers, on the poor, on public education, on public health. That would be ideally said on our part, so that we could win the electorate. However, given that we are making a realistic assessment of the situation, we also assess that security is one of the most important assets. And we guarantee this goodness in the way we have our time, those who have already gone to the referendums, have also decided that we will do it in NATO's alliance. It costs us something, but I'm still sure it's less than what it would take to guarantee it on its own. Those who say otherwise would like to be quite specific, not around. In 1994, this law was adopted, amended. Nothing's happened since. At the beginning of this term of office of the then minister, we have warned that this would now be an opportunity to go to the amendment of the existing law. It's true that this case has been going on for a relatively long time, but it has happened. And you know what else I'm going to tell you, dear fellows and colleagues, we haven't had a better proposal so far, because it wasn't. But this is not ideal, and I agree, because simply, if it were ideal, it would probably be even harder to accept it than we are now. In the beginning, let me also say that we will also confirm this law in our first reading group. The law updates the definition of the defence system, taking into account the existing strategic documents and the level of development achieved. The defence system is thus composed of the Slovenian Armed Forces, which supports its functioning as an allied force and plans to operate in crisis, emergency situations and in war. The international environment is becoming increasingly unstable, and we are also facing major natural disasters in the country in recent times. We are also aware that this area is covered by a special law on protection against natural and other disasters, by the fact that part of the defence system in these natural disasters also cooperates and is commendable that this has been increasingly used in practice over the past period. These changes require a responsive, flexible and highly trained army that acts more rationally. The area of civil defence is being updated and coordinated with the solutions used by other comparable countries in crisis management to respond to different crises. In accordance with the European acquis, control over the production, transport and transfer of military weapons, equipment and other defence products is regulated. For the production and marketing of military weapons and equipment and essential components, the current system of consent and permits will be maintained. The transfer of defence products within the European Union will be simplified. In order to assess the prohibition arising from the rights to strike, military personnel have an allowance of EUR 60 gross per month, as this prohibition has not been duly complied with when transferring to the new pay system. In the Desus Group we support amendments to the Military Duty Act, transitional provisions. The National Assembly will be able to decide on the basis of the Government to reintroduce individual or all elements of military duty. The proposed addition makes it possible to reintroduce it in peace, in addition to the possibilities so far, with the reintroduction of military duty referring to difficult or changed situations. In this context, the concept of the current resolution on the general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces until 2025 is used, which speaks of an extraordinary deterioration of the security environment. Your Honor! The world is just what it is. We can also view the country's defence system as a helmet insurance car that's nice to have when you really need it, when you don't need it, but I don't want to pay insurance. Historically, we can say that Slovenians and Slovenians live in relative peace. The events surrounding us constantly remind us that it is essential to be well prepared. Also in the area of security against cyber attacks, which are increasingly common. In the Desus Group, we believe that it is necessary to have an open option regarding compulsory military service, but only if we assess that this is necessary. For all these reasons, we agree that the proposal for a law goes into further consideration, as I have said at the outset. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Germany will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, Mr Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! At least for the past seven years, we have witnessed what this law will also contribute to bringing an end to the realization of how important national security is not only in terms of defence protection but, above all, in terms of the presence, the regulation of defence forces, which often helps us to feel like citizens and citizens in these uncertain times. Today we are starting an important debate on the fundamental system law in the field of state defence, this is the proposal for a law on defence. After more than 20 years, it fully updates the defence system of the Republic of Slovenia and fully follows the provisions of the Constitution as it regulates the type, extent and organisation of the defence of the Republic of Slovenia. The promises of reforming the Defence Act have a long beard and range back a few mandates. If we look into history a little bit, the only major change and addition to the Defence Act was adopted in 2002 and, as we know, the preparation of the Republic of Slovenia to join NATO. The legal changes were necessary at the time, as the entire national legal order had to adapt to the legal order of the European Union. In the area of defence, the legal solutions had to go in the direction of adapting the Slovenian defence system to NATO standards. Despite the constant preparation of the procedures for the recasting of legislation, the professional and political consensus, in order to complete the reform of Slovenian defence legislation, there was no finalisation. We wish, as mentioned, not only that at first reading, but that this law will also be supported in further consideration. The development of the defence system of the Republic of Slovenia has also shown a strategic review of the defence. Members, we now have the opportunity and the opportunity to adopt and support, on the basis of a serious and serious political debate on the draft Law on Defence in further procedures. It follows from the material that the basic purpose of the proposal for a law on defence, for the first time, is to ensure the continued operation and development of the defence system. And secondly, with changes in the organisation and way it operates, continue the development of the Slovenian Army into a collective defence system. In order to achieve this, the following objectives must be pursued: to align the basic legal solutions with the highest strategic development and political documents in the field of national security and defence; to update the solution in the law governing the basic issues of organisation and completion of the Slovenian Armed Forces and military service; to update the areas of civil or non-military defence and to align it with the solutions used by other comparable countries in crisis management and response to various crises; and to regulate civil-military cooperation at legal level. It is in the latter area of civil-military cooperation that, in the event of major natural disasters, we ask too many questions about when and how members of the Slovenian Armed Forces can come to the aid of affected fellow citizens. The area related to the production and transport of military weapons, equipment and other defence products also needs to be aligned with the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the simplification of the conditions for the transfer of defence products within the Community. The amendments also concern the necessary regulation of the professional, intelligence and counter-intelligence and security tasks of the Slovenian Defence. In order to achieve those objectives resulting from the strategic documents adopted and to ensure consistency in the implementation of our own commitments, decisions and guidelines that we have also adopted in this Chamber, adequate financial resources must be provided. The defence budget must be increased with predictable dynamics. The predictability of financial resources also allows a comprehensive approach to ensuring systemic conditions for the operation of the professional army, namely soldiers and soldiers, and consequently for their family members. We believe that in the coming hours, if I also consider the expected time for discussion for the Proposal for a Service Law in the Slovenian Army, which is an integral part of the changes in the defence field, a constructive debate will develop. Let me recall once again, as Madam Minister has said, that we are changing the law that was passed in 1994 under different circumstances and on different assumptions. The Social Democrats will conclude that the draft Defence Act is suitable for further consideration and will be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u95	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. The word has been given by the proposer, the government. Minister Andreja Katič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u96	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your opinions. Perhaps in the introduction, but I will not go into more detailed presentation of the law right now, but I will touch the preparation of the law in particular. In the law itself, you have a more detailed description of how the public debate took place. I reject the claims that the law was formed in a narrow circle, but for the law we formed a special working group composed of representatives of both the Slovenian Army and representatives of the administrative department. We have also made a public presentation, called on all the professional public, all the patriotic organisations working in our area to deliver opinions. But it is true that I wanted the opinions to be as concrete as possible, to be transmitted in the form of amendments. I confess, and I also spoke to you, honourable Members, when I presented the content of the law to you, that I expected more constructive comments to be made in the debate itself, including by the professional public, including those operating outside the defence department. I believe that there is still time and that today's debate will also show where we can improve the law. However, I would certainly reject the claim that it is merely beauty repairs. It is true, however, that we are based on the fact that we are guided by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and where the defence system is also defined, and in the individual provisions it was necessary to take into account the opinion of all of you, the professional public, and in particular of other departments, when we formulated individual solutions. But I certainly think that today is an opportunity for me to listen to all of you who, unfortunately so far, have not taken the time and made comments to do so today, to include them, to the greatest extent possible, in both of these proposals of the law. But I would also say that and point out why it took so long. The Defence Act and the Service Act in the Slovenian Army are inseparably linked. At that time, the starting point was given at a meeting with you, honourable Members and Members, to go to the drafting of new laws and not just to prepare changes and additions to existing ones, because from 1994 to today it has been really so long, the situation has changed so much, a series of strategic and other documents to be taken into account, collective defence, activities now taking place in the field of the European Union, which all needed to be incorporated into this law. If the Defence Act is not adopted, the Service Act in the Slovenian Army is directed towards the provisions of the Defence Bill, and I have therefore stressed that they are in fact inseparably linked. Certainly, what I said in the debate was the basic objective of modernising the Slovenian Armed Forces in view of the development achieved, our role within the framework of the Alliance, NATO and the European Union, and of course also to enable the further development of the Slovenian Armed Forces, the entire defence system, so that it can respond effectively to the current crisis of the threat and also improve the situation of members and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces. I believe that this is also stated in more detail in the explanation of both laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Dr. Milan Brglez has the floor to prepare Mr. Benedict Kopmajer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for the floor. My debate on this law will come from the Constitution, because it is always necessary to come from there, from the Constitution, from international law. What, at least for me at this point, is in fact a warning, which matters must in fact be taken into account in order for this law to be at least in line with this same constitution. We can read the Constitution in a narrow way, but we can read it in a broad way and first take into account where we are in the international community. In this respect, the starting point is certainly at least for me Article 3.a. There is one branch within this Article 3a, which is very important. So I will say, first of all, paragraph 3a of Article 3a refers to the fact that a two-thirds majority has to enter, that all of these things have happened, or that a referendum is to be convened. But it is about transferring the exercise of the work of sovereign rights to international organisations of a supernational nature. This is the European Union, all right. The transfer of the exercise of sovereign rights took place in the case of the European Union. These sovereign rights have nothing to do with the military, these sovereign rights have nothing to do with foreign policy on their own, and none of this has happened. And that's still our domain. We must be aware of this; this aspect of the Constitution must be understood. Then, when the conditions of this international organisation have to be respected – "they are based on respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, democracy and the principles of the rule of law", the branch comes, "and enters into a defence relationship with countries based on respect for these values". It means that nothing, no sovereign rights, nothing has been transferred to NATO as such. This is the first basic dimension to be understood. And because this dimension exists, in fact, these aspects must also be taken into account in some way, either in deciding on the most important matters of political or nature, in which case the whole of our Constitution and the relationship in particular between the National Assembly on the one hand and the Government on the other. Some decisions must be made urgently in the National Assembly. If this is a matter of law, we must do something similar to the article 37a, which, by the way, respect what has been corrected, nice, human rights are added to it, the aspect that we didn't have time to think about at the time. Even this fuse was not understood in itself at the time. We will not go back to the way these things actually happened. At that time, we even dealt with such nonsense as to whether or not the law could enter into force in one day. Which is in fact inconceivable, given that we are within this constitutional order. But the situation has been exceptional in many ways, and now it has improved what was not thought of at the time, and this is the very process concerning human rights with regard to the deployment of a potential army to the border. This is nicely solved now in 33rd, at the time was Article 37th. I have no comment on this. The security guard who was admitted there quickly points me out that it is necessary to understand that in deciding on these matters, either on missions or on the application of Article 5 of the Treaty of NATO or on any other use of the military on an international scale would normally assume that the decision of the National Assembly is the same. Normally, it is prepared by the Government, no problem, but the two-thirds majority of those present will be required because it is also a fundamental law of work on this basis. Even Article 37a would not need this fuse if this fuse were not contained in the basic law. Otherwise, because of the security guard, the matter could have been disputed. One more thing to mention quickly. The Defence Act, as it is written and contains such things, contains material which must be protected by a two-thirds majority of Members and contains matter when there is no need for it. On what basis can we see this? On the basis of the decisions of the Constitutional Court, which has recognised certain acts of austerity because of certain other systemic matters, even in the subject matter covered by this law itself, as constitutional. Because if they were to be covered directly with what protects, in particular, Article 124 of the Constitution, that is, the one who originally says how this law should be adopted, then the Constitutional Court would conclude that it is not possible here to modify the defence law, at least with regard to those substances which relate either to work or to certain status and other matters. What I wanted to say at the starting point is that we have collective defence, which we are part of, is a key article 3a, the important thing is that the sovereign right has not been transferred to anyone. No one can make decisions for us. It must decide whether to participate in a mission or to activate Article 5. This is not clear on the basis of current practice, given the strategic documents. The strategic documents have never experienced, nor can they experience, the judgment of the Constitution itself, but the law. That's why this test is much worse. There was a need or sufficient, in fact, for the number of Members to be duly confirmed by a strategic document in the case. In this case, the test is actually even bigger. The matter must also be consistent with the Constitution and with other international commitments that Slovenia has. There is another international commitment that is more important than NATO, which is based on Article 8 of our Constitution, which speaks of the relationship between international law and national law, and says that, in fact, international treaties bind us once they are ratified. A key such international treaty is the Charter. Within the Constitutional Charter, States have further agreed to the decisions of the Security Council, i.e. when granting a specific mandate, whether it is a threat to international peace, security or anything like that, but the mandate is more important than what is concluded in NATO, or at least after our constitution, the defence should be in accordance with the decisions taken by the Security Council. We know there are political problems in these matters. But however we look at this matter, the commitment we have under the Charter is above other international treaties. This, however, applies on the basis of Article 103 of the Charter itself, which in fact applies to us. This is some general framework that we need to take into account within this framework. The 124th Article, which relates directly to the law itself, must also be taken into account, and then also to the policy that this country is supposed to implement and that is right, I will say, not only in the security field, but also in the foreign policy area. All I'm saying is now not a problem of the current suit either at the Ministry or at the Government, but of the general relationship between the Government on the one hand and the National Assembly on the other. At least in the event of a change in such an important law, some of these decisions, in particular paragraphs 101 and 103, need to be adjusted in some way. This is my general observation, you can count me among those who have not yet responded, but in fact this is the right opportunity to comment on these matters, and this is the fundamental constitutionality that will actually have to be part of the law if a person is to read the matter that I must read as President of the National Assembly that it is all in accordance with the Constitution itself. Another part that is important relates to the state of emergency and war. We also have a constitutional article, 92. Article. We know we've had it before, but there is, at least for me, a certain pain on these issues. But this moment is not the most important. It's important what it says. It says, okay, announce it to the National Assembly, but given all that has been going on in this mandate, it is absolutely unclear how it is decided in the National Assembly itself. But if the defence law is decided by a two-thirds majority in attendance, such important decisions as this should be made in this way. Even more. ‘This upper guard may then be the constitutional majority if all are present. The problem is the lower limit, at 46 it can be decided by 24. That's a big problem. Even this lower limit should in some way be visible if we want to talk about the guards. For me, this decision should be supported by at least 46 votes in the event of a two-thirds majority. These are two guards worth talking about. We are at a stage of discussion, and at this stage of discussion, I think these are legitimate matters. But they are in particular related to those missions that would potentially not have the mandate of the Security Council. Yes, it's controversial if we can propose, but also with those who would have a mandate, because there is no automation in the Security Council case. When you look at the Charter, countries do not automatically cooperate, they must make this decision. But this decision is made by one who is a sovereign representative, and this is the National Assembly. Of course, on a proposal from the Government and with all assumptions earlier. I'm saying that the strategic documents contradict this, and then the constitutional judgment for them was not a relevant case. The situation is exactly the same in the foreign policy area. It doesn't make any difference. The modus operandi is exactly the same. Wrong, according to our constitution. Within this 92nd article, one sentence is significant, the second paragraph has only one sentence saying: “The National Assembly decides on the use of defence forces.” Yes, in the event of a state of emergency and a declaration of war, that is to say, in these two cases, it is absolutely decided. If he has to decide on these most difficult situations, he will also decide on less important matters. This is some argument of analogy, but it must be useful. If, when the worst is the hardest — yes, the president jumps in, otherwise, until the national assembly can meet. But if he can act in a state of emergency or in a war parliament, he will be called, and in this case he must decide on these matters. I think that those decisions and that, with regard to key international missions, the military's involvement in them, as well as the application of Article 5, the National Assembly is the place where these matters should be decided. I will also say this because it sometimes seems that political commitments, such as those made in NATO, are more important than anything else, than other international treaties, than our constitution or anything else. That's not gonna work! It's often set up so high because we're working on some kind of inertia. The pressure on the government is enormous both within NATO and within the European Union, and we must recognise this in some decisions. The only one who can allow them to manoeuvre to act in accordance with our constitution is the National Assembly. No one else. The only one who can decide differently, as others say, if so decides, has this competence, but this decision has to be verified in some way in a qualified manner in the National Assembly itself. My intervention is mainly going this way. Given that we are in the middle of a general debate, I would like to mention that I certainly think that the commitments we have under the Charter are stronger, because the Charter itself shows that we must respect this mandate first. And if the mandate were not given, it would be even more necessary to come to the National Assembly, even though you could imagine that the constitutionality of such a decision would then be raised. For example, if we were to have another intervention in Kosovo without the Security Council's powers now, we would have major problems in our constitutional order, or we could participate in such an intervention. In our opinion, we would have problems because of our constitution, not because of anything else, because there are certain things written in the constitution and you cannot forget them. Commitments under the Constitution are, at least as far as we are concerned about parliamentarians, above all else, above international treaties, and then our laws, including the Defence Act, will come. This consistency must exist. There must be compliance with international law and at the summit with the Constitution. I would therefore, in fact, plead that these matters are properly regulated on this basis. In particular, because this law must in fact mention such a state of emergency, a state of war, all these matters must be determined in some way. In fact, it was adopted in 1994, and since then many things have happened to us, and these things must be properly arranged. I think that's enough time. Whether it is the political will to go so far as to settle these matters in this way is another issue. I'm not going down at this moment. However, I owe as a Member who thinks so, as well as the President of the National Assembly, who can respond to this, in particular in the second and third readings, and who will react, if that is not the case, I will not say that I am now setting conditions, but I think that the effort must be made to bring the matter into line with the Constitution itself. I'm otherwise pleased with some things. One of the things I'm very pleased with is that civil defense is now perceived as a non-military part of the defence system. A very important matter, an extremely important matter. I think that this solution is also for a longer period in which to go the 2% that we have to give to Nate. In this direction it is necessary to think, not just strictly military. Here. Because in these ways we can deal with these modern threats [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] I didn't say anything, it's new, okay, please don't jump, but what I find interesting about the whole system is that this thing is even more precise, what it means within the defense system. [[…]] The concepts are slightly different, which have been carried in in a different way. It should be considered that defence or defence law is the centre around which the whole system must be designed, while at the same time this concept must be in line with international commitments. But like I said, even with our constitution. Otherwise, I think that regardless of the situation, that I will not speak again in the next law, this is the service law in the Slovenian Army because they are inseparably connected. What I have to say is, first of all, I must thank the soldiers for everything they have done and what they will do, even though their situation is not fully regulated. I can imagine, however, that we will need to contradict what is now envisaged, because not some way of lowering the required level of education is more educated, because, in particular, participation in international missions that have been good, so good that no one expects anyone to be even with various modern forms of warfare in Europe, some in the hall you know very well, no one will try to get these soldiers on the spot into an unapproachable position, this will not happen because they are too fettered. Yes, but their political situation in Slovenia will most likely be stalled if so. At least for some missions this applies. But that says more about us being good at it, and I'm glad we're good. In fact, we should go in the opposite direction, so to speak, that our army must also be even more qualified at the level of only soldiers with all possible knowledge, including humanitarian and war law. And at this point, I'd actually end up. However, I think that, nevertheless, these career paths must also be designed in a good way, but I do not agree with that one step, at least as far as soldiers are concerned about the necessary education or the lack of education. Moreover, we need a certain education because of the nature of cooperation in international missions and everything else, which Slovenia, as a responsible member of the international community, will actually have to do. Decisions on this and political decisions on all these matters must be taken in the National Assembly. This is also, in principle, a political position, not just that that comes from the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Benedict Kopmeyer has the floor. Get Mr. Jan Škoberne ready. Here you go, Mr. Kopmeyer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u100	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, everyone's welcome! For my introduction today, I will borrow a large address in one of the Slovenian weeks in May 2017, citing: “I am an officer in positions, and soldiers are kicked in the ass.” End of quote. This was just in the month when she celebrated her holiday Slovenian Army at a ceremony in Slovenj Gradc. Since I will not discuss the next bill, I will now take a few thoughts about both. At the invitation for the Slovenian Army ceremony, along with the photograph of the steep soldiers, the honorary troops were recorded in the eloquent words or slogan Next, together, for peace, which will also be the starting point in my debate. I chose this borrowed point because it is very good to express the steps that the Slovenian Army must take, that it will finally get its status and place in Slovenian society, not least because, according to the polls, the Slovenian nation still trusts it most that it will not always be the target of criticism of every political position or opposition and that the President of the State will not consistently give it an assessment insufficiently and, on the other hand, he will increase the highest officers. Why is that? The old 1994 law, with its current amendments, needs to be amended, adapted to the new strategic document, I am referring here to the Resolution of the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Slovenia as the highest national security document, and to be aligned with the Resolution on the general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Army by 2025. From today's draft laws on defence and service in the Slovenian Army, this is a step forward in achieving the objectives. I'm not going to go into the details, because there's going to be time for another reading. How, though, can the opening slogan be fulfilled — together? This is where we run into obstacles. From within MORS and General Staff and from outside the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Public Administration. And I'm only going to focus on three. I cannot understand that within the house you cannot agree on the classification of formational duties and titles in wage classes with all three unions that disagree with your proposals, because according to their pay grade you break the military hierarchy and equal pay for various difficult work. I have cases here that I can list for you. How can a sergeant command a corporal if they have the same starting salary? How can an Ensign stand in front of a senior staff sergeant with the same pay grade? They're not just here in these subhuman acts of anomaly, they're also in the pay grade for military personnel. The 8th and 9th classes of military personnel have a pay grade of 29th, without progress we speak. These are just two cases. Together. How together, when trying to raise salaries for soldiers, we have to admit here, they have really low, they jump into the air both by the Minister of the Interior and by the Minister of Public Administration. And thirdly, how together, when some advocate changes in the formations in the command structure, how many units and what they will have, is not quite clear how they will be equipped and how much less. It is only clear that our army, which totals only 2 000 847 troops, will have and have the general staff, the Force Command, the Joint Operations Centre, the General Staff Support Unit, 3 brigades, which means 7 regiments and 3 battalions, then the regiments of military aviation, the Naval Division, the Special Operations Unit and the Military School Centre. In March this year, the permanent composition fell below 6,000 900 members. Of this, there are a thousand 84 officers and a thousand 955 subordinates, a total of 2 thousand 39 commanders at all levels for all 2 thousand 847 soldiers, pure soldiers. These 861 soldiers, who are still in the contractual reserve, are no longer taken seriously. Who will be commanded by so many generals? 4 levels of generals, general appointments, acts under Article 65 of this Act, and other officers of all degrees. Even the Admiral's spells are provided for by the highest admiral of the Slovenian Navy, interesting. Now, from the slogan — for peace. The security situation in the world is deteriorating. Slovenia is also in this boiler. I have to work and act or plan our forces not only to ensure peace abroad within the framework of NATO, but also, in particular, to defend the country. To achieve this goal, however, it is necessary to be uniform, and I will add a slogan here or a single word. The adoption of today's bill proposals, I believe it will be in this direction. And last but not least, thank the minister and her team for making this move. I'll support both proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr. Jan Škoberne has the floor. Get Mr. Miha Kordish ready. Here you go, Mr. Scoberne.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, Colleagues and colleagues! In 25 years it has changed so much that there is no need for something significantly more intense to argue the fact that a new law on defence needs to be adopted. If I try to say very simply, in the existing law, the current law is still a condition for employment in the Slovenian Army, which has not been in service for some time. That the world has substantially changed in both the technological and geostrategic fields over this small insignificance, and also in the perception of security and danger, of course, requires that we also adapt to it at a normative level through the law of defence. This is not a normal law, so it is important that we also have today's general debate. I believe that there will be further improvements to the existing law in the second reading or in the second reading in particular, and I welcome the Minister's repeated announcement that she wants to hear the amendments, that she wants to hear concrete ideas and that in this light we will also make sure that we do not remain in the general debate truly and only at the level of the general debate, but that we will also make it possible to prepare the Committee properly and qualitatively today with these contributions. For I believe that the law will be passed. At a few points, what seems most important to me. It has been pointed out in some of the positions of the parliamentary groups that both the Defence Act and the Service Act in the Slovenian Army must place a human being at the heart of our defence system. He can understand this from this law. Last but not least, through the little progress made by the Minister with the team, for example, it does so in a way that, in the event of a call for a back-up, the situation of these people is equal to that of a permanent composition that has not been established so far. This is an absolute and, above all, a step in the direction of taking care of a soldier and a man. To talk through a modern perception of the issue of security and the danger of how to transfer knowledge, technology, awareness of also the civilian part of the population, which is not either in its composition or the Ministry of Defence, or within the system of protection and rescue. So we are talking about the issue of long-term and continuous education, training, cooperation and inclusion of the whole public. This is something that most countries see as the primary and fundamental pillar of their defence. The ability of people to respond, to cooperate and to realize that there is not only a formal system for their safety either before or before an accident of concern, but that they themselves understand that they are part of the same system, even though they are not formally involved. In this part, I also, in some ways, welcome the possibility of relaunching recruitment in peacetime, and in particular stress that this is something that requires an extremely precise and weighty debate. We have heard many times in public and in debate that recruitment should be introduced, and then, as a key reason, it has been stated that this is how children should be raised, the educational receptions, in short, the education system in this country, we already have something that the constitution assumes is in the parent’s domain — the upbringing of children. We don't need a recruitment system to raise children. However, circumstances may arise in the future, not necessarily military when, in order to ensure security or to maintain the safety, training and competence of our citizens and citizens to respond, this will be necessary. And through this prism it is necessary to watch and understand. Similarly, the President of the National Assembly had earlier said about the perception of the role of civil work in protection, in defence. Last but not least, if I briefly touch on the fact that there are content in both laws that are at general level subject to other laws. For example, in labour legislation. The Slovenian Army is a specific system within the country. The Defence Act is a lex specialis that in some ways interferes with the rights granted by labour law, such as the right to strike. Excluding this from the Defence Act or from the Service Act in the Slovenian Army can be done, but this is likely to mean something that substantially changes the position of the military and the position of soldiers within this system. In some of the comments that have been made, I would like to point out that they still need to be clarified. In this respect, I also understand the Minister's call to improve the law not through general comments as "we don't need" or "to clear up the need for labour legislation under this law" but to discuss at a concrete level what is involved in this lex specialis, but what can we really do within the field legislation elsewhere. However, it is a law that deals with the issue of defence and security in the broadest sense, and logically also a law in which, if not already in many segments, it will extend horizontally to other areas. If that were not the case, this might be more problematic. The law is written in such a way that it sees its timetable for enforcement and enforcement longer than the circumstances we are able to understand and see today, enables the development of the capacity of the Slovenian Army and its support systems, even if you want, in a way that we can understand our role within the alliance not as a living shield or as a living force, but as a greater added value than, for example, a mountain fighting training centre. Slovenia's contribution to its pacifist constitutional orientation may also be that we develop a technology to combat threats, not necessarily exclusively military ones, in a direction that will be different from the tactics currently used, such as the military or the military of the United States of America, and other military forces, which have a significantly more aggressive military policy and often use, here I agree with my colleague Kordiš. Slovenia's contribution can, metaphorically speaking, be in the development of these boutique tactical technological abilities, not only ours, but all the allied armies. On the inside, we must also look for opportunities for our economy, opportunities for us not only to be net payers in NATO, but that we are through the development potential that each military has and must have, one of the creators and builders of economic growth, support for development. This law also makes it possible to address in particular the issue of governance with information risks, technologies, almost under the slogans, in the domestic sense, the issue of cybersecurity and danger. This must also be sufficiently general within certain definitions precisely because we may not even know and recognize certain circumstances today. We may also be able to talk about what the founder of Tesla has discussed in his recent extremely important debates when he says that the United Nations and all the countries of this world should seriously address the issue of willful weapons based on artificial intelligence, that is, whether, as a country with a constitutional category of pacifist foreign policy and the defence attitude of our forces, we should develop the potential that artificial intelligence also has for martial intelligence, or whether this potential will be sought primarily in defence against the possibility of aggression with such weapons. Just like the Group of Social Democrats, we will support this law. We would like, as has already been said, not only at the general level, but also at the concrete level within this debate to take a thorough and good step in preparing for the meeting of the committee, because I believe that we will reach a broader political consensus also at the conceptual level, so I agree on where and how, not only the Slovenian Army, but a comprehensive system of defence in Slovenia must go. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordish has the floor to prepare Mr Joseph Horvat. Here you go, Mr. Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u104	Thank you for your word, chairman. If I initially paraphrase the previous speaker, the Slovenian comparative advantage is that after Americans come and bombard a country in the Stone Age, the Slovenian Army patrols and preserves public order and peace. And then everything's okay, and then everything's fine. Look, it's not a major political twist, it's a continuation and more of the same. Come in. Also, the previous conversationalist had some kind of rhetorical luping that he had used NATO and pacifism in the same strike structure. Social Democrats at the Ministry of Defence are now buying Patries. Which makes me feel the most comfortable, but that's what everyone's talking about, practically all political parties, but it's a rhetoric of changed security conditions. Some very intrusive threat that would surround us all around. Hey, tell me how Slovenia is militarily threatened, who threatens it, where it threatens it, and how investment in military iron will contribute to the defence against this threat. I have not yet received this answer, even though I have set him up in the National Assembly and on his working bodies many times. But the fellow Members don't mind, they're "grabing" their war line. If I continue to respond to some of the executions of my colleague Brglez. See, about a year ago, in Levica, we made a proposal to take the decision to send Slovenian soldiers to missions abroad from the Government to the National Assembly. Where was Comrade Brglez back then? Today, this chief peacekeepers here explained in front of the cameras that we should strengthen democracy with such levers. And apparently it has some standard to use the word “constitution” or its derivatives at least once a minute. Here, a colleague of Brglez could teach that our American friends and other nuclear allies inside the NATO link as a current lane violate international law and also violate what is in the Slovenian Constitution, that is to say holding peace, holding pacifism, holding non-violence. But it doesn't seem to bother a fellow Brglez, at least not in practice. Nor is it the fact that the Government accepts the NATO targets for Slovenia, then by means of these objectives, forcible the National Assembly, and the initiatives for such documents to rummage in the National Assembly and that the National Assembly has that authority, and it has a series of refusals. If I take on the law or even military law and its purpose. See, the new military legislation is exactly as expected from the Slovenian political class. Expedited investments in military iron, military industrial complexes and their profits. The Slovenian Army for Foreign Occupational Service, a sub-contracting force for Western imperialist power centres and ultimately the Victorian Roman Catholic Church at state expense. However, this concept of the Slovenian Army, which is expected to absorb €1.2 billion of public money in the coming years, does not provide this Slovenian military capacity to defend the homeland. All I can say is Yankee go home and take the Slovenian political class with you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u105	Replica, Mr. Jan Škoberne. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I will not rhetorically wonder whether a Member belongs in a political class or not. I suppose the answer is clear. However, I would point out once again if it was and because it was misunderstood. The added value of Slovenia is precisely and above all in that it can contribute to the Pacific policies, to the development of the underdeveloped, to the establishment of normal life in areas affected by the war that have been affected by such and other disasters, both within the education, training segment, which is what our soldiers are doing primarily on most missions. All those who, at least a trifle or even a relatively superficial follow the work of the Alliance as well as the Slovenian Armed Forces, know that missions not only contribute to the construction of schools but also to the establishment of new democratic foundations based on the fact that in societies where, for example, it is not customary for our soldiers to speak to women, even in their free time within these missions, they also give them equal and equal praise, contribute and work society in the same way that, according to some fundamental values, we also represent them within our constitutional order. And, no, investment in the defence system is not just an investment in or just an investment in iron, in cannons, it is also an investment in assets, in technical equipment for protection and rescue. When there was nothing else to do, at the time of our natural disaster, one of the worst helped — who? The Slovenian army. When no one or firefighters were able to get to the location, the Slovenian Army came to the site with the help of military technology. The future of warfare is certainly not bayonets and rifles. Here Slovenia can contribute and here it can become or is an example within the alliance. And how are North Atlantic Allied and Pacific together? Simple. But we have to fight for it and make an effort. And Slovenia has a voice within the Alliance. If the voice and its capacities, including the developmental, including within the mountain fighting centre, where it trains all the soldiers of the Allies, does their homework, as a colleague would most likely say, then we have made an important move to understand that we not also build within the alliance of offensive but defence forces, not just establishing, but also maintaining peace and respect for the values that are fundamental to us. Thank you very much, Vice President, and I apologize for the overstatement.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Miha Kordish, please, you have a procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u108	Thank you, Chairman. Let your fellow Member of the Social Democrats know that the occupying force is still an occupation force. No matter what cellophane you wrap it in. And all these nice words about how we can act pacifically within Nate, look, colleague Scoberne, your SD secretary is buying Patrie, [[advertising from the hall]] Your SD secretary is sending an army to the Russian border in Latvia. No amount of duplicating and bellowing will be able to take that away from you. The balance of neutrality is the only right one, the only one that makes sense. Defending imperialist politics and the Slovenian holding of the stand of imperialism by, yes, because in Afghanistan we place hospitals and schools, but it is abominable. I think like these memos on the Internet, “six thousand circles of democracy per minute”, 6,000 patrons of democracy per minute will be brought to Afghanistan. Otherwise, Skoberna's colleague said everything we need to know about the social-democratic defence, pardon, military aggressive politics.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u109	Mr Miha Kordish, I agree with your work when you say that neutrality is the one that needs to be highlighted, and that is why I am asking you to use this position when you use the Institute of Procedural Procedure to really focus on this, but not to take advantage of the content debate presented by my colleague Škoberna. I will continue with my objectivity as much as I can and will give my word to Mr Joseph Horvath. Let me also point out that Mr Primož Hainz and Mrs Ludmila Novak will be given the floor. Here you go, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister of Defence, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! When we are talking about a new proposal for a defence law, I would like to remind all of you, colleagues and colleagues, as well as the Slovenian public, that Members of the New Slovenia have requested at least two urgent meetings of the Defence Committee. With one we wanted to draw attention to the situation in the Slovenian Army, and with the other emergency session we requested an increase in the defence budget. In both cases, the coalition has been very supportive of us in our words, but not in our actions. We have therefore put ourselves on the side of the Minister together, virtually all of us who represent the right-centred bloc of the opposition. We were on the side of the minister. But we're moving on. We are also talking about the two-thirds majority of the Members present. I cannot go on without talking about the two-thirds majority that was reached at the referendum on 23 March 2003, when the Slovenian people decided that the Republic of Slovenia would become a member of NATO. About a million voters came to vote at the time, 66.08% voted in favour of Slovenia's entry into NATO. We Christian Democrats are democratic, and we must and respect the will of the people because we have the authority of the people. Even when our referendum decisions or results may not be good enough and they run into our political principles, into our political agenda, if you will. But the referendum will of people must be respected. We have now listened very well theoretically, yes, I could also say a lecture by a colleague of Dr. Brglez, who highlighted the relationship of the law on defence with the Constitution and also with international treaties. If I may, I would add another matter here – also within the European Union, which we decided again at that referendum on 23 March 2003, but with a 90 % majority. We are members of the European Union and therefore have the means to replace the current mosaic of bilateral and multilateral military cooperation with more effective, I stress, more effective forms of defence integration. The legal aspect of where this is written – Article 42 of the Treaty on European Union allows a group of equally thinking Member States to raise European defence to a new level. European Commission President Jean Claude Juncker said in a speech on the state of the Union last year: “I think it is time to use this option.” I'll continue here. So we are talking about defence within the European Union, not just within NATO. And I also expect that in the second reading, if necessary, we will finalize the law in such a way that it is actually possible in marriage. True, the law is 1994 and we have not yet been to NATO and we have not yet been to the EU. Thus, two components must be respected and two components must contain a new law on defence. Let me remind you that at the 60th anniversary of the Treaty of Rome on 25 March this year, the leaders of the European Union adopted the Rome Declaration, that is, Dr. Miro Cerar, in which they committed themselves to working for the EU 27, which contributes to the creation of a more competitive and related defence industry and strengthens their common security and defence in cooperation and complementarity with NATO. I am talking about the complementarity of a better European defence system, because we must protect our European values, and of course also the defence system within NATO. What I am saying is that I firmly believe and I have also verified that there are strong economic reasons for greater cooperation between EU countries in the area of defence spending. The lack of cooperation between Member States in the field of defence and security is estimated to cost between €25 billion and €100 billion annually. We, the Member States. Because of some inefficiency, we throw out the uncoordinated side, it's a really big interval, between 25 billion and 100 billion euros, or if you want, we spend ineffectively. 80% of public procurement and more than 90% of research and technology is carried out on a national basis. By combining public procurement, it would be possible to save up to 30% of the annual defence expenditure. The fantastic numbers I got from the European Commission. A fragmented defence approach also leads to unnecessary duplication and poorer use of defence forces. There are 178 different weapons systems in Europe, compared to 30 systems in the United States. There are 17 different types of main battle tanks in Europe and only one in the United States. For some helicopter programs in Europe, there are several types of helicopters that governments could buy. I don't have enough time to further analyze these anomalies. In fact, it's about uneconomically spent money on defense. The fact is that we Europeans are concerned about our security and we have to take care of our children's safety and safety. Of course this security costs. Here we can discuss for a long time the theory and interpretation of legal relations between law, constitution, international treaties. But look, it doesn't do us any good if we're not so sober and so responsible that we can provide enough money for our people's safety. The cyber threat is a new threat that threatens and we simply do not have all the answers to confront it. Last February, the government adopted a cybersecurity strategy. I will now, in the budgetary debates from tomorrow on the Committee on Finance and elsewhere, ask the representative of the Government how much money we have ensured that this cybersecurity strategy is being implemented. I am aware that an effective cyber security system is not cheap and cannot be cheap. However, it is incomparably cheaper than it would be to address the consequences that could have arisen in the event of security incidents if such a system did not exist. Therefore, when we talk about security when we talk about defence, the question is closely linked to how much we are responsible for providing funds for it. I always say that Slovenia, however, has to devote 2% of the gross social product to the defence budget, that it does not go overnight if we have had terrible backlogs in recent years. But if I look closely, and I'm talking to the representatives of NATO, then the current trend is not good, it's not good, even though I'm listening to the Prime Minister that the trend is positive, that we put more into the defence budget every year. I'm afraid not. When I make this request, I always add that money, every euro in the defence budget, must also be spent effectively. It is not enough to spend 2% of Slovenian GDP on anything, it must be very effectively spent money. Madam Minister, I am once again on your side today, and I will support this law in the first reading. However, I drew attention to this common European defence. This is probably a question for lawyers or not, because we have signed the Treaty on European Union and this is probably already somehow implied in the Treaty on European Union. And here, to conclude, I just want to remember how fast things are happening in Europe and how slowly things are happening with us. When Juncker announced last year in his speech on the state of the Union, the establishment of the European Defence Fund, the European Commission established this European Fund this June, 7 June. It's five and a half billion euros, and here's our chance. It is true, you will say, yes, because this is small, this is so in the EU 27, which has 444 million inhabitants, it is 12 euros per capita, that it is nothing. But it's a good start. Much of this is also about research and development and so on and so on, and here again are our options, because at home in our budget we provide a dramatic lack of money for research and development in general terms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u111	Mr Primož Hainz has the floor to prepare, if there is still time, for Mrs Ludmila Novak and Mag. Branko Grimes. Mr. Hainz, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President! I'd say next. President Brglez, of course, has in theory well-founded that, in fact, the National Assembly should play a greater role in the issue of foreign policy, in particular the issue of our military obligations, deployment abroad and so on. But the stronger the document, I understand that, and I think that should be respected. I have always advocated that the National Assembly is the one who decides in important milestones or important moments of history. However, I must say that this two-thirds majority and insistence can also cause us problems. In peace, it's very simple. But if it's a war situation, we have to be realistic. I remember those discussions in the Yugoslav army, when we discussed at headquarters how D plus one day, D plus two day, when the CK will meet on the third day, and the Human Assembly of Yugoslavia on the fourth day, when it is perfectly clear when the bombs fall, that there is no two-thirds majority. I think that some conclusions need to be realistic, but in principle in peace I fully agree that this two-thirds majority of the National Assembly is needed for decisions. Second of all, it's about Nate. Look, this is our reality. You remember that we had plebiscite, as my colleague Horvath spoke before me. For we had in history, look, old parents brought us, this is a clerical party then to the old Yugoslavia or the state of SHS. Our fathers, well, our mothers brought us to the state of Yugoslavia and we were just here. We can criticize back, what was good, what wasn't good. But it was some reality of that moment and we just had a referendum some time ago in which we brought together a referendum for the European Union and NATO and said we were going to NATO. We are here now, and we must take this reality into account. But I'm just saying that we're rational here, that we don't overdo it, that we can adjust the costs to our abilities. I think that no country gives 2% of GDP, which is the goal, and here we say our real dimensions, as we say, are the dimensions that we are also trying to enforce our position or role in the economic field, because it is an internal redeployment. As far as the Slovenian Army is concerned, I have heard a statement today that the Slovenian Army was in surplus, if I understand correctly, between 2004 and 2008. I don't remember getting any war back then. It's hard to judge the army in peace, let's be honest. And that's why I don't know how that statement was born. At the time, I was bitter in some way when the president of the state said our army was in disarray. I have to say it's impossible for a system like the military system to explode in 10 years. There are some roots, some facts, or developments that have led to or did not lead to a worse or better situation. Not one or the other term or grade doesn't convince me, but I have to be very clear about that. As far as further development is concerned, I am in favour of territorial defence, a step has been taken here, it is necessary to defend the territorial defence or service of the army in some tradition, I apologize, but territorial defences need to be worked out in some way. With this we have an extremely good experience and I am sure we must continue to do so. I'm not going to split it up because I think you know this thing. But what I was about to say in the development of the army, Dr. Dobovšek said that the military was also taking over some of the police tasks. In fact, I think they would have introduced this to me in some way on the Coast. The army, the Navy and the police, how it works on one small territory, 42 or 46 kilometers, the sea and the coast. I think it would be experimental for the whole country to do something and see how it works. And last but not least, because I'm in a bit of a hurry as far as soldiers are concerned. I think the relationship between officers and soldiers needs to be settled on its own, but soldiers need to be provided with social status as they see fit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u113	The word has magic. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u114	Thank you for your word. The army is a pillar of statehood. Only the law in this regard does not bring enough, because the Slovenian Army, this pillar of statehood has been the victim for quite some time now, that it may have been too much confidence in international cooperation, all partners, and above all everyone on the left has seen a reservoir in the Slovenian Army and then set that false dilemma: butter or cannons. Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, there is no security without the Slovenian Army, but without security there is no prosperity. That's what you call butter no more. There's nothing left. This is said to be the first thing that needs to be changed – and therefore this law is by no means sufficient – is the whole attitude towards the Slovenian Army. Domesticism must be a fundamental value that will prevail over a society that will prevail over an education that not only will be spoken of by all the presidents of the countries, but will in fact be practiced by every important political party, every once-in-a-lifetime authority, every nation and country. This is a relationship with the Slovenian Army, and we need it. In fact, this law can only be a dead letter on paper if it does not change everything else unless it becomes serving the country, defending the country, defending the patriotic value as it once was. Then there can be no debate, as we have heard today, about how this is a waste of money and the like. Without security, there's nothing. Security is a fundamental asset that we only know when we lose it. It's the same as health. But it's extremely difficult to get her back. The Slovenian Army has been developing for quite some time, unfortunately, in the wrong direction. The institution has been misused for all possible political accounts. You know what happened to that intense affair that ended in the Constitutional Court. She was abused by taking the money to give people too low a salary to leave her. It was misused because it was planned, and I am sure that this foundation of Slovenian statehood was deliberately destroyed. However, that coalition is unable to do so proves exactly what is happening today in Parliament. Look at this duality! When we discussed just an hour ago about the culturers, there is no problem, of all the state investments will just go 1.5% or a little more than some suggest, money for the culturers. For who, exactly? Drago Jančar does not need this, ladies and gentlemen, but he is a top creator, a holder of Slovenian culture, respected at home and abroad. Will it be those who do certain things with dogs, and that's why they get international awards? Will it be those who burn the crucifixes that are a monument to the dead, tragically, in an accident at sea drawing the Bezyan Mother of God with a rat in her arms? It's art, it'll be financed from it. For this group of insatiable leftist artists, quasi artists, because it is not any art, but the degradation of humanity, man and art, of course, needs money. And for that they would spend money, even though they actually destroy the nation and its essence and its culture. For the Slovenian Army, however, there are no real words of understanding and money, although it is the pillar of Slovenian statehood, it is a pillar of security without which further development and prosperity cannot be at all. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, this socialism in the human heads of all Slovenian left-wingers must once be put in the dump where it belongs. And put things in the right place so that patriotism will be the value that will be self-evident, which will be deliberately given to the child first the family, then the kindergarten, then the school. Not that today they take this away from them and raise some "multicultues". What a "multicults" society! "Multicults" was Brussels and Nice. This is "multicultues", ladies and gentlemen! And we must be very concerned about that. And the defense against this is a good Slovenian army, which all of you who have dealt with illegal migrants know very well. As long as it was just the police, it was a problem. The moment the Slovenian Army appeared, there was sudden peace, suddenly everyone listened to the orders, suddenly no more metal bottles filled with stones, and everything else that had happened before. It is said that the Slovenian Army is still important in the circumstances in which we are, because things have changed. Unfortunately, they've changed for the worse. Sadly, they have changed so that we can rely only on ourselves. Therefore, it is so essential that this attitude towards patriotism and thus to the Slovenian Army is permanently changed to make it a value again. Because without that, there'll be nothing. The country won't stay in the long run either. Many countries are willing to cooperate properly with us, and some, in my opinion, are not sufficiently taken into account. Most of all, there's a Multicity Group here. There is mutual, military and security assistance at such a level that it can only be an example to all formal international organisations and also to the European Union as a whole. Slovenia should become part of this area. Without this long-term survival for Slovenia, there will be no. However, in order to become an equal partner with such countries, we must first make peace with ourselves. We need to put patriotism in the place he's going. It must be a value for everyone, for every child, for each teacher, it must be self-evident that raising the Slovenian flag is a glorious moment. That the moment when the Slovenian anthem rings, the moment when it stands still and the joy is shown, we are proud to have a country that we have defended in the war for Slovenia. With the victory in the war for Slovenia we created it, it's about keeping it. In order to do so, we need the Slovenian Army, which will once again be the pillar of statehood in the full sense of that word, not by extending the rights or powers of the ODS as proposed at this time to have greater rights than Owl, but without proper control. You must've all missed that. But it is necessary to make an appropriate well-organised and well-paid Slovenian Army, which will be professional, which will provide not only security outside but also assistance in peace. It's not an army's job to defend the country from the attacker. The task of the army is also that of being of noble help when natural disasters occur. That is also why we need the Slovenian Army in the full sense of this word. And it is necessary to have the Slovenian Army so organised that it will respond to international challenges that are today more challenging and from a security point of view than ever since Slovenia's independence. Which means that it cannot and must not be a problem to seek appropriate resources, but in particular never and never should be a problem to change relations, although I know that this is the hardest, the relationship that goes from raising a family through kindergarten and then school to university when it comes to becoming an army and a patriotic value. Then people will decide again on this profession, then there will be no problem creating the Slovenian Army on solid foundations, on the basis of the foundations we founded for winning the war on Slovenia. At the time, we were united. Even when it comes to this issue, we would do well to show appropriate unity once again. But this marriage is not enough, and it is not enough. Much more will have to be changed than theory teaches, and unfortunately Slovenian practice shows. It's about values. When patriotism is once again a fundamental value, not only in words, but in actions, then the Slovenian Army will again be full of pillars of Slovenian statehood. And Slovenia needs this. He needs security. Security doesn't have a price.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert has the floor to prepare Mr Matjaž Hanžek. Here you go, Mrs. Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Look, I still can't get past what you, the president, said earlier when you spoke as a Member. You are also the Vice-President of the National Assembly, and it would be good to know how and how the assessment of the readiness of the Slovenian Army is awarded. Now you're saying there was no war. It would be nice for you to check the legal and constitutional provisions that the president of the country has to see that the military is self-assessment and that assessments are made on this basis. And these estimates are four years in a row, the lowest or lowest possible. Well, here comes my debate. The fact is, if the assessment of the Slovenian Army is at the lowest possible point, it means that something is wrong. It has been stressed that we will have new legal arrangements on the table that will allow this situation to improve, and that we will move forward. Right now we're talking about the defense law. Today's debate, with the exception of individuals, who I think should not speak in any way about this subject at all, is constructive and actually wants to be of some added value in the final decision on what the law on defence will be. But look, the proposal to hold this debate has been tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party. The coalition itself had no interest. Today, I have heard quite a few comments from SMC on the proposal for a law that there should be a public debate or that it would be useful, but I do not know why you did not propose it. I would like to support her in any way and personally believe that the public debate on these opinions on both laws would be more than welcome. This is a system that is in crisis, a system that is also poorly assessed by self-assessment, and a system that also shows some of the country's values. I'll tell you why. It is a desire to increase interest in employment in the Slovenian Army and to make sure that individuals from the system do not leave. Of course, we know and we all know that password in the work of the country. However, in some ways it is believed that patriotism works primarily in the Slovenian Army, those who still have a special relationship with this country are, after all, willing to sacrifice their lives, even though they have families and their children. And families can lose them – can't they, Mr. Jurša? That's very funny. When I tell you the case, you will understand why individuals are thinking about whether they would stay in this system or leave it, whether they actually operate in the Slovenian Army system or if this system is somehow stolen. Not to get me wrong, but you know, we may be forgetting some things that, in society, did not have so little or so little influence. Let me remind you, for example, of Popov. Look, we've had a lot of debate on this issue on the Defence Committee. The fact is that at that time a very high person in the hierarchy of the Slovenian Armed Forces Brigadier Humar gave an opinion on individuals who were supposed to be experts in the Slovenian Army. You're supposed to be in court after the Pop case. At that time we talked about this and, as the highest authority of the Slovenian Army, the head of the Slovenian Army was not informed of this matter. He wasn't informed. And what was the final result of all this? That Popov, who attacked as a soldier, as one of the higher soldiers of JLA our country, was forgiven in Slovenia, and now the taxpayers must also say that those who participated in the war for Slovenia and set up their heads to maintain our independence, pay the penalty for Popov. For example, in neighbouring Croats, this was handled in the proper manner in court, and Popov was punished. In our country, however, he was forgiven for his employees in the Slovenian Army. And what happened because of these experts and all those involved in this process? Both of them received an oral warning, in the mockery of the entire system, they both work, I think that they are in Mr Poljsak's unit or belong to Mr Poljsak, and he was the one who gave them a reminder, and Mr Humar remains in his high position. Then I have here an invitation for October 2rd and 3rd 2017, an event taking place at Brdo pri Kranj and talks for 20 years in the service of peace. Do you know who the lecturers are at this important event for 20 years in the service of peace? Mr. Poljšak and Mr. Humar. That's a reward. You know, that's the prize. As long as there are people in the Slovenian Army at the Ministry who will support such a concept, the Slovenian Army will not recover. And I still say that it is in the interest of someone in this country that the Slovenian Army is being so refinedly destroyed. I will tell you more about concrete solutions, but what the law on service in the Slovenian Army is supposed to bring to the soldiers. True, every euro is very important to them. We have talked about this many times in the Slovenian Democratic Party and that in fact some cannot literally support their family. But the value system created by those who run this ministry, those who run this government, which you do not support in some parts of the ministry, should, at least compared to the Ministry of the Interior, where there is a really big difference, but you will make up your mind at home, is a problem of evaluation or attitude towards the Slovenian Army. Believe me, that means a lot more to many people in the system and it hurts a lot more. It also hurts those who have lost relatives in the war for Slovenia, that such things are happening and that at the end of nothing, they are rewarded with lectures to teach 20 years of peace, and on the other hand they allow those who have shot at our Slovenia to become forgiven, and then they do not write us anything good. We can write a law with gold letters, and we can frame it, and it won't help. I have to do my own thing, Minister, with only a solution for the ODS. You are actually putting the matter today from one extreme to another. Think about it in the final solution. I don't know who led you to this, but today, for individual ODS tasks, you sign things, then it'll be sort of a separate formation. I think it's a mistake. I'm just hoping that's not why we're gonna find ourselves in some weird wiretaps again, and so on, because this abuse can happen very quickly. At least two years, three years from now, we did not have specific agenda items, if in any way we can call it that. So think about it, or at least explain why such a solution, because in some way we can hide the responsibility of then the minister, I will not say you specifically, but in the future. Something's ordered, and there's no more direct responsibility. But if one head falls down, it's no longer such a problem. What is important is the benefit that that individual has made for certain matters. In view of what we face in this country, when different things fall out of closets, from billions of money laundering and so on, the question is what else is going to come to light or what else is going to happen or what else is going to happen in the future. I do not support such a solution in this sense. I believe that the proposaler also had a desire to prepare some proposal for a law that would be useful, but without a relationship with the Slovenian Army, without the magnification of the red star that was on the thin JLA, it will not work, it will not work. You're just a minister like all those who work in the Slovenian Army, you shouldn't afford it. You can't paint with a red star from the JLA tanks and on the other hand talk about the Slovenian Army that beat those tanks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Jursha, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u118	Thank you. Yes, you know, more and more in this room are some methods of speaking and warning individuals who express willfully with their facial mimicry; whether it will be personal will or a majority will. This time, too, colleague Anja expressed this will because she saw a smile on my face. This smile was not meant for her debate, but for my personal expression of some satisfaction. This story, for example, when a colleague tells us how MEPs take dogs on their way to Ljubljana during working hours and what is happening on the toilet, is insanely damaging to the reputation of this National Assembly. I can't really ask you, Vice President, to remind Mrs Anjo Bah Žibert of this, because you probably haven't even seen my face. But it is still right to say – because you mentioned, colleague, my expression of the face – that this laugh was not meant for you, but it was my personal pleasure. What was this personal pleasure, and you mustn't care.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Procedurally, please, Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Chairman. I just said you laughed. You laughed, I didn't say why you laughed. So I did not evaluate you or characterize you; but in this national assembly, you characterized your colleague Bratusek. You said her face was on the line. That was your statement, so you're the last person to ask me to be warned if I tell anyone that he's laughing at this national council. Isn't that nice of you to laugh? Do you have any bad news? I don't have one.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr. Jurša didn't tell me to warn you, so I won't. But let's leave. Mr. Marko Ferruga, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u122	Thank you for your words. I will not interfere with this dispute here. I will turn back to our debate on the defence law. The issue of backward is huge, large, even as far as the Slovenian Armed Forces and the Defence Act are concerned; from how it is possible to let such a system go to this point, and why and to whom it was in the interest. The next question, which somehow revolves around my head, is how is it possible for this army to be politicized in this time of year instead of professionalizing. And another of the questions that I am being addressed in this regard is how these funds and operations in the Slovenian Army were led and whether they were optimal or not. It is clear that we had various ministers, formerly, we had a minister who reduced the budget by 110 million euros, the budget is the right one; and it is virtually impossible to make up for it in some normal, timely period. Whoever manages to make up for such a flaw in the development of the Slovenian Army would be a wizard. Then we had a minister who was more involved in the army than he was in the naming of the army, which was his main task, but let's just leave it at that. The fact is that since 1994 this law has not been updated and this is where the Minister is commended for having started. We can be a little critical, and we have to admit that this is in the final part of the mandate and that a person somehow feels that he is in a hurry. Why don't we just let it go? The thoughts that have already been given here, and the minister has already said her part about the fact that the cross-cutting issue has not yet been completed, that the unions are somehow held back, that the profession says it is a cosmetic correction; one is for, one is not. All of this needs to be taken into account in both the lease and somehow the best. In my opinion, this law is part of a broader security-military very complex system. Military and civilian activity is intertwined here, which is clearly to be taken into account, even at the present time, which is very dynamic and very variable. Today, the Slovenian army is increasingly involved in other non-military obligations and matters such as floods, glands, natural disasters, migrants and so on. And that's very commendable. On this site and on this occasion, I would also like to thank myself once again for this unselfish action by all members of the Slovenian Army, because their assistance in all of these segments was indispensable. And here Mr Weber also had a very good initiative when he was referring to the attempt to establish that combined unit, which would also be suitable for civil action. And here, Janko, all honor. We must be aware, however, that these are not the primary tasks of the military, which shows that the classical way of understanding and functioning of the army is changing greatly. We come from the classic perception of the working circle of the Slovenian Army in a more complex way, we can also say hybrid. And that's why we need a broader view, a broader system that covers all of the above. And that's where this law comes in. Time and threats are now significantly different than they were in 1994; and worse still, they change very quickly. In doing so, an additional variable of an unknown course of events has been given. Slovenia, as such, is a small country which, in my opinion and precisely because of these limited possibilities and resources, needs to specialize and find its niche within the alliance, where it will be the best and most successful. From the alliance, however, he must “use” to cover all the other flaws we have. In my view, the law should be clear and short, following the example of Western countries, with a clear vision and, of course, in accordance with our options and resources that we have and want to have and develop. What kind of defence system we want and how it will work at home and abroad; this should be one of the main issues. In my humble opinion, however, here the debate will probably go on, the legal content somehow does not belong in this law, because, unfortunately, these contents change faster than the defence law itself, which should be like one vision, a fil Rouge for a longer period of time, which survives this government and the next government; and not because of this or any pressure, political or otherwise, changes. How many of these things we are talking about today, and the solution to this law is also rethought by the alliance, because we are part of Europe, the NATO alliance and are committed to international cooperation, here I think this law is going in the right direction. And the questions are also open here. As a single great positive, I see the terminology level that has been refreshed and renewed in this law, and we must not forget one very important fact, which has been very rarely heard today, that this government with this minister has stopped the trend of decline. We must be aware that we are still not at some optimum level and that our task is here, all of us, to raise what we can in accordance with our capabilities; and this is also seen in this coming budget; it is said that steps are being taken in a positive direction. As for what is important and how we will use these funds, whether we use them effectively or not, who will watch over these funds, this is also one of the key issues that we somehow always avoid. I hope that I can, and I also wish that, with these additional funds and this law as some kind of roof law and along with the Service Act in the Slovenian Army, we can say that we have given the right elements and lead to greater and better defence capacity. I am absolutely in favour of having an effective, professional Slovenian army, not some politicisation of all this. I hope that these steps will turn this trend in the right direction. In my view, there is a general debate where all conceptual orientations for the further development of the Slovenian Armed Forces and the defence system with all stakeholders should also be crystallized. However, I do not want them to make changes due to changes and two-thirds of the Members to adopt a law because it has to be a long-term vision; not an ad hoc one, and because it has to be. Therefore, with great responsibility, we must approach the adoption of this legislation by all of us and all stakeholders in this process. Today we are taking the first step, an important step and, as I understand it, all the political parties here support what the Ministry and the Minister are doing. However, I think that there is still a considerable part of the agreement, of the coordination, that we really should say that this is the law that has been set on fire by two thirds of the Members. Everything that has been imported before, unfortunately, cannot be fixed and this time to reach, absolutely not. However, regulating the defence sector is a process that requires time in addition to material and financial resources; all these situations should also be regulated and directed towards a positive trend. This law is going in the right direction and I think there is still some effort to be made, the minister and the team, to come up with the right solutions. I think we're on our way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u123	Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor. Prepare Mr Matjaž German and Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My fellow German will wait a little longer, after all, the Germans have many advantages, but this is where the Slovenians will come. It's a bit of a joke, but it's still a serious topic today. The law, which speaks of the type, organisation and scope of the defence of the state, is, in my opinion, one of the most important fundamental laws of some Slovenian sovereignty, some statehood. The Slovenian army comes from the 1991 victory army and, as such, should have a special space in Slovenian society. Unfortunately, with the passage of time from our independence, we have begun to forget about the Slovenian Army. We have begun to forget about the care of soldiers, officers, officers, military personnel and also civilians who are employed in the Slovenian Army. In order for the law to have a complete overhaul, the date of its creation also speaks; the first law on defence was adopted on 20 December 1994, entered into force on 15 January 1995; and since then many things have happened in our narrow and wider space. The Balkan wars ended. At the time of the marriage, a good few hundred kilometers from us were still at war in Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and later in Kosovo. The law focused primarily on our own defence, a large part of the law was prepared to have our own defence integrity, not so much on that we would once be a member of NATO, not so much on collective defence; we were still under the embargo at the time of creation. It must be realized that at the time we were unable to buy weapons, that we had to find out somehow, that we were illegally buying weapons in the event of a Serbian counterattack so that we could defend ourselves at that time. Fortunately, in Croatia and in the Bosnia and Herzegovina, some democratic emerging countries have destroyed the forces of evil, former forces, who wanted the Serbian nationalist army together with the indoctrination of communism to bring back to this place. Lucky for us, they didn't make it. And today, dear colleagues, after two decades of peace in this area or in the wider European space, we face new security risks. The law comes at the right time or at the extreme time in the national assembly. What I've looked at in the defence law, here we have to look both, twins, although there is another law, the law on service in the Slovenian Army, somehow depends on the law on defence. If the law on defence as such, colleagues, is not adopted, the law on service in the Slovenian Army is essentially null and void, because it very much relates to the structure, to the functioning of the defence system and somehow only specialises in special work, specific work in the Slovenian Army, which is divided by the principles of the rule of law and subordination. Those solutions that are questionable to me, although, I must admit, I support the amendment, are still some extensions of the powers of the military intelligence service. Here we had a slip of a fellow Vebra. We've seen how he somehow used intelligence for purposes that were not for the defence of the state and have nothing to do with the security of our country. I then explained this as a former member of the Slovenian Army, as a war veteran, as a commander in the Slovenian Army, as someone who went through various reorganisations of the Slovenian Army, and as someone who, for the most part, looked at all the cable and coast links in the Slovenian Army from within and from outside, also as an engineer; and survived at Poček for as long as possible more time than colleague Weber, when he was still the Defence Minister. Comrade Weber, I can see that you are already nodding or giving me the wrong hand, but we can face again what mistakes are and what are the competences of military intelligence services; and what is critical infrastructure and what is not critical infrastructure. Since I can see that this law is now coming before the National Assembly, I will explain it the second time. What is important, I would like to draw attention to the status of soldiers, subordinates, officers and civilians; without the people in the Slovenian Army there will be no Slovenian Army. And at a time when the economy does not have a staff when we face structural unemployment, when the Slovenian Armed Forces increasingly acquires funds that are extremely complex, technical requirements, even the Slovenian Army needs all the staff, mostly the technical personnel. We don't need FDV graduates and other graduates. 80% of the required personnel in the Slovenian Army are technical staff – whether at the level of secondary vocational schools, dual school systems, higher vocational schools, higher vocational schools, university or postgraduate programmes. That's what the foundation is. We have faced these challenges, security risks, cybernetic intrusions into military systems; so far we have not been able to form a cyber security unit in the Slovenian Army, because we do not get the IT engineers for such a payment and we will not get them. Therefore, the status of soldiers, officers, generals and, above all, civilians in military service is extremely important. People leaving the Slovenian Army who have the status of civilians who are poorly paid and have a whole range of education abroad, such as with regard to the servicing of Patri. This is a complex vehicle. It's about combat techniques. It's about caterpillars and bikes. I'm also alerting you to these statuses. In my opinion, the pay grade is miserable for other public servants, including police officers, which is why a soldier can only work until the age of 45 and is the end of his story. If, during that time, he had not been released to another pillar, officer, or officer, he had completed that service. Social security has so far been very questionable. The soldier must be mentally prepared. There is a so-called security risk for soldiers. The ODS does not even need to tell a soldier, someone who is applying for a job, or someone who wants to extend the contract, what was the cause of his security risk, and this person cannot extend the contract. He doesn't need an explanation. The next important thing, it is also important to settle if we look at the statuses, the soldiers are in working hours that are specific, from morning to evening or 24 hours literally on the ground, at minus 20. When he is no longer physically prepared, he has a status, i.e. a fixed-term contract for 5 or 10 years, you need to know that a soldier cannot take some long-term housing loan, create some material condition for a family, that's what I'm talking about. The reward for the work of soldiers, officers, subordinates is for me, when I see what payment classes the others have, let's say here, in the National Assembly, some classical bureaucrats, and how many of us besides Members here, about 400 people are employed to know the public. As a former member of the Slovenian Armed Forces, I was appalled by certain payment classes in the public sector, the wider public sector compared to the Slovenian Army. He also pays the officers if we go from the rank of lieutenant to the 28th grade, here always goes after about 2 payment classes, Lieutenant – 30, Captain – initial class 32, Major – 37, Lieutenant – 39. According to this proposal, the colonel is the last act of officer. So we get the rank of Brigadier General, after the new Brigadier, who was the last highest officer. Finally, the rank of general, as all NATO-standards know, is a general one star. We have a Major General, a Lieutenant General and a General, a four-star general as the highest rank. The specification is also among the officers. As you know, in the Slovenian Army, we also have the suggestion of a German subroutine order of 8 subordinate acts. It's been a few years. So we have: a sergeant, a senior sergeant, a staff sergeant, a senior staff sergeant, a senior lieutenant, a staff sergeant, and a senior staff sergeant, who represents the highest officer who sits at the General Staff and is the top of the sub-staff line in the Slovenian Army. The wages of all these people are at a miserable level, as well as the salaries of the soldiers. The relationship between these spells, I think, is appropriate, but of course we must move the complete pyramid at least a few payment classes higher or provide these Slovenian Army members with special benefits. Whether they should have a free apartment, literally free of charge for young families, if we want to raise the number of members of the Slovenian Army again to about 7 000 500 or even 8 000 in the coming years. I think the current number is 6 000 900, and I already know today, as a former member, that people will no longer come to the Slovenian Army under such conditions for this change. You must be aware that one of the relations in the Slovenian Army, which were not bad, the Slovenian Army was extremely professional, with at least excesses; the other is a material basis. And by this law, one and the other, you do not provide some serious material basis. People – during this time and in this situation – will no longer get into the Slovenian Army. I will conclude now because colleague Mahnic has some more replicas; I will continue with the second marriage when I answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u125	Mr Matjaž German has the floor. Prepare Mr Matjaž Han and Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Nevertheless, we are concluding a debate on one of the most important topics at this meeting. Many of us, from all political families, have expressed their concern and expectations to all of us, the common Slovenian Army, which has been in the last seven years, if I may say so, before one of the greatest trials or most important battles. Indicators are relatively encouraging and good. This trend, which has so marked the work of our soldiers and soldiers in the last seven years, is in some ways also concluded by the adoption of the two laws that we are witnessing today and that we are talking about. Certainly two very important trends and a very important milestone. Not only have we prepared an army in the end of this mandate since 2010, but we can think more seriously and more specifically about its future, especially with the law we have today on the table, which finally places the Slovenian Army in the 21st century. It was well said on the basis of which laws and at what time were adopted the operations of the current army – the army of the Republic of Slovenia. There was a lot of emphasis on the future, about the present; but not only do we want our girls and boys to be gone, I will say in parable, barefoot and naked; we will be able to be proud of them, so that we can count on them when it is absolutely necessary to count on them at home and abroad. Above all, I would stress the international dimension, focusing on Europe and the Euro-Atlantic link, because in the coming weeks and months we will be witnessing security policy reform in the European Union. It is and is preparing documents, acts that will unify and evaluate the new security policy of the European Community. Why are these acts important to you? These acts are important to talk about an army that will enter the 21st century. Because we are constantly talking about the Republic of Slovenia as the country most integrated into the European Community, even in the foreign policy context. I am not just talking about the Schengen, I am not talking about the monetary union, I am not just talking about the membership of the European Union or about the OECD Group, the most developed countries in the world; we are getting closer to and closer to what will be the topic number one or one of the most important topics in the coming months. Security policy is, in the rhetoric of European countries and also the Social Democrats in its greatest width, when we talk about security, not only about defence, but generally about security, it places itself in the highest positions of the European agenda. It is therefore important that today, as well as in further procedures, a very detailed debate is held on the future of the Slovenian Army, including in the context of international connections. The European Community is preparing its security and defence policy, within which we can also place the army of the Republic of Slovenia by means of these acts and further actions. Nevertheless, the Republic of Slovenia has found its niche area on the international scene and is deeply respected; sometimes significantly more than we respect it. I would like the Slovenian Army to be well equipped, highly motivated and educated, and to feel part of a world that expands peace that helps a fellow human at a time when it needs help, not only in natural conditions, but in circumstances where people themselves cannot help. It is therefore important that we have achieved what we have not been able to achieve in recent years because of not only the presence of our colleague Janko Vebra, and in the recent period of Minister Katič, we have not been able to achieve what we have been able to do in recent years because of the circumstances that have been. Practically not one government, not another, nor a third was in circumstances where this trend could change. I'm talking about the trend, the financial work, to somehow allow our army to develop on the basis of the ambitions that we've set ourselves within the Alliance community, if I may say so, or the NATO alliance. It is important that from now on, we will all work together, regardless of the differences, to build a reorganisation of the new Slovenian Army, which, in the presence of our alliances, will act in a modern, niche, intelligent way and know how to move within this as a modern army, prepared for all the inconveniences that the modern world in some way expects and requires of us. I would like to try, as much as possible, to find a common language in the context of differences and to act constructively. In the long arc I also avoid personally to in any way attach an ideology from the past, because alone and my client colleagues are focused on the future of the Republic of Slovenia and also its army, which I wish we could all be satisfied and proud in the future, as we have traditionally been. Let me finish. I also look forward to further discussions on the Defence Committee. Madam Minister, you also have a lot of courage in the future, especially in aligning thousands of different opinions with the common goal of realizing that this is our army, one and only. And with these good promises, I would like all of them to confirm together not only today, but also to cooperate further and to confirm in the second and third reading the two laws that the Slovenian Army so urgently needs to enter the 21st century. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u127	Mr Jan Mahnic has the floor in this case. Mr Marjan Dolinšek and then the representative of the Government should be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u128	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. If I just comment or ask for a moment. To fully update the system and to make development standstill ; development certainly cannot be resolved by law, nor can it be driven in the right direction, but if we look at Article 27, which states in the first paragraph that the Slovenian Army provides and contributes to security and stability by its planned development and operation, maintaining readiness and so on. [[…]] Do you know what this development is like under the rule of Mira Cerar? The purchase of seven eight-wheelers in 2018 and the purchase of seven eight-wheelers in 2019, as we heard last on the Defence Committee. So in two years, you can buy fourteen eight-wheelers. Real development, bravo! It's a real development. You can write in here that there will be development; but if this development is not, if you do not buy equipment, by talking mainly in the purchase of basic equipment, then it is without connection anything. If I touch further Article 105, where the conditions for employment are in the Slovenian Army. We had already warned, dual citizenship must be prohibited. That's not in there. That's what we're going to suggest. It should also be a condition that, after a certain period of time, according to July 18, you should not have been a member of the Yugoslav People's Army. This, Madam Minister, you can expect and will be one of those conditions that I have discussed. It was interesting when Mr Kopmeyer said we were adding another general act. That's not true, we support it. Slovenia is here to the refugees not only on the designations that define generals, because NATO does not know what kind of act anyone has, because we are the only one who does not have these stars. Besides, we're the only ones who don't have four general rank. We know who we gave the Brigadier for, not the Brigadier General; then the politicians and probably the current ones went very far to be addressed by the act of general Tone Krković. I agree with some of the views of the President of the National Assembly, Mr Brglez, on the need for a majority, but I can say that, in his debate, I have seen anti-NATO rhetoric in a more sophisticated way than the United Left does, however. However, it is reasonable to ask about the deployment of an army when protecting the border if this two-thirds majority still makes sense or if an absolute majority of all Members and Members would suffice. I also found it interesting to prove that you didn't read the law. Mr Hainz spoke and some others spoke about the possibility of re-enlisting. This was possible already after this Defence Act, when the law changed, even when it went into professionalization for joining NATO, the possibility of still being a recruiter has been abandoned, so it is no news. From 1994 to today – major changes, said the minister. It is said whether you want to say that in all these 23 years the Slovenian Army has acted unlawfully; and that all of a sudden, after 23 years of coming this law, it will work as it must and that everything will be legal. And it is interesting, too, Mr Hainz said that it would now be possible to introduce territorial defence. No, that's not true. This law abolishes military territorial commands, which were a framework for, say, setting up a system like this. More later than that.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u129	Mr. Marjan Dolinšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u130	Thank you, President. First, I would like to say that there have been various concerns and that we have heard today, on a certain level, that the military is the first and the nation-building component of one country. Any different thinking, even in today's situation, I believe it is very irresponsible, irresponsible to citizens and citizens, because I hope that it has not yet been forgotten in 1991, when the then Territorial Defence and then Slovenian Militia protected the self-sustainment processes so that today we can be in a single country. It is true that this law will not save everything; we must be clear; but after so many years, it is finally time for this marriage to appear on the table. Anyway, Minister, we have him on the table, after a few ministers and ministers who ran this department, you brought a new marriage to the National Assembly. The question arises, however, what some former ministers, in particular in the last two or three mandates, have done, especially since 2004. We know. In 2004, we entered NATO. All that changed, and we still had a marriage — and so far we have — from 1994. The main point of change was in 2004 when we joined collective defence; and none of your predecessors joined in amending the law. It is also true that things need to be resolved gradually. For too long, so to speak, since 2009, the area has been neglected by the Defence Department that it was no longer possible, especially in the financial sense. As a result, if you don't have the money, it's probably hard to make a big deal out of the progress we're not even talking about. And now this picture is finally changing. Let's be so honest. I believe the opposition's colleagues are also quietly happy. Of course, there's always too little money. But I've pointed out many times before, it's not just about money. Status in the Slovenian Army, status! We have already had many meetings of the Defence Committee on this subject, as far as the situation in the Slovenian Army is concerned; yes, we could have now had a billion money, the question is, the situation would probably still be the same. First of all, it's a process. I believe – and also the law with additions when it goes forward in the procedure – and I want us to improve things along with the opposition with certain amendments. The law itself, such as it is, without being long and critical of it now, is yet to be complemented, is needed. If we look at what's been bothering me all this time, the articles in the law of employment. I do not know one member of NATO, one of the European countries which would have in one, two, three articles in the roof law, which is the law on defence, the content of the labour law; as an example of this bill that we now have on the table. If we look at Article 110 — annual leave, Article 111 — the use of leave; I cannot swallow it. To tell you the truth, I can't. It doesn't work together. And I believe that we can even fix these things, I believe, I still believe it should look something different now. And I miss myself more substantively in some parts. It is true that it was necessary to correct a terminology that was completely outdated and no longer drank water anywhere, since we know that after so many years things have only changed completely. I do not see the clearly drawn, long-term direction of the development of the Slovenian defence system, which such a roofing act should carry. A key moment, we have already heard this from some of the debaters today, and I must agree, and let us not forget the training of citizens and citizens. We have a professional army, we have a professional army. I say we have a good army, a good army. All the problems that we know are arising from the lack of funds that are now slowly being replaced and major problems remain with the staff. I would then discuss this in the second part, at the point of the next law, which is bound by this law on defence, so that I will not go into this part. Therefore, I am sure that together in the next procedure we will agree that it will be acceptable for everyone. I wish he was acceptable to the opposition as well. We know we need a two-thirds majority. The responsibility of all of us, not just the coalitions, is because we are responsible to the country, to citizens and citizens, in particular to ensure the defence and security of all citizens. We know that everyone, in part, in some part from their point of view, in view of the political direction, may even in any amendment, will want to enforce and propose in this way; but I would like to exclude this politically as much as possible, however. This is the umbrella act of the Department of Defence of one country, now we are talking about our umbrella act – the Act on the Defence of the Republic of Slovenia. And let us give of ourselves after so many years; let us make efforts; let us make a fine work; and for all who are acceptable there is virtually no law; let us be honest. Each one would arrange a few things for himself and place a certain article in order to have his own article inside more because of any such or other vision. However, I do not think that we should ignore the fact that the very content of this law clearly defines the purpose and concept of defence itself. What I have already said here, I would define only two segments more clearly, namely the content and purpose of the general military obligation. Let's look ahead, turn the time 15 years ahead, what it'll look like if we look at our children, our grandchildren. In this regard, let us put forth so much effort and start to think seriously, no matter how much someone likes or dislikes him. We know the profession has come to certain conclusions. Even if we read, I read specifically from Mr Korez of our army when he said what a psychophysical condition they are today. It's not about generalizing, but it's actually about thinking this way. Now we have this opportunity because it's gonna be 10, 15 years, so fast. Who imagined that what happened in 1991 would happen; and that we had to grab arms and defend our independence. I tell you the truth, I never imagined it. And that's what happened. One day, one year. We know the saying: Let us act as if there will be 100 years of peace, but we are preparing ourselves as if there will be war tomorrow. And even if we look at this part, let's not think so narrowly. I don't see soldiers in uniform anymore but only with guns. And that's why I have doubts about those solutions, as far as education is concerned, or what it's called. Today, young people are more educated than they were five years ago, perhaps ten years ago, or 20 years ago. And my thought, I have to put this particular point out, today, young people are studying at 4 years of age, my grandson is three and a half years old, and he already controls the phone and the Internet, a little bit of a basis to get cartoons, but how progress goes forward – fast, sunny. And let's keep in mind – it's been partially exposed before, I wouldn't repeat it now – cyber threats, so we're going to have to face it more seriously, put it in place and define it. A classic soldier with a simple rifle, a battlefield, I don't see it in 10 years. No, we see how the war is going today — through keyboards, burglaries, and so on. In some part it will always remain and must remain, but the initial task and function of the Slovenian Army is to defend our country. The original. And to participate in the Allied collective defence forces. That's what we're committed to getting into NATO. I'd like to be here, not because I come from the Territorial Defense, but from experience itself. The second year will be 50 years from the establishment of the Territorial Defence, who knows well how it was established in Slovenia in 1968 and how territorial defence developed. In other republics, some didn't even know what it was, let's be honest, who knows what. And yet, in some way, it would have been based on the tradition of Territorial Defence, because if the then Territorial Defence had not been so qualified in 1991 and had such a way of fighting, the question would have been, if I had defended it, a question. And it turned out, and in some part of this tradition, I would have come out, even in this defense law. As far as resources are concerned, we will never be able to have everything. If anyone thinks that we will have our own Aeroflot, tank units and so on, we know; but money will always be too little, let's be honest. Here we need to think in the direction – what you have already stated several times and it was heard on the occasion of various visits when we went somewhere to visit; even in Kosovo, when we were with the Italian commander – good cooperation with other NATO partners. We don't have to buy everything ourselves. Then cooperate with Hungary and so on, so I won't mention it now. We must use these resources in an appropriate way, and secondly, we must take advantage of our participation in economic work, in war production, for various purposes for military purposes. Somehow you have to work with your hand in hand and I think there are options here, what has already proved to be good practice in the meantime. I think that all solutions, we just have to think positively first, but if we keep being critical, but I think or hope that we are all able to lead together to a law that will not be a hundred percent, but it will happen, and it will be accepted. [[…]] The second year is likely to be a lot more, including various assessments by Nate, likely to come, as we heard in some part a little while ago, by the American president. And he's probably going to change things, too. In view of the new situation around us and the new threat, it may be necessary to supplement a section of the Defence Act in the autumn. But we must already have the maximum coverage of all areas, including cyber threats, so that we will not then be able to go on a non-stop trip for every little thing and hunt for a two-thirds majority in the National Assembly. Minister, I want and hope that there is no different and wrong thinking; in good faith. I believe that we all want to be as good a marriage as possible, to adopt it, but that is why it takes effort. Let us listen, let us hear and be heard; but it is not enough, if we just listen, that is too little. I don't want to go into some detail about what was going on when the new law was born, and the inter-resortary disharmony and so on. Perfect coordination will never be like this, that's what we know. I think the efforts that have been made so far have not been in vain. But it has not been easy and it will not be easy in the future. Finally, I must draw attention to a certain fact, which, as the first debater, Dr Brglez, is a broad warning, namely the relationship between the National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia with regard to jurisdiction in the field of defence; within the meaning of Article 101, paragraph 8, and in conjunction with Article 101, paragraph 2, and Article 103, paragraph 3 and 4; the competence to send and so on not to be too long. Although I am more of a supporter of the military work, that I do not know what actors will be asked about certain directions in cases, because I say that I will not be too long, I do not think it is acceptable for any government to decide without the National Assembly at any time. Let's go back to 1991, 1990 and maybe sooner. Preparations, preparations and then the decision in the National Assembly to go to our own sovereignty and independent state. The National Assembly is the one who must be the first and the last to confirm the final point on the i. However, the National Assembly! We must not allow this to be the responsibility and decision of any government. This is very important, because people have chosen us on the ground. The governments didn't elect people. And we are responsible for citizens and citizens in the defence and security field, so we must also retain and retain this right. Here I hope that the process will then go forward on the path of this law, so that we can write these things properly, clearly and unequivocally identify that it will not come at certain times – we know what kind of secret we have been in at the time of the migration issue when we adopted Article 37a and so on, this must not happen to us anymore. So let's look at the entire width so we don't forget anything. Even if five days later the law will be adopted, it will be as good as possible; that then we will not have bad conscience and after six months, because we have forgotten something because we have not defined something, we have come back with some addition. So much for me. Normally, I'll support myself like I said before. But I also expect all my colleagues and colleagues to let this law go forward in the next procedure and be awarded it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u131	The replica has Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u132	Thank you for your word, chairman. Mr Dolinšek explained how he strongly supported the transfer of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces to a foreign mission to the jurisdiction of government towers to the National Assembly and thus to the breadth of public debate. This, of course, is the right attitude. This position was also advocated in Levica some year, perhaps a year and a half ago, when we brought exactly such a proposal to this national assembly. But what has happened to this proposal on the Defence Committee, which he considered to be his mother's working body? Mr Dolinšek raised his hand immediately at the beginning of the hearing: procedurally, and I propose that this proposal is not suitable for further consideration. Together with the other members of the coalition, he conducted a procedural torpedo that the debate on this proposal, which is now so vehemently advocated by colleague Dolinšek in the National Assembly, was not possible at all. So neither the debate nor the debate. Today, a good half year before the elections, colleague Dolinšek, like the President of the National Assembly himself, is the largest pensioner, the largest Democrat who would like to see the deployment of an army abroad debated in the National Assembly. I can only hope that this kind of duality will now, just before the elections, actually spill into action and will not remain at the level of the various propaganda mill and that the coalition Members are making themselves beautiful.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u133	We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which he gets the word of a representative of the Government. Ms Andrej Katič, Minister for Defence, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u134	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members and Members! I will try again to present those most important changes or innovations, and at the same time to answer all your initiatives, comments, questions or comments. First of all, when I came to the Ministry of Defence, we approached the preparation of a strategic defence review. On the one hand, the Strategic Review of Defence covered a thorough analysis of what has been done in the past, what is good, what is bad; and also a series of measures, what we need to do to improve the current situation or to move forward in the right direction. At the same time as the preparation of the strategic review of the defence, other activities took place. One was the recast of legislation, the drafting of a new law on defence and the law on service in the Slovenian Army; also on the basis of the starting points that we presented to you and whose confirmation we also received here in the National Assembly. And in line with the outcome of the strategic defence review, there is also a recast of the strategic documents or a review of how current some of the strategic documents we have are. And maybe, speaking of which, not all the content of the defense law is. We must not forget that we still have the Resolution on the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Slovenia, the Resolution on the General Long-term Programme for the Development and Equipment of the Slovenian Armed Forces by 2025, the Defence Strategy of the Republic of Slovenia, the Doctrine of the Military Strategic Reserve of the Republic of Slovenia; that the Government – and you too – should be aware of this – the Medium-term Defence Programme of the Republic of Slovenia, and a number of other documents. Accordingly, it was found that the biggest wound to the defence system was caused by the lack of sufficient resources available to it or that, even when activities were identified, in particular as regards development, the modernisation of the Slovenian Armed Forces, funds were taken away from it and that this development had stalled. That is why we fought at the Ministry of Defence, including with your support and obedience to the government, to obtain more resources from the defence system. Last but not least, let me also point out that, at the same time, activities have been carried out to agree on the objectives of the capacity of the Republic of Slovenia, which we will contribute. Now we've got two steps ahead of us here. On the one hand, as regards what we will contribute to the Alliance; on the other hand, we are now talking a lot as a new moment at the level of the European Union on the Defence and Security Strategy, on the further development of the European Union and, if I may speak, on permanent structural cooperation, or on PESCO, which is as important for our area as the euro or Schengen issue in the past in other areas. Let me present some of the solutions in more detail. Updated solutions in the law governing the fundamental issue of the organisation and completion of the Slovenian Army and military service reflect the solutions identified in the long-term strategic orientations, according to those guidelines adopted in the past by the National Assembly, the military profession as such, individual governments; and solutions that are also coordinated in the alliance. We align the area of civil or non-military defence with the solutions used by other comparable countries in crisis management and response to various crises. We are not alone, we must always respond together. Comments were made on the field of professional intelligence, counterintelligence and defence security. Our proposal envisaged greater professional autonomy of the intelligence security service in order to be organised as a body within the Ministry and its Director-General would be aligned with the Director of the Slovenian Intelligence Agency and the Director-General of the Police. Mr Dobovšek, Ambassador Žibert, commented on this, and I think that any of you may be interested. With this proposal, we did not want to transfer the Minister's responsibilities to the Director. And I certainly agree that we will take another look here, check it out, and then, together with you, come up with a suitable solution. It was said in the debate that we regulate and transpose the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the simplification of the conditions for the transfer of defence products within the Community, as regards the provisions on the production of military weapons, equipment and other defence products, including their transport. We are updating the defence system by means of a bill. And here again, of course, we take into account the existing strategic documents in a way that we will check them and verify them where they need to be updated; and also the level of development of the current defence system achieved. The defence system consists of the Slovenian Army and the non-military part of the defence system, supporting the functioning of the Slovenian Army and the Allied Forces and planning the operation of the defence system in crisis, emergency and war. Defence planning is defined in a new way. This includes development planning, preparation of defence plans to respond to crises, an emergency or a war situation. Defence planning documents have been identified; the system of long-term and medium-term planning for defence capacity development is in line with the Allied Defence Planning Process. The process of preparing defence plans has been modified and simplified. However, the proposed regulation will allow for very simplified planning, while at the same time a very flexible response of the country to potential crises and threats. And today, when we talk about the European Union, there is also a view that the European Union and the Alliance will have the same objectives as planning; and also that, according to the same watts, individual capacity is judged if I can say so in human terms. The draft law redefines the content of crisis response measures, ensuring the planned, timely and organised preparedness of the country to respond to various types of crises, to the defence of the country and to the transition to war or emergency and to action in such situations. The crisis response measures on the one hand include national measures and the actions of the international organisations we are a member of; and here I am referring to the Alliance and the European Union. You have already addressed here the proposal for amendments to the Government Act as regards the area of crisis management. The project was run by the Ministry of Defence. Although the holder of this law is another ministry, the Ministry of Defence, together with the Slovenian Army, is now preparing sub-legislative rules on how to lead development forward in this area. According to strategic long-term development documents, the specific tasks of the Slovenian Armed Forces are more precisely defined, and the content is now regulated uniformly in the Defence Act. We talked about the involvement of the Slovenian Armed Forces with other organisations, with other state bodies, notably the police, civil protection, with local self-government communities and NGOs. As a good example, in 2015 a Vihra 2015 exercise was carried out where, under the leadership of Janka Vebra, we trained members of the Slovenian Armed Forces so that within 4 hours we can get 50 soldiers so-called Trained and Equipped, who are adequately trained and equipped to provide support for civilian protection, within 24 hours – 740, in 48 hours – a thousand 54 hours and over 48 hours – a thousand 600 members and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces who would provide support for civilian protection, if necessary. However, we are not changing the system of activation of the Slovenian Armed Forces, both to support civil protection and to support the police in their tasks. If we look at the main tasks of the Slovenian Armed Forces, such as: the preparation and implementation of military defence, independent cooperation with allies, implementation of international obligations undertaken by the State, contribution with military capabilities to peace and stability, and assistance in the event of natural and other disasters, these tasks do not change. However, I mentioned earlier the exceptional powers of the Slovenian Armed Forces in protecting the border state, where we have written these provisions in more detail, as has been said in the debate, and followed the Ombudsman's proposal. The law amends the provisions governing the organisation of the military. Command and unit shall be organised in accordance with the scope and structure of the Slovenian Armed Forces established by the long-term defence capacity development programme adopted by the National Assembly. This will allow for a greater possibility of adaptation than is now the case in the Defence Act, which is adopted by a two-thirds majority. The structure of the military is determined according to the purpose of the force; we are talking about fighting forces, fighting support, ensuring the operation and support of operations, depending on the ability to move, whether they are transferable, non-removable forces and forces according to the level of readiness. I listened to a debate on the link between the previous Territorial Defence, Territorial Organisation and the fear that the military would also be alienated from the territorial coverage of Slovenia or that it would lose contact with the local population where it operates. We will also take this into account, and we will look at how to make this obligation of the military even more clear, to cooperate with everyone else, in some way in this area as it has been in the past. As far as command and unit are concerned, they are organised in accordance with the scope and structure of the Slovenian Army, determined by the long-term programme, as I said. The arrangements relating to the contractual service in the reserve shall be supplemented so that the contract may be concluded irrespective of the age limit also with a member who has ceased to be employed in the permanent composition; but not for false reasons on his part. Such arrangements also make sense in order to preserve the military knowledge acquired during professional service in the military. The law incorporates extensions that allow certain activities to increase forces in peace. This enables the transfer of knowledge to a militaryly capable part of the population, following the doctrine of the military strategic reserve. In addition, an additional possibility for reintroduction of military duty in peace is being amended by law by Article 132 of the Military Duty Act, so that the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Government, may decide to reintroduce individual or all elements of military duty in peace in the event of an extreme deterioration of the security environment, with a view to ensuring a sufficient number of qualified military taxpayers to complete the Slovenian Army to the extent determined by the long-term defence capacity development programme. We have also worked together with the Desus Group, but surely the article is still open to discuss whether there is a better way to write it. As far as the system of raising military personnel is concerned, it has been changed. I think Member Dobovšek has also mentioned this. It is amended so that the increase is mainly carried out at the time of the assignment to a higher duty, so that the undersignors and officers will no longer be assigned to the duty for which the higher rank is required to receive the salary, jurisdiction and responsibility; nor would they receive the rank. The rank of Brigadier is defined as a general act, which is comparable to most of NATO's troops. And when we speak here, we do not introduce any new changes except for this change in the facts. I do not know which of the Members has explained this. And when we talk about Admiral acts, we also have a navy, so it's right that we also have this defined. One of the biggest changes has been made in the area of civil defence so far. It is redefined as a non-military part of the defence system. The government, however, will determine and guide, coordinate the operation of the military, non-military part of the defence system. However, the competent ministries will have a fundamental responsibility for the preparation of individual activities. The provisions on psychological defense have been deleted, liaison units have been abolished, and we have talked about this in the past. The debate was about the participation of the Republic of Slovenia, because we are not only talking about the cooperation of the Slovenian Armed Forces; it may be the participation of civil experts working within the Ministry, but also of civil experts working anywhere, including other ministries. It is also about the participation of Slovenian police in various international operations and missions. We have not yet had this area regulated, but we propose here, as agreed with the Strategy for the participation of the Republic of Slovenia in international operations and missions. The National Assembly sets out the basic guidelines for the organisation and implementation of defence and declares the state of emergency on a proposal from the Government and also declares the state of war on a proposal from the Government. And it decides to send the Slovenian Army to an international operation or mission if it is not a matter of implementing the obligations assumed by international organisations, because in this case the National Assembly has already concluded that it has ratified an international treaty. The operation of an international operation or mission is based on the rules and principles of international war or humanitarian law. We are now making a new decision that if we were to decide to deploy the Slovenian Army in international operations and on missions that would not be based on an appropriate UN mandate or an international treaty, this is also decided by the National Assembly. It is true, however, that we have not thought here of giving a more difficult quorum than the common majority. We will certainly be pleased to hear the argument further, but this is certainly a debate to be held. We, too, may be more rigorous in some stages than some other ministries, and the debate should be made with the Ministry of the Interior, Foreign Affairs, Justice and Defence. It has been said that we have abolished the Institute of served military service as one of the fundamental conditions for employment in the Slovenian Army. A comment was made by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group on dual citizenship; we will look at it, but with such arrangements as we propose, we are approaching arrangements in most comparable European countries; but we can certainly discuss this further. There were dilemmas, whether or not to have a union movement, union maintenance in the defence area. The law defines them, but of course their work in the Slovenian Army is limited, which is also consistent with international acts. And as I've already said, for a newly-armed civilian military cooperation. I believe that we have responded to this cooperation in international operations and missions. The President's comment was about the lack of education. We may be speaking the wrong terminology, but in the Slovenian Army we currently have 752 soldiers who have the fourth level of education and perform exactly the same works as those who have the fifth level of education. And they're also training, so they're all educated together. For these we propose to equalize; with this restriction that they cannot progress as well as those with the fifth level of education. We can also upgrade this institution; I believe that the Court's decisions have already been in this direction, that equal pay is also necessary for equal work. There have been comments on the assessment of the readiness of the Slovenian Army, which we have debated here many times. I told you how the Slovenian Army is assessed, and I said that in all these years the Slovenian Army has carried out all the tasks entrusted to it. It is true, however, that the lack of financial resources has led to the stagnation of modernisation, the stagnation of certain developments; and therefore, if one of the areas is unmarked or evaluated by valuation 1, the whole area is not considered to be one of the averages. There was a question as to whether the formation regulation governing the formational duties in the Slovenian Army has such a long title, we cannot reconcile it with the unions. And also, whether we have union support or not, we don't have union support in both laws. I have had a series of interviews on this; above all, it is the Secretary of State who is also in charge of all trade union dialogues. On the one hand, we have the limits given to us by the Government, the Ministry of Public Administration; on the other hand, the expectations of trade unions; and our first proposal for this regulation has been different. The government then decided on the basis of an agreement as decided by the trade unions to regulate this content in the framework of the negotiations to eliminate the anomalies. And on the basis of what was agreed there, we have been given a mandate by the Government, which we can also write in the regulation setting up the formation places. It is true that an anomaly is now being exposed, as Mr Kopmajer has presented, but the difference is that they can then progress in several classes and then progress is halted in some. But I'm sure we had a choice whether to take this or not. With respect to the number of officers, officers, not everyone is in charge. We have all the officers in the helicopter squadron, but we wouldn't say they're all in charge, so it's hard to talk about, given the structure of the army, that we have too many or too few specific actions. I said we're not changing the system, except for the brigade, that it's a general act. Mr Škoberne asked about training and education. Of course we in the Slovenian Army, at the Ministry of Defence, pay very much attention to this. I was already two years ago, a year ago – time is passing quickly – orders and we have already carried out a number of reports, coordination with other ministries as well, how to regulate the military education system that we have at the Maribor Military School Centre in order to get as close as possible to obtaining an education in the civil system. We only have education, skills training at the Military Schools Center. This is also not recognised in a regular study. However, we need, as was truly said by one Member, as much technical expertise as possible, a very wide range of different profiles is needed in the Slovenian Army. In our Centre, however, we provide additional training, mainly for career progress or by actions upwards. It is true, however, that we have not encountered here a sufficiently flexible response from universities to bring together this training in order to obtain as little funds as possible as quickly as possible and as well as a well-trained Slovenian Army member who could start carrying out his tasks immediately. But the project is under way, and we can also introduce it to the Defence Committee once. Mr Dolinšek asked a question about labour law. Yeah, we've done a series of coordinations within the coalition, I think we've sat twice, three times. The only obvious point then was why we also have provisions in the Defence Act relating to labour legislation. At that time, we added some to the Service Act in the Slovenian Army. The answer of our colleagues who are preparing this area is that we at the Ministry of Defence also have an administrative part of the Ministry, which also performs defence tasks, that we have the Intelligence Security Service and that we cannot regulate their work cases in the Service Act in the Slovenian Army; but that they remain in the Defence Act. It will certainly be best for experts who get to know each other well in the field of work to sit down and see where we can find a common way here also for advance. With regard to the contribution of the Republic of Slovenia to NATO or the European Union, I believe that there was a comment on the objectives of capacity. I have already said many times that I have given guidance to the Slovenian Army in this regard, that national defence, the defence of the Republic of Slovenia, is paramount; and we can offer this capacity to the allies to some extent, perhaps within the framework of the NATO Alliance or in permanent structural cooperation within the framework of the European Union, when it is so far away. In doing so, they must pursue, even in what way the military can carry out its tasks in peace, as regards support for other authorities, particularly support for civil protection, the police and so on. With regard to cyber defence, the Government has adopted a development strategy, a strategy of the Republic of Slovenia for cyber security and has extended the powers or tasks of the Office for the Protection of Secret Data there. You probably know that the directorship at this office was taken over by the former Chief of General Staff of the Slovenian Army. We have also given him a part of his associates for a certain period of time to help develop these activities. However, the law further defines the Ministry's competence in this area as regards the defence system. With regard to matters of NATO, the European Union, whether Slovenia is alone; in particular, on the left hand side. I have already told the committee and have answered many times that it might be good to read the magnetograms if we are not present until the end of the meeting that Slovenia is not alone. And I hope that we will never be directly threatened by our neighbours; but that we cannot only watch Slovenia and neighbouring countries, that we must watch the European Union, that we must look at the wider region, that we must actually see the whole world. With the emergence of modern threats, whether terrorism or other problems arising from the fact that certain people in their area cannot live, I believe that Slovenia must be responsible in this too. And this isn't about military action. Slovenia has always participated in international operations and missions in such a way as to strengthen the establishment of a country, their security forces, so that they can also allow their people to stay normally, either in the Middle East or in Africa, to be able to stay there and that migrants will not come to Europe so much as to us. However, it is certainly necessary to provide assistance to those who fulfil refugee status. Once again, the only thing I can say is that people's welfare depends on what kind of safe country we live in. And if we want to have some economic success, then we need to draw on these funds for the development of all other areas – culture, sport, education – of course we have to contribute. Slovenia is part of the international world. The relationship of the company to the Slovenian Army, patriotism; as it was exposed. I agree with myself that we need to change our relationship in particular. I was shocked to learn that the director could decide that a member of the Slovenian Army should not enter the school in uniform. I think this is wrong, but it certainly is a reflection — and I agree here — that it is necessary to change. I said that we had a public debate in such a way that we had structuredly invited the professional public, representatives of veteran organisations, the entire wide public interested in Igu, where we presented both laws and expected even more comments, but it is never too late. Our goal is to further improve the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u135	The replica has Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u136	Thank you for your word, chairman. Madam Minister, tell me, are we setting up a country in Latvia? The question is not rhetorical. If you say we are defending our homeland at the external borders of the European Union, because the security situation is so unstable, please tell me how our soldiers defend the Republic of Slovenia and the prosperity of the Slovenes in the way that they are parked at the external borders of the Russian Federation. And even if we look at this unstable security situation right in the ring of fire around the European Union. What happened in Libya? The United Kingdom happened, France, partly Italy, including the United States. What happened in the Middle East? There have been other members of NATO, supposedly our allies, who have destabilised this situation. And there was an effective coup in Ukraine, followed by Germans and also by the Americans directly. If we look at our wider neighbourhood, which is appealed to by the Minister, we see very quickly that NATO is a source of problems and not part of the solution. And more armies send Slovenia to put out American interest fires around us, more to contribute to global unrest and danger.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u137	Well, now it was the second time it wasn't a replica. I didn't react for the first time because you mentioned me in the wrong context. You know very well that the Minister can't answer, you've abused the replica, so you deserve a reminder. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 21st item of the agenda. Procedurally, Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u138	Thank you. I must admit I have no rules of procedure on my part, so I will ask a procedural question. Since it is still available for some time, is it not possible to share this time?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u139	It's been three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u140	Three minutes. Can you three minutes later?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u141	Less than a minute on the speaker, I think three minutes was exactly when we spoke. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] We still have four hours of debate, we can just end this and go to the next one. Today we will vote on this motion for a decision in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 21st item of the agenda. Now I'm breaking this agenda. We're moving to 21. At the end of the day, it's a proposal for a service law in the Slovenian army in the first defense. The draft law was tabled by the Government. With regard to this bill, a group of 19 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. To complement the explanation of the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Defence Andreja Katič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u142	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! The Service Act in the Slovenian Army was adopted in 2007. In particular, the basic objectives of the proposal are to regulate the conduct of military service and fundamental relations in its implementation, as well as the specific rights, obligations and responsibilities of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, to regulate the specifics of a legal nature arising from the specificity and responsibilities of the military service for which experience has shown that they have not been properly regulated; and to regulate the legal basis for the effective functioning of the professional army with a contractual reserve and to stop the reduction of the staff composition. I'd point out the most important starting points. The Slovenian military remains part of the public sector and individual labour issues and salaries must be addressed in full compliance with the specific requirements of military service in or outside the country. In spite of the contract of employment, a member may not cease to work in the military at any time according to the specific requirements and responsibilities of the military service. The arrangements for the conclusion of employment contracts are special in relation to the remaining employees in Slovenia; the military is a strict, hierarchical pyramid organization, one of the conditions for its operation is the constant corresponding inflow or outflow of personnel. The current arrangements for the conclusion of contracts are maintained for an indefinite period of time, and soldiers can only conclude contracts for a certain period of time, which may be extended; but not longer than 45 years of age. That is why we propose to upgrade existing co-ordinated rights. We are thus trying to compensate for the consequences that the system has on the social situation of the members and at the same time ensure them adequate social security after the end of their career in the Slovenian Army and the transition to employment in the civil environment. A soldier can first advance into the military career system and move on to a subordinate, allowing him to obtain a contract for an indefinite period of time. Second, after an additional 45 years, the soldier has the right to an appropriate post at the Ministry or another state authority for an indefinite period of time. Thirdly, if it decides not to accept the job offered, it shall have the right to retrain for another profession for a further three years; and the right to retirement, which is higher than in other areas. Fourthly, the law also provides for incentives for employers who employ soldiers in the form of repayment of contributions to the employer for five years of employment. As a fifth, a member may agree to receive, in addition to the retirement, a one-time cash amount in the amount of the employer’s contributions and contributions of the worker for a period of five years, which shall be charged from his salary in the last year. In this way, we provide social security on the one hand; on the other hand, we follow the objective that the age of the military does not increase, which has also been exposed as a problem through the strategic review of defence. We also propose an overview of the level of education for the worst-paid soldiers, in which a soldier with secondary vocational education can be redistributed and raised only within the status of a soldier, that is to say the Corporal. We have 752 soldiers with secondary vocational education. The second measure, namely the upgrading of the current Institute of the Special Monetary Award, to which members are entitled at the time of the conclusion or extension of the fixed-term employment contract, is the payment of six average salaries in the Republic of Slovenia for five-year contracts and twelve for ten-year contracts. A difference shall be paid to members who have already entered into contracts for a certain period of time on the date of the entry into force of the law. The method of payment will be determined by a government regulation so that, in addition to the initial award at the conclusion of the contract, a member will receive one award after each year of the contract. This will also try to stimulate the retention of personnel in the Slovenian Army. However, the payment of the special prize is linked to a period when the staffing completion of the permanent composition will not reach the level of human resources completion set out in the long-term defence capacity development programme. According to our assessment, the proposed solution will have around €5.9 million in financial implications. Working hours, the specific working conditions in which members work, the right to a day off or weekly rest shall be regulated. One of the fundamental rights and duties of members is participation and the right to training and education. The provisions of the bill also regulate the care of members and the rights of family members at the time of death or disability of a member. I will explain all these rights in more detail below. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the Proposal for a Service Law in the Slovenian Army brings important new solutions aimed at making the Slovenian Army more effective. Above all, it offers a better evaluation of the specificities of the military profession and thus its greater incentive, and I propose that you support this proposal. Of course, I am aware that there is also a need to ensure stable financing and system updating and to continuously improve the organisation and functioning of the Slovenian Army, which we are also doing together. I thank you for your support; there is also the fruit of long-term cross-cutting coordination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u143	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Left Messenger Group, in her name Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u144	Thank you for your word, chairman. According to government assurances, the aim of the law is to improve the social position of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces. And what we can expect from this hearing today is that whoever criticises this law will be charged with opposed to improving the social situation of soldiers and their families. Let me immediately say that in Levica we do not object to the fact that soldiers have better wages, far from that; rather, I would say quite the opposite. But we would go to a salary increase in a way that would be fairer to other public servants, especially those who already have worse salaries than soldiers. We know why the government has not openly proposed higher wage classes for soldiers, but has decided on new supplements and awards. It was a blind maneuver not to provoke other unions. But I don't think this scheming maneuver is gonna work. People can count. If a military person receives 720 euros in allowances and a thousand 600 euros a year, that means raising the military's base salary by 18%. And clearly, for example, teachers, nurses, police officers, and especially those professions that are already in the minority, will ask why it is for the military, but it is not for us. And that is an essential question, and here in Levica we disagree with the government. The real purpose of this law is not to improve the salaries of soldiers, because if it were military salaries, it would only raise the salaries of soldiers, not introduce 720 euros of an annual allowance for all military personnel, including the Chief of Staff, who has a salary similar to that of us Members, if I am not mistaken. If the government were going to solve social problems, then the annual prize of thousands of Euro600 would not be allocated to the rank of a major with solid salaries; it would be only to soldiers. If the government really wanted to eliminate the social hardships of public officials, including soldiers within it, it would have gone to raising all the lowest wages and hiring cleaners, security guards and others working for the public sector, including the military; through external contractors who are extremely exploited. In this way, we are witnessing that the practice of outsourcing is being dispersed in the public sector in our country. The government is not a standard of soldiers. I'd like to increase the number of soldiers. And that's why he's always trying to convince citizens that we don't have a professional army and that this is the biggest problem in our country. And our health system is cracking through the seams. We're running out of footage to take care of the elders. We have scientists running abroad. But no, I'm guessing that's not a problem elsewhere than on a rhetorical level. The problem that we need to address with priority in practice is the lack of soldiers to be sent to foreign missions for common American interests. And that's the propaganda we don't fall for in Levica. Slovenia is not militarily threatened. We have friendly relations with all neighbouring countries, and we have no serious disagreements with any country in the world. Less, when we get involved in military operations abroad, the threat of terrorism will be smaller. And if the army's purpose is to defend the country, then, truth be told, we don't need more soldiers in due course. And that's good, because we can channel money and footage into those sectors that we actually need bloodyly. Health, social protection, science, development – everyone needs to devote our social resources. And since we are not militarily threatened and we are in a serious social and development crisis, the only rational decision would be to freeze military spending. It is important that skills are maintained in the military, not that at all costs are hunted down by some employees’ planning numbers. Even the military doctrine admits that the army is too small to defend the country, our own doctrine. The doctrine of the strategic reserve provides that, in the event of an increased military threat, up to 25 000 citizens will be trained for military defence within one year. And since we are not militarily threatened and at the same time there is no interest in military employment, it makes sense to rationalise the permanent composition. We propose to maintain funds at the 2015 level in order to reduce expenditure on protocol and military operations abroad. And since there are now significantly fewer soldiers than there were in 2015, it is within the same resources that we can provide better wages and working conditions for those who have remained in the military or would remain in the military in the long term. The Slovenian Army magazine last published a projection to spontaneously reduce its permanent composition to 5,000,600 by 2020. If this cadre, instead of on various NATO operations in various Latvians, is well placed at home, it will be more than enough to preserve military knowledge and that the Slovenian Army participates in the protection and resolution where we really need it. 1.2 billion euros that the government wants to spend on new patriots and for other NATO objectives, we prefer to shift to other areas. As far as the social situation of the soldiers is concerned, I repeat to the conclusion once again. It is not fair to regulate the social situation of soldiers beyond the situation of other workers in the public sector who have already been paid equally poorly or even worse. And it is not fair that officers with high wages will receive the same supplements as ordinary soldiers who are at the bottom of the salary scale. Since the military budget of EUR 344 million in 2015 is expected to increase to EUR 464 million in 2019, the money to improve salaries is more than enough for the whole public sector; especially for those who have the lowest salaries, which is certainly not the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u145	The text shall be given by the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, Mr Marjan Dolinšek, on its behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u146	Thank you, President. Once again a nice greeting for everyone; a respected minister, secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a service law in the Slovenian Army, which we are considering, is part of the umbrella defence legislation and is substantively linked to the proposal for a new defence law, which we have already expressed our principled support in the Group of the Modern Centre Party. At the time of our term of office, we committed ourselves to one of our security measures being a precise definition and consistent implementation of the career path of all those employed in the national security system. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we are aware that well-trained, equipped and motivated employees are the main part of a well-functioning national security system. Since the beginning of the financial crisis in 2008, and in response to the measures taken to get out of it, this system has been the most deprived of funds. As a result of the austerity measures, it has not been possible in practice to implement all the solutions included in the Service Act 2007 in the Slovenian Army. Unfortunately, financial malnutrition also had a negative impact on the working conditions and personal benefits of defence workers. During the current term of office, the government of Dr. Mir Cerar managed to stop the long-standing trend of sudden decline in defence funds. Nominal increases have been made in defence and security measures in general. Although it seems to someone that the lack of funds is being replaced too slowly, I would like to recall that the government, when considering the conclusions of the Strategic Review of Defence at the end of December 2016, ordered the Ministry of Finance to take into account the potential for a gradual nominal growth of the defence budget for 20-30 million euros in the next medium-term period. Moreover, by amending this Decision, the Government decided on 11 May 2017 to increase the funding by EUR 24.3 million and then by at least EUR 30 million each year over the period 2018-2025. These government commitments have enabled the adoption of the Medium-term Defence Programme of the Republic of Slovenia 2016-2020 to be complemented twice by more ambitious objectives. The area of defence is already highlighted in the budget documents for 2018 and 2019. The financial plan adopted by the Ministry of Defence for 2018 amounts to €389 million; the proposal for amendments to the financial plan for 2018 is higher than €46 million and amounts to €435 million. For 2019, the proposed financial plan of the Ministry of Defence is slightly less than €464 million, which is more than a proposal to amend the financial plan for 2018 for a good EUR 28 million. In view of the changed economic situation and the available resources, it is also possible to think about more radical and far-reaching reforms and the fulfilment of solutions under existing defence legislation. Employees in the Slovenian Army are public servants, but the conditions of their work are linked to the needs of the State and to such specific circumstances that they are not comparable to other professions that they must be further regulated in a specific law in addition to the applicable provisions for all public sector employees. While legislation is always adopted at a specific time and the vision for the further development of an area is constantly being shaped under the influence of the current situation, when adopting such important legislation as the Service Act in the Slovenian Army, in our opinion it would be wrong only to respond to the current situation, among which the unsuspecting human resources trends in the Slovenian Army are taking place. We probably all agree that roof legislation cannot, nor is it appropriate, be amended, in view of each fluctuation of personnel. Instead, as we have pointed out at the beginning of the mandate, it is much more important to regulate the career path of employees in the Slovenian Army and to provide for members and members under the conditions of professional retirement. In the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre, we monitored the process of creating new defence legislation and gave our unequivocal support to improving the position of employees in the Slovenian Army, in particular Slovenian soldiers and soldiers, although in the Republic of Slovenia there is already an unfavourable relationship between the share of defence expenditure on employees' salaries relative to the share that the Republic of Slovenia is committed to investment. At the stage of the national assembly hearing, there is still a possibility that the individual provisions of the bill will be improved and that the Ministry of Defence in the dialogue with trade unions in the defence field will also receive their support. Even in the light of the fact that solutions have been introduced before the adoption by the government of the draft law to encourage the conclusion of longer-term employment contracts; however, they do not affect the single payment system in the public sector, we will support in our parliamentary group the conclusion that the proposal for a service law in the Slovenian Army is also appropriate for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u147	The Member Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Franz Breznik, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u148	Dear President, Honourable Minister, Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! In front of us is the second part of this twin – the Law on Service in the Slovenian Army. The objectives and principles of the bill are, in particular, to regulate the conduct of military service, fundamental relations in its implementation and the specific rights, obligations and responsibilities of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces during the course of their military service; to regulate the specificity of the legal character for which experience in the completion and operation of the professional army has shown that they are not properly regulated; to increase their interest in working in the Slovenian Army; and to strive for a more effective operation of the professional army with a contractual reserve. The Slovenian military is part of the public sector, with individual labour issues and salaries being dealt with for its members in full compliance with the specific requirements of military service. The professional and contractual conduct of military service is also regulated by law in particular by the manner in which civil duties are exercised towards the defence of the State provided for by the Constitution. As the main solutions to the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party: at least secondary vocational education is required for soldiers. This is a cross-examination of the level of education, where the soldier can be redistributed and raised only within the status of the soldier, that is to say, the rank of the commanding officer. If he does not have a secondary or secondary vocational education, he cannot be transferred to the post of Deputy. The Slovenian Army operates through a code of military ethics, and special monetary awards are set for soldiers to operate in the permanent composition of the Slovenian Army. One of the rights after the end of a career in the military is the possibility of employment within the public sector and the law also allows the right to be trained for another profession and the right to retirement. Members of the Slovenian Army will be able to decide whether they will retire professionally or continue to work until the age pension is fulfilled. The Ministry of Defence may grant candidates for professional work in the military or in the contractual reserve. The law provides for the certification of educational programmes and professional standards for military education, the identification of specific military competences and the verification and certification of national professional qualifications in the military field. The law also provides solutions in the field of care for members, which is characteristic of all modern military organisations. The care of members and partly family members includes health care, social care, psychological assistance, legal advice and assistance, the right to work, recreational activities, the provision of leisure time and the regulation of leaving the military service. The law also regulates working hours and special working conditions in which members of the Slovenian Armed Forces operate. Effective working hours, rest periods and justified absence from work shall be considered as working hours in accordance with the rules. The full time in the military shall not exceed 40 hours and not exceed 36 hours per week. The beginning and end of working hours according to service needs are determined under this law by the Chief of Staff, as it is now. It also regulates the rights of family members at the time of death, the disability of a member, i.e. it includes the right to reimbursement of funeral expenses and one-off cash assistance; spouses and children of a deceased member are allowed to continue to use the service apartment. There is no need for the consent of the members of these units to determine and pay for the increased workload and burden of units. The height is determined by the government. Wages, benefits and other benefits during the course of military service outside the country shall be regulated by a special government regulation. The financial consequences of the law, that is to say, are to overlook education, which will amount to about EUR 534 000 per year, we are speaking mainly of Private II, that is, that soldier who, at the time of his three-year vocational education, has been able to advance after the new novel until the Grand Dupret. Then the change in the payment of special awards at the time of the conclusion and extension of employment contracts in the Slovenian Army for a certain period of time, i.e. for the 20th Article, would have a financial impact of around EUR 5.9 million at the annual level. Funding for the implementation of the 6 million €434 000 law will be provided in the 2018 state budget in the Ministry of Defence’s financial plan for the preparation of the 2018 budget changes. We will not oppose the first reading of the Service Act in the Slovenian Democratic Party, but we will draw up some amendments. Part of these amendments, or part of the solution or part of some of the reservations that we have in the Slovenian Democratic Party in the first reading, will then be presented separately. And in the second reading, we're going to try to make some amendments. The Slovenian Democratic Party will not object to the proposal for a law on service in the Slovenian Army in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u149	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Benedict Kopmajer, on her behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u150	Your Honor! The draft law before us governs the conduct of military service, fundamental relations in the conduct of military service, special rights, obligations and responsibilities of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces during the conduct of military service. In the Desus Group, we agree that it is crucial to increase interest in employment in the Slovenian Army and to ensure programmed retention of personnel and to stop the reduction of the Slovenian Army's staff composition. With the financial crisis and the resulting savings in the defence sector, the positive effects of the remuneration and acquisition of personnel after 2010 have virtually been eliminated. The number of members of the permanent composition of the Slovenian Armed Forces began to decrease and it was no longer possible to ensure the planned extent of completion of the permanent composition. The reasons for this can be found mainly in low salaries, the complexity of the military profession, the difficult criteria for employment and the conclusion of fixed-term employment contracts. All of this puts the Slovenian Army in an uncompetitive position as an employer. Therefore, in the Desus Group, we agree with the proposal to upgrade the Institute of the Special Monetary Award, to which members are entitled at the time of the conclusion or extension of the fixed-term employment contract. Certain rights of care for members will also be granted to retired members, and provision of supply capacity such as shelters is also possible. A member of a permanent staff who will be recognised for disability due to the consequences of injury at work or occupational disease will be assigned to another post at the Ministry or other state authority and will be able to retain the salary he had before deployment. In the Desus Group we are well aware of all the specificities and responsibilities of serving in the Slovenian Army. We therefore support the social component of the proposed law, such as the provision of social protection in the form of advice and assistance to members in solving the problems they face with regard to work in the working environment and the end of their working relationship. We also support solutions that will enable the exercise of rights from health, pension and disability insurance and child and family protection, as well as assistance in moving. As stated in the Desus Group, we believe that the draft law fully regulates the military service for professional members in order to help increase interest in employment in the Slovenian Army, thus ensuring a programmed retention and halting the reduction of the Slovenian Army's workforce. We therefore agree that the proposal for a law goes into further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u151	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matjaž German, on her behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u152	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Hello again, Madam Minister, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! We are followed by an interesting debate on the draft law on defence, and there is now a debate on the proposal for a law on service in the Slovenian Army. In my view, as I have already said in my debate, both laws are the legal basis for actually placing the Slovenian Army in the 21st century in the area of marriage. This law, which we are talking about now, has already been passed in 2007 with the aim of regulating certain issues related to military service for professional members and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, which have not yet been regulated in the Defence Act, in accordance with the Civil Service Act. The Slovenian army is facing the fact that the number of members, as my colleague has said before me, is decreasing from year to year. Ten years ago, there were 7,000 62 members, and between 2009 and 2013, the number of members ranged between 7 thousand 300 and 7 thousand 500 in 2016, and the focus was on this year and the number dropped below 7,000. The human resources manko appears mainly in a group of soldiers. Despite several measures, the number of departures from the military exceeds that of 100 employees per year. The reasons for this situation are mainly low wages, the complexity of the military profession, the demanding criteria for employment and the conclusion of fixed-term employment contracts. At the Ministry, it is estimated that a negative trend in employment in the Slovenian Army could also be halted by providing comparable jobs within professional groups of soldiers, police and judicial officers. During the years of implementation of the Service Act in the Slovenian Army, problems related to the regulation and allocation of working time have emerged. Members of the Slovenian Armed Forces in international operations and missions faced the problem of taking days off and using weekly rest. Ambiguities on this issue were mainly resolved through the filing of complaints and, consequently, judicial practice. The basic objective of the bill is to answer the open questions and concerns of the Slovenian Armed Forces and the defence system, for the first time, the arrangements for the conduct of military service and the fundamental relationship in its implementation and the specific rights, obligations and responsibilities of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces during the course of this service. Secondly, the regulation of the specific character of the labour force, based on the specificity and responsibilities of the military service, for which experience has so far shown in the completion and operation of the professional army that they are not properly regulated. And thirdly, the regulation of the legal basis for the effective operation of the professional army with the contractual reserve and its staffing completion. Fourthly, increase interest in employment in the Slovenian Army and ensure programmed retention of personnel and stop the reduction of the Slovenian Army staff. Co-existence in the adoption of the Defence Act and the Service Act in the Slovenian Army is also necessary in order to achieve more transparent regulatory arrangements for the defence area. In order to achieve those objectives, it is necessary to provide financial resources. And, as I have already mentioned in my previous position, it is necessary to have predictable financial resources, and that is exactly what I would like the government to pay more attention to. The estimated value of the adoption of this law is EUR 6.4 million per year and relates in particular to the solutions in Articles 19 and 20 of the proposed law. These funds are intended for middle-level soldiers and relate to the transparency of education and the payment of special awards at the time of the conclusion and extension of the contract of employment in the Slovenian Army for a certain period of time. The reduction in funding during the period of savings on the posts of the competent defence department has, of course, left an impact on the development and modernisation of defence work and on the replenishment of the Slovenian army with the personnel and development of these. If this trend is to stop and follow the objectives adopted in the strategic and other documents and follow the objectives set out in the Proposal for a Service Law in the Slovenian Army, the proposal for a law during the constructive debate in the legislative process should be supported. We will support the conclusion that the Proposal for a Service Law in the Slovenian Army is suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u153	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, in its name Mag, has the word. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u154	Dear Members and Members, good afternoon! The law we are considering today lays down the conditions for the work of Slovenian soldiers. That these conditions are not envious, the number of departures from the Slovenian Army speaks in particular. From 2011 to today, the Slovenian Army left 647 members. I think this is the most eloquent information that clearly states that the working conditions in the Slovenian Army are not at an envious level. Then who decides to serve in the Slovenian Army? I would sort of divide people into three different categories. The first are definitely patriots, the second are adventurers and the third are those looking for social security in the Slovenian Army. As far as patriots are concerned, there are fewer of them every day. And the fact that there are fewer of them every day is also a major contribution from politics. I'm sorry. As for adventurers who went to the Slovenian Army because of the specific nature of the work, because of special techniques and because of the service on various missions, we can also offer this less and less. The technique used by the Slovenian Army is older, worse every year and, according to my assessment, also inappropriate in many areas. Then we reach those who seek social security in the Slovenian Army in particular. At a time when economic growth is slightly more intense, employment in the Slovenian Army seems even less interesting. And that's why our army has a problem filling even those cities that it already has at its disposal to be occupied and to hire people. If we compare our army to foreign armies, then we can rightly determine that our soldiers are poor, I'm afraid. If you compare standards with Americans, for example, when you have a pension after twenty years of service, when the military provides you with a stay when it provides you with your children's education; then we see that the standards of the various armies within NATO are very different. What is the key to this marriage? This law is still based on the fact that soldiers are public servants. This law does not take soldiers outside the current system of public servants. Even under this law, soldiers will still be part of the public sector. This law still does not eliminate uncertainty after 45 years. There is still a clear limit in the law that when a soldier is 45 years old, he no longer has a place in this army, although he can be psychophysically excellent and have special knowledge. However, this law does bring certain respect for the special circumstances of this service, and it also brings modest, of course, advantages compared with other armies. What exactly happens after 45? Under this law, a soldier is offered employment in the rest of the public sector, he is allowed to be trained if he so wishes, or he is granted a pension and is paid contributions if he employs himself for another five years. It must be acknowledged that after 45 years some social security is guaranteed; we in Novi Slovenija would like to add one more to these things that are already proposed in the law, namely that employment is allowed even after 45 years for ordinary soldiers if they meet envious psychophysical standards and if they have particularly valuable knowledge that is important for the functioning of the Slovenian Army. What do relatives get in case, God forbid, if a member dies or is killed in the course of his duties? Thank God, Slovenia is one of the rare members of NATO, who has not yet suffered death on various missions around the world. Thank God that's true; and we all want to keep it that way in the future, of course. However, if we look at what the law brings in if such a tragic event happens - the family will receive the Ministry of Defence to pay for the funeral, the family will receive his salary one year after the death of a member, the children will receive a scholarship by the age of 27, the children will receive a free meal during school and the study will receive free food, and if they meet certain standards, they will have priority in public administration employment. Okay, we give something to our family, but in New Slovenia we estimate that in such exceptional and severe circumstances it is still too small; so we suggest that for such cases, when a soldier loses his life in the performance of his duties, his family or wife, partner, partner and his children up to the age of 18, the youngest child will be provided with his salary. One year seems too short a period. If a soldier has a family, such a death means great uncertainty. At least until the age of full age, this family should receive the salary of this deceased soldier in order to provide them with as wide a social security as possible. I know that those who say that this will cause no financial consequences will immediately come forward. I hope that these cases will be as few as possible; however, if such cases are to take place, this country must, out of respect for the tasks performed by this soldier, truly open its purse and its family to ensure as wide as possible social security. If I move on to apartments and provide or solve a housing problem in the Slovenian Army. Under this law, members of the military have the right to rent non-profit and after three years to buy the apartment they live in. We in Novi Slovenija would add to these rights that in the fund of dwellings, which may be of little interest to the general public – and the Ministry of Defence has a wide range of such apartments – that members of the Slovenian Army in such types, let's say, economically uninterested apartments offer not only non-profit rent, but even free stay. If I move forward, as far as the status of former members of the Slovenian Army is concerned, those who retire. I must admit that in some parts the law here is unclear because it says that the ministry will provide assistance in regulating or integrating into the home of older citizens. Although I can't imagine exactly what offering this aid means, whether writing administrative requests or paying the cost of this home. I think these things should be more clearly defined. And another thing that is particularly popular in foreign armies. I think we could offer the former members another rating in order to have the possibility of using free public transport in their retirement. In short, times are not pink and if we want the Slovenian Army to be again perfected, to involve motivated people, people with high morals, ethical standards, then it is clear that this army must be made interesting and attractive. And the danger that individuals face needs to be compensated with slightly greater financial benefits. And once again, as with the previous law, the Defence Act, the implementation of this law depends significantly on the resources available. It seems interesting to me that, after my previous announcement to support the Defence Act, provided that the defence budget would increase to 1.1% of GDP, it ended somehow, that my phone started ringing and they started asking me if we were serious about these things. And my answer is, of course, very serious; because otherwise, there are only words and there are no concrete actions. Unfortunately, we live in a world where financial resources must also be provided for normal operation. If there are no funds, then everything remains a dead letter on paper. And we demand a very real thing, that's a tenth of a percent of GDP, which really shouldn't be an excessive effort in the current economic situation. And one more thing needs to be stressed in this debate on the Service Act in the Slovenian Army. I was even surprised by the implementation of the President of the National Assembly, who may have said somewhat superficially that we owe Nate that 2% of GDP. We are not obliged to give Nate anything because if we were to give, we would most likely have experienced some sanctions when we failed to fulfill our duties. President of the National Assembly, we are obliged to give this money to our people, our own armed forces, our own Slovenian army. That money goes to them, and we dedicate it to them. The New Slovenia Group will support the proposal for a law on service in the Slovenian Army because it nevertheless represents a move forward.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u155	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. The word has magic. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u156	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear colleagues, distinguished minister! We have heard much today after more than five hours of debate on the Defence Act and now the Service Act in the Slovenian Army. The undeniable fact is that in the Slovenian Army they face problems related to the staffing, regulation and deployment of working time, especially those of soldiers on missions. Today we have a proposal for a law that actually partially solves this problem. There have also been many lawsuits by members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, so these improvements are urgently needed. Although we adopted the Service Act in the Slovenian Army in 2007, it had a number of positive effects in the initial phase on the acquisition, award and retention of personnel; however, with the advent of the financial crisis and as a result of financial constraints, there has been a decline in this employment. In the last five years, the number of members has decreased by as many as 647 soldiers. There can be more than one cause. We have already heard one, these are low wages, soldiers are part of the public servants' system, their gross salaries in the military profession are around 1,000 euros and even less, which means that the net salary is around 700 euros. I think it's a very low salary. Then also the difficulty of a military profession not to mention the difficult criteria for employment. Great psychophysical ability, as well as the health criteria that these young boys who decide on this profession have to meet. Young people are deterred from entering into contracts for a certain period of time, so a fixed-term contract is concluded for soldiers up to the age of 45. These young boys are among the most active in their 20 ’ s and 45 ’ s. After 45 years, however, they are plunged into some kind of stalemate to ensure social security. This bill provides positive measures in the field of this retention of personnel, but I must say that there is a potential reason for the reduction of personnel or the reduction of interest in our demographic image. We are becoming an increasingly ageing society, we have fewer births, and the result is that fewer people are simply deciding that we have fewer people at our disposal to decide on this profession. For all of this, it is so important that the situation of soldiers changes after the good ten years of this existing law as well as more appropriate regulations. While the proposal continues to maintain employment for a certain period of time, the proposal builds on the following rights, which seek to provide these soldiers with social security after 45 years of age, by means of measures to conclude a fixed-term contract. With the following measures, the soldier can advance in the career system and also move into the name of a deputy, allowing him to work indefinitely. The soldier also has the right to transfer after 45 years to another post at the Ministry or another body. It is certainly very important that such skilled soldiers are kept in the system of this military regime, because these people are armed, know the system, know how to shoot. It is certainly important that we maintain them so that we do not leave them out of the system, for they can help us in the security of our country. It shall also be possible if the individual does not decide to accept the second job offered to qualify for another profession; and for the next three years, he has the right to leave. Stimulation is also envisaged for that employer who will hire a soldier if such a soldier cannot be provided a job in the state administration, in the form of a five-year refund on the employer's contributions. So here's the appeal in case the law is passed, including employers who would hire someone to think about it. The soldier may also agree with the Ministry after the termination of the contract to receive, in addition to the retirement, a one-time cash amount in the amount of the employer’s contributions and contributions of the worker for a period of five years, which shall be charged upon payment of the last salary in the last year. I believe that these are steps forward that ensure the higher social security of these soldiers who decide on this profession. It is certainly one of the key objectives of the law to increase the interest of young people in the Slovenian Army and to ensure the retention of staff and to reduce and stop the reduction of the Slovenian Army's staffing excellence. I hope this law goes in the right direction and that this profession will be decided by more and more boys. It is also important to welcome the measure of upgrading the Institute of the Special Monetary Award, to which members will be entitled at the time of the conclusion or extension of the fixed-term employment contract, namely six average salaries in the Republic of Slovenia for five-year contracts and twelve average wages for ten-year contracts. Of course, the Ministry will draw up a regulations or regulations to determine how payment is to be made here. Care for members of the Slovenian Armed Forces and partly their family members are also integral parts of this bill proposal that we have; health care and psychosocial assistance, as soldiers on missions face very unpleasant situations and, when they return to their home environment, experience trauma; therefore, they need to be helped. The law also provides for social security, social protection, legal aid, as well as employment housing are defined in it. However, I must say in this work that I have quite a few concerns about the possibility of buying a work apartment. I have to say, we don't have any office apartments, I don't know how many, or we do, and an employed soldier gets it in order to keep the apartment as close to his job as possible. If we decide on such a measure, it seems to me that we are putting other public servants in a different position, and I also believe that we will somehow lose those apartments that we have near the employer. If we were to go into this system, we would have to buy another one in order to re-examine them as new members coming into the army to provide them with conditions of residence. But there's another question. It depends on whether a soldier can afford to buy an apartment at a gross salary of 1,000 euros. In any case, it is essential that the salaries of the soldiers be properly repaired, perhaps even by getting out of the system of public servants, because otherwise we will have a major problem with the system itself. I think that's enough for now. Minister, in your work and further harmonisation of the law, I wish you great wisdom for our security and also for the benefit of the soldiers who want to work in the Slovenian Army; and to ensure that they are provided with the greatest possible social security. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u157	Mr. Jan Škoberne has the floor. Prepare Mr Marko Ferluga and Mr Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u158	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In a way, finally or at the right time, for the good news at all times; when this law is dealt with briefly, it should be recalled that in fact, efforts have been under way for more than two years, I could certainly say that the union struggle, as well as the struggle of Minister Andreja Katič, is comparable to that of a soldier with a police profession; that there are still tasks of comparable regulation of all professions of the same order, we are talking about law enforcement officers, firefighters and so on. And that this is an important step towards reaching out to existing inequalities in our society and ensuring that the level of dignity of payment and the dignity of working conditions as a developed European country, as well as as as a highly solidarity community, of course, we must and we want to ensure. In this respect, I think it is important that we first clarify with the introductory misunderstanding that I do not say intentional deceptions, Comrade Kordiša, who, on behalf of the Left, has found that we give a thousand 600 euros in this law and do not know what rewards to the generals, the senior officers, in short, the people who have, hold, good wages within the system in the Slovenian Army. Relative superficial reading of the law indicates that these awards, these improvements in standards and payments are intended for those soldiers and soldiers who have a fixed-term job; not for those who are in the highest pay grade, and not for those who have their jobs for an indefinite period of time. Although it may be pleasing to someone who is also the Chief of Staff — this one, them, or third — in what situation he has a fixed-term contract, since this would sometimes make it easier for politicians to interact with the Slovenian Army at some point, but that would be wrong. But if we put aside a joke and focus on the law itself and the debate that was within the presentation of the views of the groups of Members, I can say that the Law on Service in the Slovenian Army is an express law with a social sense and an explicit law that understands the meaning and meaning of family policy. If we focus on the provisions of the law that say what happens in the case of the death of a member of the Slovenian Army either at home or on the mission, it is not only about the provision of material rights; it is also a symbolic recognition that this profession, this mission of a soldier or soldier is not a regular service and that the country knows not only with what flag and posthumous decoration to appreciate and recognise this sacrifice, which it also gives to the family in the event of such a tragic event. Fortunately, this is not happening to us, so the proposal made by the New Slovenia Group does not seem unreasonable to me. Why not by the age of 18, but why not a few years longer; the possibility of buying an apartment, perhaps a nonprofit?Oh, my God! This makes sense for a simple reason, because we do not want our soldiers and soldiers to go on missions and armed conflicts with a high level of risk to their lives or with the highest level of risk, of course every mission is a risk. We don't even want any escalation in our neighborhood. Our foreign and defence policy is also highly pacifistic, so in terms of costs for the country we are talking about negligible amounts. From the point of view of recognition of the status and the role of soldiers within our society – and here I come to the point of healthy patriotism and respect for some of the country's symbols – it would be good for me to consider that we should also reflect on such ideas, which come from the opposition side, within a reasonable framework, which should then be equally set up for those, again on the comparability of professions, which also carry out their mission to the country in very specific circumstances, such as police. Unfortunately, there have been many more deaths in recent years on the part of police officers who have suffered such and other attacks, which unfortunately also resulted in a fatal accident when they were patrolling the road. Perhaps the child of such a policeman or a policeman deserves a comparable treatment with a soldier who falls on a mission or at home. Here we must ensure that the excellent practices that are within this law are able to be implemented equally with all those who deserve such treatment. And another thesis that was put forward, Slovenia today is not militarily threatened, but 25 years ago it was. 25 years ago, no one would have expected or at least talked publicly about the possibility of aggression by someone with whom you lived in the same country, in friendly relations, with solidarity and common goals. Like probably no one in Catalonia thought they were capable of Madrid, from central Spain, that they would end their autonomy, that they would send an army in the event of democratic disobedience, democratic expression of their will to Barcelona and the rest of the cities of Catalonia. We do not accept this legislation because everything is good today, and we hope that it will never get worse; but also with the awareness that we unfortunately cannot predict all circumstances and that everything is not just up to us. And while I am at it, I would like to see that Slovenia, as a country and as a community, in moments of very unfortunate circumstances for Catalonians, is able to help and meet them so that they will not have to think about it, or whether the Spanish, on the other hand, deserve what the fighters deserve for such and other rights. Because in the end all are veterans, but the greatest disaster of all is that some are also buried; and this must be prevented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u159	Mr. Marko Ferruga has the floor. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert and Mr Janko Weber should be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u160	Thank you for your word. A nice welcome to all the fellow MPs here, the Secretary of State and Secretary of State! By law on service in the Slovenian Army we try to solve all the accumulated problems from previous years and previous governments. The representatives of all these parties who have ministered are also here, unfortunately it is not possible to solve everything with a magic wand. We all know that this is a long-standing process that must somehow be crystallized; nothing can quickly be done. When we are talking about this specific Service Act in the Slovenian Army, we need to be careful that the two systems — the military and the police — are not uniformed by their function and role. It's simple, and we can't miss it. The worst thing about this is that soldiers and cops appear to be competing with each other; I don't think that's true. However, we need to understand the role of the Slovenian Armed Forces and the police as two complementary groups in the single security system, which is essential. This security system, which is complex in this situation and in this world and is rapidly changing because of its diverse externalities, is very dangerous. Slovenia cannot afford anything that could be given in this system because of its smallness and limited resources. Professionalization of the Slovenian Armed Forces, contractual, strategic reserve, voluntary service of military service – the combination of all of these is some mix from which we have to crystallize something. The Law on Service in the Slovenian Army cannot be only a law on wages, but there must be more. I think we're all in favour of having some motivated, trained professional who will do his duty and duty. It is clear that this is also linked to salaries and those benefits, the ratings that are valid. In this situation where we are, I have a feeling that there is a patchwork of some current situation that has long been messed up and is – on purpose or not – it is a matter of some debate, completely blurry. I am aware that in this situation we need to adopt an amendment to the legislation because it is obsolete and is not updated. But I still miss some long-term vision of this marriage. Let me say again, and this is something that this government, together with the Minister and us in the Defence Committee, has been trying to stop this negative trend in the decline of funds and has turned it around if it has not increased slightly. That's not to be overlooked. I think it's a positive signal for everyone. Quickly and suddenly this can't be upgraded. There is also greater concern for members and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, as they are correcting mistakes from the past due to inconsistencies from past periods, especially those who have been on international missions; this is very positive. The Slovenian army has a reputation in the eyes of the public; however, the gap between reputation and desire for employment is great. And now he's trying to sort it out in some way with this law. The career path of motivating employees is still an open question. The main purpose of this law is to re-establish the current regime of state defence, which is not disputed; then try to respond to the long-standing situation of human resources and malnutrition, and with this trend of military personnel being diverted when you are barely educated, and then people are looking for better profits and going away. Even because of the sudden decline in defence spending, which we have witnessed in the past, we have all these imbalances and weaknesses. It is my opinion that the issue of amending legislation in this area is an issue with too much focus on the existing situation rather than finding systematic solutions to the objectives. For example, this institution of payment, awarding at the time of conclusion and extension of contracts is an intermediate phase or something that somehow helps in this situation. But we have to be careful and have in our heads that marriage is not an intervention law. This law is one of the foundations in the field of defence, such as the Defence Act, and I think it would also be inappropriate for us to see that changes due to each human rights fluctuation are reflected in this legislation. The ambiguities I have mentioned are career paths, the possibility of progress and this monetary compensation measure for new staff is something; what is positive is what needs to be recognised here is the concern for these members by the age of 45 and its continuation. And no matter what has been heard, it is appropriate to support both laws, including this, and to improve it with all stakeholders. Personally, I think we all want a well-motivated, professional Slovenian Army, so I think that all constructive steps in this regard should be supported; and this is one of them. However, I will conclude with this, the fact is that the Slovenian Army in the world is much more valued than at home; and regardless of all these perturbations that are within Slovenia, it works successfully, so all honor is paid to boys and girls. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u161	Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor. Mr Janko Weber and Mr Matjaž Hanžek should be prepared to join us. Here you go, Mrs. Anya Bah Gibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u162	Thank you so much for saying that. After some of the debates I am hearing today, and if I were not a member of the Defence Committee, I would not even believe that this is possible. Today we listen to how to help a Slovenian soldier, how Slovenian soldier lives difficult, how the Slovenian Army is more valued abroad than at home. Yes, all of this is true, but for three years in this National Assembly in the Slovenian Democratic Party we have drawn attention to all these elements. We have warned that the downward trend is greater every day as regards employees in the Slovenian Army, because they themselves quit. We have pointed out that humanitarian aid is being collected for the Slovenian soldier, and no proposal has been supported by the coalition, no proposal. Or recommendations that are not even binding. And then we could make it in a coalition in a way that might be more suitable for implementation. However, no proposal was supported. That's a double act. Even more duplicity is due to the fact that we have seen today how quickly you can find solutions for those areas that are slightly better suited for you; or those who prepare them can scream more. This was, for example, a specific area of culture and art within it, because we could extend the matter regardless of how it is carried out; but believe me, it would be possible, because other professions within the culture are very nourished. But how quickly a solution can be found. Even so far as local communities are under duress, they must do something, even though they do not already have sufficient resources for the obligations imposed on them by law or legislation. They just don't have enough resources, and the average, by the way, hasn't been set yet. And today we have a so-called second set of laws that speaks much more about the Slovenian Army itself or the social and labour status of Slovenian soldiers. You're saying, with the award, we saved the job relationship. This award already exists. That's not true. But it's true that the amount will be slightly different, but the prize already existed now, look, it's nothing new, you just agreed on a higher amount. The fact remains that the Slovenian soldier earns 700 euros when he enters the system. That's the reality. And then you say he has the option of renting a work apartment. I hope you're aware of the cost of office apartments. And if one in the family is employed — and here I agree with the discussion of some predecessors — such an individual does not survive. Some of the solutions that marriage brings, a greater reward, everything nice and good; but you know that this reward is otherwise taxed, it is more taxed, it does not go in a working relationship, it is not known in the end. The minister stressed all the time, whenever the topic was that something had to be done for the Slovenian soldier – of course, we will do something to get the soldier to the top two grades, as far as payment is concerned. There is no such thing in this marriage, and here, for my understanding, is the greatest failure of this marriage. Because there's a big difference, I'm stressing once again whether you get the award or if you go up for two classes. I also believe that this particular or indefinite time could be saved in a different way. Some now mentioned the exit of the Slovenian Army from the public servants system. We've heard this before in the police department, and I'm not that optimistic about these things; but I have another view of the whole thing. A Slovenian soldier can sign a contract today for a period of ten years and then this contract will be renewed after ten years, but it must not operate in the system after 45 years. After 45 years, it is expected to be given an appropriate job in another field of work, in which Ministry, the Authority. Why, then, is it not simply an indefinite period of time? I don't understand. The possibility has an extension after ten years. If a soldier does not work well, it is also possible to terminate the contract, as it is known exactly what conditions the Slovenian soldier enters the system and what requirements they have for it; and it must do so. But I just don't get it. However, it is essential that a young boy or a young girl have a difference – given that somehow a Slovenian soldier is considered to be ideal to get a job between the twenty and twenty years of age – a job for an indefinite time because he wants to create a family because he wants to provide the conditions for a family to be able to create a real apartment, maybe take some credit; he cannot do so because it is limited. We all know how difficult it is to get a loan today, even if it is a fixed-term job. And with 700 euros at its disposal, you know what such a person can afford. Nothing. That's right. Nothing. More importantly, the car it takes to get to work, because usually these barracks are there, so you can't even use public transportation. But by what is proposed today, we have not done enough or the applicant has done enough. I will not blame the ministry here, indeed, nor the Minister herself, because I have the feeling that this government is working really well through the system – that minister who knows how to shout more, that minister will endure more. And here we have endured too little for the Slovenian soldier if we want to stop the trend, which we do not need to stress in particular, because the numbers are the ones that tell us all of this. I also have a problem with solutions, a member of a permanent staff who, due to the consequences of an accident in the workplace – and if you are a soldier, is likely to be significantly more likely to have an accident than in any other professional field – or because of illness from work to disability. The solution is that such a soldier is trying to move to another job, again in another ministry, that there is also a possibility of rehabilitation. However, the law provides that if rehabilitation is not considered appropriate, the soldier shall be allowed to receive a five-year refund and then released from the system. After five years, however, he receives a notice and the case is closed for him, even though he was injured by disability because of his service to his country. And in this case, it's not just about the money, but it's about the relationship to someone who's in the country's job, and that's why he becomes disabled, and then he gets laid off and nobody gets laid off. These are totally unacceptable solutions and can be found in the law in Article 21, which consists of several sub-headings. Once again, why not allow a young Slovenian soldier to work indefinitely; at the same time, a Petty Officer, who also does field work to a large extent, has this opportunity, as is done by a Slovenian soldier. The Petty Officer may be employed indefinitely, but the Slovenian soldier may not. I think in some parts these obligations are similar. I'm not gonna say the same. I'm not talking about them being the same. Of course, I accurately separate a soldier from an officer and then an officer, but some parts are very similar. If there is a solution to the fact that a Slovenian soldier may be employed for an indefinite period of time when he enters this system – of course on the basis of verification, based on a clear definition of his obligations, including the possibility of forgiveness, we know all of this – believe me that we will solve a lot of things as regards new arrivals into the Slovenian Army. It is not only a new arrival in the Slovenian Army, it is also a quality of arrivals in the Slovenian Army. I hope someone doesn't want it to be a collection of people who can't be found anywhere else – well, here we go – but I hope we're talking about some quality personnel. And if we want quality, we have something to offer. And believe me, someone with qualities is having a hard time landing on such conditions. 700 euros and 10 years, which will be heavily taxed. I don't think we're going to get quality with that, not with that. Of course, I will not say that what is currently in the proposed solutions is not important to the higher award at the time of entry and then the signing of the contract. Of course, for someone who earns 700 euros, every euro is important. However, look at the solutions you are looking for in other areas in the country. I mentioned a case earlier about how to find it. And for me here, it's just the attitude of this government towards this employee structure, because I know that as small as it is, there's so much that can be done. Here are other solutions that we have already discussed when we can get some subsidies, reliefs either from the family or from children, or from buying cars and so on. There's a lot of solutions that can give us some positive signals that this job actually means something to us that these people actually mean to us and that we value them where they belong. It's into big patriotism, into those who are willing to give their lives anyway. An accident can also happen in exercise, as there is no need for armed conflict. These people run and work with guns. In short, I think it's been done too little, we've been hearing about these two laws for three years. A year ago, it was promised to be on the parliamentary bench; after three years, we have this package of laws. Once again, I will not say that some solutions are not good, and I have also said, but these two proposals are not what they would really need to stop the fall. And also that those who are in the system and the state has also invested something in them, different forms of education at home and abroad, are leaving the system and looking for better jobs, better paid services outside this country. Let me remind you of individual employees in the Slovenian Army who actually finished, quit their jobs, and left in a particular unit a huge hole because they could not be replaced so quickly. They could not be replaced so quickly. I hope we are aware that this can happen. It is good that we have proposed this first hearing in the Slovenian Democratic Party, because this was not the case, today the debate is different, many of you have opened the issue, which I regret that the ministry itself has not proposed a general debate. And once again, perhaps it would not be bad if we also made a public presentation of the opinions of various stakeholders in the system, outside the system and in particular to finally agree on what we want from the Slovenian Army, where we put it in the system of values of this country, and what is the ultimate goal in fact – or that we have a successful and satisfied Slovenian army or that it dies on meals? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u163	Mr Janko Weber has the floor to prepare Mr Jan Mahnic and Mr Matjaž Han. Here you go, Mr. Webber.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u164	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! The debate on the situation of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces within the framework of the Service Act in the Slovenian Army and also in the preceding paragraph shows that many steps in the development of the defence system so far have been taken too little thought. I think it should be said that one such step was a quick decision to move from the recruitment system to professional service in the Slovenian Army. Today we can find out that we are more involved in how and how the soldier has spent his working time, whether he has enough rest, or if all the overtime is properly calculated, we are also meeting with the union work to try to protect the position of a member of the Slovenian Army. This all shows that one step has been taken which did not have exactly all the procedures to complete the career path of a Slovenian Army member. If anything, we should certainly take a very decisive step at this point in time to exclude the entire security system in the country from the system of public officials, police officers, judicial officers, military personnel, professional firefighters from the public sector, because they are actually difficult and impossible to place, which shows, last but not least, the debate on the situation of members of the Slovenian Army. It is necessary to exclude the entire security system from this public sector, otherwise there will be no effective solutions. The next, which is extremely important, is that we realize that in fact there is no transition between peace and war. It's practically gone now. If anyone thinks that Slovenia is not being attacked at this time, they're wrong. So I'm going to try to explain this on an easy case. Also in the position of the SDS Group at the previous point, my activities under the protection of Telekom have been exposed as an exceptional, important information system for the functioning of security in the country. The SDS still sees this as an act that was illegal. This suggests that the security of the state is a side issue for them. If you don't control the nervous state, of course this body doesn't work in a coordinated way and it starts to fall apart. This also happens in all these processes, because when you talk about something illegal, when you try to organize and expose it well, then it's hard to talk about someone advocating the security of the country. I will only add to this what is also extremely important for the successful organisation of the security of the country, it is not good for one political party to try to control the entire defence system. I don't know which country in the world has one political party, we have the SDS, the Defence Committee, the Security, Intelligence, and the Cyber Security Office in recent years. Does anyone imagine that this cybersecurity office is actually working on cybersecurity or on the control of information within the country? I ask this question, it would be interesting to see what answers would come from the public, what they think about it. Cyber security is now one of those major issues that should be more and more seriously integrated into the security system, and this is the absence of a transition between peace and war, if you do not control it, the security of the state is rapidly collapsing. Where has Slovenia been specifically threatened so far? Even in the period 2004-2008, because the then Janša government allowed a very reckless indebtedness of banks abroad, the resulting low-cost lending in the Slovenian economy, the financial and economic crisis, which emerged on a global scale, is expected to collapse the economy, and when you allow it, when the economy and the banking system collapses, the security system also falls. As a result, Pahor’s government then reduced funds, of course excessively, poorly thought out in all this process. I am trying to justify that Slovenia has actually been attacked and that responses to these attacks are insufficiently effective. We invested 5 billion in the banking system instead of the state itself. And that's still going on. So these questions about the security and organisation of the Slovenian Armed Forces are significantly broader than just talking about how many troops we will have and how many members of the Slovenian Army we will have. If we are to build a successful career system, we will actually have to work on training citizens for security in the country. I claim that in Slovenia we have an extremely capable number of young people who control the computer system and the entire information system to top capacity, and when you incorporate it into this security system, then of course you have done very much. So it is not only a member of the Slovenian Army who is in the barracks, but also this system is very important in modern times. This is the opportunity to take advantage of. The following, including the current structure of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces after 45 years, should be included in the protection of military facilities. Agencies sometimes have a good deal from this, but this does not mean continuing the career path of a member of the Slovenian Army. The protection of facilities is important, training of citizens and citizens is important, it is necessary to return to the period when we had the territorially organised defence of the country, and this is what also allows for the proper employment and career path of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u165	Mr Jan Mahnic, you have the floor, but Mr Kordiš and Mr Franz Jurša are behind you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u166	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Once again, Madam Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! If I stop by my predecessor who spoke about the territorial organisation of the defence. This is exactly one of the problems, Mr Weber, when we talked about the previous defence law, the military territorial command is lifted. We have been at the Slovenian Democratic Party since last year, when we sat down with the Minister of Defence, pointing out this problem, this problem is particularly visible or problematic by the defence of the country if there is a general call, to mobilisation, but it is also left in the previous law. I can very much agree with the predecessor when he said that those who are employed in the security and defence system should get out of the system of public servants. You see, Mr Weber and Madam Minister, this would be a serious reform of the defence system, reform of the Slovenian Army if you would like. We would have expected, as I said before, that in this crisis in which the Slovenian Army was in place, Minister Andreja Katič would have taken the opportunity to make some serious radical changes in the system, and that the military, if not financially at least, would have, say, human resources, morals, organisational outcomes as a winner of this crisis. But no, we missed the opportunity, we saw that the system that we have is that soldiers, if you want professional firefighters, police officers and so on, as part of public servants, are a mistake that this is not a good solution. For even after we have spoken, we see that there is an immediate domino effect when we say that, let's say in this case, we would raise two wage classes for soldiers, first it was meant to act as captains with the lieutenants, and then we know what followed by the Minister of the Interior, in particular the struggle on the line of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Defence. And now we have some compromise that brings everything but what was promised to members and members of the Slovenian Army. However, I cannot agree with Mr Webro, when he said the opposition has a commission to oversee the security and intelligence services, the opposition has a defence committee, now a secret data protection office. As far as the Defence Committee is concerned, Mr Weber, the three Members since 13 are members of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Show me one decision of the Defence Committee, which was adopted by the opposition or that the opposition voted the coalition. He's not here. Except, I think it was once that Mr Jurša missed the vote on the Defence Committee that we adopted a decision when we voted against the fact that the Defence Committee had become aware of the SOPR, the amendments to the SOPR, that is to say that we have not been briefed. But I didn't call a meeting to talk about the same things again. It was the only case. In no case was the SDS members' vote – where we are three out of thirteen, the whole opposition has five out of thirteen – a decision taken. Thus, the opposition – or specifically, when you said that the SDS party is under the control of the Defence Committee – does not hold this, unless, of course, you think that the President, in this case, can convene a meeting, and this also applies to the presidents of the other working bodies. As regards the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services, the Slovenian Democratic Party also has three members from nine. It is said that there is no majority, the opposition has a majority, along with New Slovenia and the Left Group, but you will find it difficult to find any decision on the opposition's side that voted the coalition. As for General Dobran Bozič, you said that the opposition or SDS party now has control over the Office for the Protection of Secret Data, you are the one who dismissed General Christmas. The general will probably resent me, but I will tell you the truth, if he were really ours, as you think he is, I am sure that he would not be appointed to such an important place as the Director of the Office for the Protection of Secret Information, even though I was aware that Mr Jurša was also at the top of the coalition, “but now you will appoint the SDS Director as the third intelligence service” as the Member considers him, besides Ows and Ows. As far as the law is concerned, given that there has been talk about everything else, it is similar to the law on defence. Here too, Madam Minister, our support in the second round of the draft Law on Service in the Slovenian Army is conditioned by the potential adoption of the amendments proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party on the Defence Committee. I think it is good that today's debate has gone a little wider and that we have talked more about the problems in the Slovenian Army. Specific articles and the text of both bills will be discussed on the Committee. Unfortunately, as I said before, we are not going in this direction as we wanted in the Slovenian Democratic Party, and not least at the meetings of the Defence Committee when we proposed concrete conclusions as well as last year when we recommended to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to improve the social situation of members and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces. At the time, too, it was suggested that the two wage classes should be raised to certain military personnel or members and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, and that you overcame the good intentions of the opposition, which is why today we have the situation as it is. Given that you have not answered any specific questions in the previous law, if we are already discussing how the law, both defence and service in the Slovenian Army, will bring us a cut or a cut of this status quo, or if we are looking at numbers both on the basis of support and on the basis of training, not least, especially the worrying state of the equipment and departures of members and members of the system – we have not received an answer as to how the law on defence will contribute to the improvement of the situation. Now I ask you how the proposal for a law on service in the Slovenian Army will help to ensure that more young citizens and citizens decide to go to school or to go to training and then sign the contract and become members of the permanent composition of the Slovenian Army. Late time in the defense law, too. In this mandate, we have found that the problem with the permanent composition is that the number of soldiers is falling. What we found during the migration crisis is that the contractual reserve is not working. And again, instead of embarking on some serious reform, an organisational structure, or better said way of completing the Slovenian Army, we are still witnessing what we had before. This is called cosmetic repairs and nothing in the direction that the actual situation would improve. In the field of human resources, there is one Medium-term Defence Programme of the Republic of Slovenia, not to mention that you are referring to the aim of both the Service Act in the Slovenian Army and the Defence Act, to follow the long-term development of the Slovenian Army by 2025, where we know the relationship that 8,500 members of the permanent and 1,500 members of the contractual reserve should have in the long term. See, Madam Minister, we will once again legislate a situation far from what is foreseen by the strategic documents to which you refer when you say that these two laws must be urgently adopted. How many more members will we have because you are giving some extra money to members and members of the Slovenian Army? In view of the social picture of the members, I know that every 10 Euros are important to members and members. And also because of this position in the Slovenian Democratic Party today we will not oppose either the Proposal for a Law on Defence or the Proposal for a Law on Service in the Slovenian Army. But we want more, the government has proven that if it is willful, it is also the way to move the limits of the impossible. We've seen this in the case of Magne, where in one year, let's say someone does everything to get some land and start setting something up, but when we say we had a case of a Polish carousel in Škofja Loka, it's 40 years of calvary before we get to it. In short, excuses are no longer where will is, is the way, the government has shown that it can do something if it wants to. So I am interested in how a specific matter will help members and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, and what is the plan given that in the coming years a significant number of members and members will be added to the age of 45. How do you plan to fill this rash? Do you suppose that these measures proposed in these two laws will be sufficient, or will anything else be needed? As I have already said, to accept something just so that you can say, under my ministry, we have passed a law on service in the Slovenian Army, we have adopted a law on defence, you have Members now on the table, I think it is called a law on critical infrastructure or something like that, see, it is not a way, it is a work of Sisyphus, and all the problems will come to the next one who will come to the government or to this ministry, even if it will be a member or a member of your party after the next elections. Even as far as the awards you're giving are concerned, I'd like to know what's gonna happen with the return. Wouldn't it make more sense how you plan to pay this prize in full, because we know how to spend it and how to return it, or to protect the members and members themselves, this reward, that is to say, some of the average wages you pay for it, if a member signs a contract for certain years, even during those years, and of course a member gets this award for the work done in last year or in the current year? In short, these are very grave questions. We're going to go into detail on the Defence Committee. It really saddens me that this moment, as I have said before, when it is the will to gather a two-thirds majority, we do not introduce any serious radical changes. For me, it would be a serious change in the case of the Defence Act, to change, modernise the organisational structure and the way we do the Slovenian Army, which we do not do, and then everything that follows, and in the field of the Service Act in the Slovenian Army, to make a Slovenian soldier a Slovenian soldier, which means to take him out of the system and then continue talking. If our amendments are accepted, as I have already said, you can expect our support, or else we will miss the time when indeed something could be done for the Slovenian Army and its members in these four years, when the Government of Mira Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u167	We have three more panellists to report. As the first to receive the word of Mr Franc Jurša, Mr Franz Breznik and Mr Marjan Dolinšek follow him. Mr. Jursha, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u168	Vice President, thank you. Nice greetings again to all your colleagues and colleagues! If we are talking about the service law in the Slovenian Army, I must first say that this law is actually following some goals, and in this case I will talk about only one goal, increase the interest of employment in the Slovenian Army and ensure a programmed retention, halting the reduction of the staffing composition of the Slovenian Army. It seems to me that this is a key issue. We know that if I said and supported, strongly supported the increase in wages in the Slovenian Army, this would be the most realistic solution to this problem, but at the end of the day we must also look at how capable this country is at the moment to finance the defence system. We see that some movements in the last period are actually working and that guidelines should be followed to ensure, above all, that the Slovenian Armed Forces become the real Slovenian Army for the needs of this country, and in any case we must also comply with the commitments we have made in the past when we joined the NATO system. That's how our people decided. If we are also looking at Article 30, military education and training, then the first part of this article specifically states: a candidate who has successfully completed one of the forms of military education or served a military term is considered to be a type of training. And if he enters the professional Slovenian Army, that means that such education will not have to be done if he will, of course, have it. Why am I talking about this? Our proposal is to reintroduce the recruitment system. In a way, Article 132 of the Defence Act actually gives this possibility, indeed, that it is partly limited, but given that colleagues and colleagues have also announced in some way that we will modify both laws or that we will complement them, then I see no problem that this article of the Law may be amended. In the past, when we abolished the recruitment system, the situation and mood of citizens and citizens in this regard, that this recruitment system is also being abolished, and the last survey they did in this area shows some other trends, namely that 60% of the Slovenes and Slovenes who were asked support this matter. Of course, we are aware that such a form as it has been in the past at this time will not be able to be that, in fact, this matter should be modernised and such training of young people. We're thinking about young boys here, and we'd give girls the opportunity to voluntarily join this system. They would not replace the professional army, we never said that, but they would be the ones who would be through education that would be modern – in fact it would also be determined how it would be carried out, it could be three months, it could be two months in the summer, one month in winter, we leave the matter open. And it is estimated from this capacity that even 70% of the young people who would be willing to respond to this call would be able to do so. This is a relatively high percentage when compared to what has happened in recent years when we had a recruitment system. Young people there would learn basic skills that they would actually use not only in military life but also in civilian life. In the final stage, however, mothers in some way want their sons to join the army and that they might get some more of these things that are connected to groups of people and, of course, some part of the discipline that we sometimes do not know at home to raise their children. I already mentioned that the possibility of including girls would be. Girls should therefore also adapt to the training programme. As I mentioned, it would not be that part of the Slovenian Army that would replace the professional army. Professional soldiers would still remain, and in no case would the soldiers who would go through the recruitment system be the ones who would carry out the tasks within NATO. Is it true — why did I start talking about the article that talks about education? In particular, because I estimate that these young people would be trained in a military that would already experience this military system, military service, later in fact a group, a set of young people who could join the defence system as such in the future. Of course, we would need them very much in the framework of a system of protection and rescue. We do not now have a special set of young people for civil protection to be included in that civil protection system that puts people on the agenda. We just don't have that base. We have firefighters, paramedics and so on, but these are voluntary structures that go to their activities as voluntary organisations anyway. But we don't have that part that's being perfected with members of civil protection. And we just don't have a set. That said, there would be two possibilities: an army kit and a civil protection kit. And maybe some more comments from before, because I think that this is one race, a stage, the first stage of the debate on the two defence laws, I would still like to tell someone who is not here now, I will not mention that they did not run the defence department three times, that the defence department led it once, that New Slovenia once led it for a certain time, a short time, that the longest time this defence department was led by Minister Erjavec, and then we had, thank God, at that time, the fattest cows, the largest military budget, if we look at the percentage of the social gross product. That's what I wanted to say, and another observation that was made at the expense of Russia and the Foreign Minister. I'm not an attorney for the Foreign Minister, but I have to say, in the first half of this year, exports to Russia increased by 16%, by 16%. Do you know how agreements are made in Russia, contracts? So there's a policy involved. In this case, we must say that the foreign ministry is very much partaking of our economy, that it can be successfully negotiated and that then exports to Russia can be so dramatically increased. Since there was a speech earlier that some things were very fast, I will say, we receive and even vote, there was also talk about culture, I would like to say to my colleague Anja that there will be very little investment at the local level, which will be worth more than 10 million, so that we do not have to have some major fears in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u169	Replica, Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u170	Thank you so much for saying that. Gee, yo, yo, coalition MP, let's see what's in the law, let's see what you've done with the amendment yourself. So, look, thank God, local communities won't have to finance this, it's just a recommendation, and you're very wrong about the amounts. It's just a percentage difference, up to 10 million and over 10 million. But let's leave this, you'll see the marriage in peace. But I'm not going to talk about everything else, because if you're as superficial as you were at it, then I'd rather not comment on your debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u171	Mr Franz Breznik as the last to prepare Mr Marjan Dolinšek. Here, you have the floor, Mr. Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u172	Thank you. Unfortunately, I don't have more than four minutes and 20 minutes, so I can only say that I agree with a few colleagues. As a former professional member of the Slovenian Armed Forces and also as one of the commanders, I must say to myself that I want to achieve some consensus in the near future and that the members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, including the Police and also the professional firefighters, as well as other professions in security, are removed from the so-called public sector and have a special status. Since these professions are so complex, they have particular features in the performance of this service that they are difficult to evaluate within the public sector. As I said today at the first marriage, members of the Slovenian Army, soldiers can only work until the age of 45. If we look at people living longer today, that some people today at 50 and even more are running marathons, I must admit that in the Slovenian Army we had soldiers, soldiers and officers in various psychophysical states, we had some after 50 years who had psychophysical tests better than 25 years and so on, in certain generations of the Slovenian Army, let's say the assets of relationships or somewhere else, we could have soldiers longer, even after 45 years, I don't see any obstacles here. Article 11 of the draft law on service in the Slovenian Army. Let's say it's a cross-education with senior military personnel, where a senior military officer could be, I think, from the ninth to the 13th grade, someone who only graduated from high school. Yes, but you make a difference here, so college programs until 1994 — what are the others? You make a difference between the two higher education programmes, between the old and the new higher education programme. That seems discriminatory to me. I believe that this article is written for some of the older members who will retire in a few years, and we give as some sort of credit to these older members that somehow end up being able to make progress in these few years that they have in the Slovenian Army. But here we should not make a difference, even the Higher Education Act speaks, and also higher education if you see that you cannot make a difference between the old higher education program and the new one. It's one of those things. The second thing I would say to my colleague, Vebru, is that I may not have enough time with regard to funds related to the Slovenian Army, I have also completed special special training for the means of communication, I have worked for a while in my 14-year period also on the means of communication, I have been applying new digital centres and so on, I have been working against electronic warfare. Every army in every country has a stationary system of connections, it's really connected to the state system of connections, but it has to have every autonomous system of connections. And the Slovenian Army also has certain telephone centres connected to optical cables, which are not even under the term Telekom, as Telekom always provides. So that his claims about the so-called critical infrastructure, what would happen to me if I were handed over to Telekom, look, nothing would happen, because if the Slovenian Army were so heavily dependent on Telekom, we must also close the Slovenian Army tomorrow. This is where I would end the debate, but another time, with a broader debate, I can argue with my colleague Webro. Finally, I could add, because unfortunately I do not have the time, respected colleagues, if we want to obtain more members at a time when the economy needs exactly the kind of cadre that the Slovenian Army needs, if you want people not to leave the Slovenian Army as such, then they must be properly rewarded and paid. The end comes with some amateurism of people who risk their lives every day, health, which have a limited status of action, which must have special security checks. Members who are required to perform psychophysical tests each year, which is a specific feature of this profession, cannot spend the whole day in the ministry thinking about how they will survive their families or their children. That is why money must be provided first, and then we must ensure the right legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u173	Mr. Marjan Dolinšek, you have the honour of being the last discusser. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u174	Thank you, Chairman. Let me start by saying that – and I believe that – this problem is not so easy to solve quickly when we talk about the human resources problem in the Slovenian Army, which has been deteriorating in recent times. Especially with departures, by getting new personnel there are problems, but I believe that it is possible that this marriage in some part, but not entirely, will help to make it possible only – but we will only see it – it is difficult to say now, and this, only time will show whether – this law will also partially help to animated young people to go into this profession. I think that's how it's gonna be in some part. But I have to say the following at the outset, with what my predecessor said, I agree, certainly, the financial part is important, pay, normally, is important, but I think that the profession of soldier or if you want a policeman is not only in money. First of all, I think that there must be one special relationship between everyone who joins the Slovenian Army. He needs to feel something, not that because he doesn't get a job elsewhere, but he'd go to the Slovenian Army. When I talk about belonging, about a special relationship, let me continue to say the word patriotism, but this patriotism cannot be gained so quickly and from tomorrow on, patriotism. This starts with small, from a small foot forward it starts to be a relationship with the country, to certain, let's say especially these two, professions, be a soldier or be a cop. You have to feel something different, not just to get that salary and I'm only interested in wages and nothing else. Here it is necessary to think this way from the elementary school forward to animate the military profession, because everything is too small, we can print 100,000 leaflets and some propaganda materials, I do not believe it will be a big response. The Ministry of Defence or the Slovenian Army is a very large employer, but it is not a military company. As a result, certain principles and principles of entrepreneurship cannot apply in the context of employment. If anyone thinks that way, he thinks wrong. The Slovenian army as an employer cannot compete and compete with Slovenian entrepreneurship. And no way. I therefore reiterate that it is not only money that will lure a young man into the Slovenian Army. That's why it's very important to raise young people from the front to create a swimming pool. Let's see, let's go skiing or any other sport, but skiing is the best when you have 100 little kids, 3, 4, 5 years old, growing up, they're 10 years old, they're 12, 15, and from a set of 100 original kids, it's very likely that you'll get out 10, 20 very promising future winners and so on. Here I see the main – because this problem is not now in one year, two years, it has appeared, this phenomenon has started to appear quite slowly a few years ago, and now it is growing more rapidly, and that is true. Well, we know when there were no jobs, if we were honest, perhaps this also contributed to the fact that there was more interest in employment in the Slovenian Army, today, while looking for people in entrepreneurship – looking for them, having problems – is the same problem in the Slovenian Army. With the amendment to this law, which we have, which is directly linked to the defence law that we have previously dealt with, we must also hear, it has already been said today, to put man at the forefront – we know that man is the greatest value. In this case, this is especially true for the profession of soldier. And if we want employees in the Slovenian Army and some development in the Slovenian Army, we need to create appropriate, suitable conditions for interest and to engage in the service of the Slovenian soldier. It's easier said than done. I hope so, but I also believe that this 100 an hour is now working, because a few months ago, I think, that's how you assured. I know the effects cannot yet be immediate, but it is necessary to create conditions and conditions so that the interest in entering the profession of the Slovenian soldier. That's very important. I also want to know when I go into a company, whether I have a perspective there, whether I can make progress or not, or just this job and I'm sealed to retirement. This career path is essential. Let's get out of ourselves, man wants to go up, and we know, by the age of 45, then we put him somewhere else. This rotation must be assured permanently, we need to know for one year, two further, how we will rotate: yes, such a number goes, they will add 45, we will spend them for this, and this, yes, certain shifts, is a real advance, behind comes new candidates who are starting a career again. Therefore, this career path must be completely clear and built into zero and anyone who shows interest when it is shown exactly what possibility it has to develop and rise in the Slovenian Army will already know at the start what opportunities it has and whether it will go into this or not. But if he gets a sense of uncertainty from the beginning, then that's the problem. And the problem is mainly with the human resources plans — how will you guarantee? Then it's a big problem to guarantee. But the foundation must first be created so that later this circle can begin to spin. Certain solutions in the bill itself are good, which is essential, but it is too much to follow the current situation in the Slovenian Army, given the situation. I'd much rather see the basic salary so much and so much bigger. With these supplements, it is so, I know, many times long years ago, before, in the cave, the knapsack at our house in Zasavje – because the naked salary was not high, and then they put them with the extras, and this supplement was there, and then there were fine wages in the cave. The same problem, the personnel didn't happen, they took buses even to neighboring republics, then they got into the workers' pit, they didn't want to go to work from Zasavje anymore, and then they invented various supplements and credit ratings. I'm missing some ratings here that could be offered, I don't know, a free apartment, I'm making it up, and I'm not going to keep listing. Various ratings, but something more needs to be offered. I think there is this problem here, and the problem we are now witnessing in this given situation has led to a financial decline, I mentioned earlier, which has come to some extreme limit – because probably it can't be worse, I am talking about the reward or the encouraging or decent payment of the Slovenian soldier. These supplements, of course, the soldier will also be pleased, I certainly support this and therefore I want this law to go forward in the procedure, because if we stop it now in the beginning, then we are directly against the Slovenian soldier. At least that's what I think no one wants. I mentioned earlier at the first point, we have belongings, good Slovenian soldiers, and we need to arrange for the belongings, what we need, even with the new personnel that we are going to get. But the method, the way, the reception, here will be necessary, in the back there must be appropriate, suitable conditions for the interest to enter the profession of Slovenian soldier. I think that the Slovenian soldier among Slovenian citizens is respected, and I think that even in the last period, he is growing. In recent events in the last two years, when they were able to monitor the migration problems every day what was happening to us and the help of the Slovenian soldier, people saw what it meant, even though it was possible a few years ago to measure that or more cannons or more butter. I think that citizens and citizens are now aware that we need the Slovenian Army. They could have been witnesses with their own eyes two years ago. I think there is still a lot of effort to make, but not a lot to wait for, but it has to be done here tomorrow – I believe it is working hard, but even more effort will be needed, because then it will be difficult to replace, I don't know, 300, 400 new personnel, probably not just that. There are probably 50 cases in between when there are other moments when you can't hire him. I think it is necessary to work on this and also in the direction of some ratings that this Slovenian soldier in uniform will be proud to be in the Slovenian Army. Normally, however, he will be proud to be able, the prerequisite for that is that he is satisfied and that he feels good. Thus, it will also be possible to comply with all the commands of the superiors for what is why everyone is also in his office, in the first place to carry out the protection of our country, the defence of the homeland of the Republic of Slovenia, citizens, citizens and so on, and that in fact this commitment will be citizens, citizens – the Slovenian soldier purely together, as it used to be. A typical example, I'll repeat it again, in 1991, what happened on the ground, the Territorial Defense — what did people wear? Food, drink, something else to wear. That was to be experienced. I believe we're at this point again, just so we don't waste this opportunity, and we're watching it. And that's why I believe again from this town, I call for efforts to be made, but let's keep an eye on the long term, let's have content, without going to change this same law again in two years' time. But for this law, it would be inappropriate. I'd be the first to exempt myself from a public servant, that would solve the matter immediately. He may still be trying this way, but a soldier or a cop can't be compared to a public servant. Why isn't that in other countries? Here maybe or some intermediate phase, I don't know, I wouldn't have left that thought, I wouldn't say, no, let's forget, it's a lane. [[…]] It is high time that we give the Slovenian soldier the basis to remain in the Slovenian Army, to know what his future is, what his career path is, what he can do, what he can't do, and then he's on this path on him, on every individual, whether he tries, he won't try, and then that's another story. It's nothing in itself, but the foundation, the foundation must be made possible. From this point of view, there must be thinking about finding solutions to this problem. We really don't have much time if we're going to fall another 100 in the next two years, huh, I don't know, even thinking about you making a pool out of a contractual reserve or from a strategic reserve and then moving into an active job – why not? [[…]] Someone who already has a contract — why did only some conclude a contract? And not just for the payment, I believe that no, but because of some sense of a different relationship, I believe that this is so, not just because of money, so much and so much gets per year, contractual. Here we have this strategic reserve, where everything on paper is beautiful, but we haven't even touched these materials in practice. Again, it would be inappropriate to reinvent something completely new, existing, but we haven't activated it at all, we haven't started to do anything about it. Let me slowly conclude with the desire to arrange this area to achieve consensus together and to enable the Slovenian soldier to have what he should have a long time ago, without being so acute, but we are all jumping into the air and solving this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u175	We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which the representative of the Government, Mrs Andreja Katič, will be given the floor. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u176	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I admit that I do not really know how to address the answers to your initiatives and questions. I'll start when I get to the Department of Defense. I had already talked about the strategic review of the defence, at the time it was my proposal to make a strategic review of the security of all three security pillars of the Slovenian Armed Forces, the systems involved in the protection, rescue and assistance system, and the Police. There was no great favor, then there was a refugee and migrant crisis, and it actually made it clear to me why the police, the Ministry of the Interior, did not decide to do so, because we think that all three systems are very connected and the Slovenian Army is certainly the segment that performs the most important part of protecting the defence of the country and helping both the defence, rescue and assistance forces as well as the police at work, as we have discussed in previous meetings. In 2007, from the Government of Janez Janša, Minister Erjavec of Desus prepared the Law on Service in the Slovenian Army, I believe that at the time the Minister was under the same severe pressure that the Law on Service in the Slovenian Army was in the form we have today, adopted by the Government, that he had to be interdisciplinaryly coordinated. But now I am asking, honourable Members, we have been preparing this legislation for a long time, it has been said in public what efforts we have made to bring certain solutions to the Service Act in the Slovenian Army, and where there has been the greatest opposition. I would be happy to hire Mr Dolinsk at the Ministry of Defence to help me coordinate the law with the two SMC ministers, the Public Administration and the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Finance, who wanted even the existing rights that we already have in law today, to throw out the law if the Slovenian Army had too many privileges. And I didn't want to expose it, but I'm stressing because it pains me that you think the defence department is not fighting to improve the position of members and members of the Slovenian Army. What we have in front of us today is the art of possible. Will this bring about the fact that we will have a second year when the law enters into force – I hope that, I hope, your support, now we should bite into the tongue, be humble and ask and give you everything right, in order to support both laws. I don't know if that'll do it. We have economic growth, but I am happy that we have economic growth, but this means that for people and for jobs better conditions will be in certain companies, and there will probably be fewer who choose to work in the Slovenian Army and in the Police, we will face it. I think it's quite such a projection that we can have ahead of us, and it probably won't be enough. Will this make it necessary to change the law? I do not think that we have in law, in this proposal that you have before you, or at least in those versions before going through interdepartmental coordination, enough solutions to further improve the position of members and members of the Slovenian Army. And even when you look at it, I find it difficult to answer the question of whether I have the support of the unions, of course the unions expected of us significantly more, even members of the Slovenian Army expected of us significantly more. I also wanted two pay grade and comparability for uniformed professions, but in the end, when we chose to do or go ahead or leave everything behind, I think – I think that's how you feel – that we made the right decision. But certainly, given all the support expressed in the debate, I believe that the law and the solutions we have can be further improved. I didn't want to say this, the debate basically led me to this, and it wouldn't happen to be put into the skin of the former ministers, why they haven't made any changes in the whole time, because the only change in the Service Act in the Slovenian Army was with the Public Sector Wage System Act, where rights were actually brought back to life. Then it is difficult to talk about what else to do, with the support we have in the public or in the government. But I still think that a great step forward has been taken and that we are improving the position of members and members of the Slovenian Army. In the beginning, Member Levice said that we were lying and that we were paying the best paid in the Slovenian Army. That's not true. The time-limit award is for soldiers. For those who have a fixed-term contract. High-ranking officers don't have a fixed-term contract. That is why I am very opposed to this, and I really think this is a complete deception. I would like to use the same expression as the Member of Parliament, but I don't really remember what he said right now. But I'm sure that's not true. We were talking about career paths. Of course, I have pointed out many times to the Chief of Staff of the Slovenian Army that I want to know clear career paths for all members and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, and the Chief assured me that we have this arranged, that the current system is regulated so that if people meet what they have to do if they have good grades, then they also know what their career path is. Let's just say that I asked him, and I still expect this answer to give me a document where it will somehow be defined, because I know about individual cases, when an officer was initially scheduled to go, I don't know, to the Centre of Military Schools, then he went to the administrative department or to the General Staff of the Slovenian Army, and all these changes were made within two, three months, so I'm sure it's not all arranged here. As far as funding is concerned, this government has stopped the trend of falling defence spending. And if I sum up the expected implementation of the financial plan for 2017, we will spend the Circus 261 million for the cost of work, I am talking about the Ministry's financial plan, the functioning of the poor 100 million, the maintenance and investment of 50 million. And if we look now at the ratio between labour costs, operation and investment in development, it's 63:25:12. But this is according to our standards, not according to NATO standards, where maintenance, purchase of equipment, ammunition, uniform does not count among investments, so we have certainly taken a big step forward here as well. I am close to the solution that was given about how to save a soldier after 45 years. Does anyone who is in full psychophysical readiness really have to leave the Slovenian Army? But the profession, the military profession tells me we can't have an old army. Our army is on average 40 years old, comparable to much younger. But I certainly believe that if your support is here too, that we can also look for solutions in this direction, but we must be aware that the military profession is demanding and that, in this context, it would be possible to fulfil some of the professions of soldiers until the conditions for retirement arise, probably for a very very very rare one. But how to put the system in such a way that it will not cause new injustices, as in the case of a change from a soldier to a military officer, all procedures need to be well negotiated. It was about work flats. All the funds we receive from the sale of office apartments are for the purchase of new employment apartments. We did a survey and asked who wants to buy the apartments, and we will sell those apartments with which we have higher maintenance costs than if we sold the apartment, we will buy a new one at a location where the Slovenian Army needs apartments, because even the first ten years are not actually maintenance. In this context, we believe that the agreement is on both sides, and the Ministry and the Slovenian Army will thus gain it. The question of the military in the public sector, yes or no, should in fact begin with your answer. Of course, we have always pointed out that the profession of soldiers is so specific that we cannot throw everyone in the same basket, but, respected, again, the current legislation you have adopted stipulates that, in the interviews it was said, "not because it means the collapse of the public sector in Slovenia". For this reason, it is also an agreement that what is the specificity of an individual profession should be regulated by the Defence Act and the Service Act in the Slovenian Army. With regard to the awards at the conclusion of the contracts for 5 years or 10 years – I did not say that this is a new solution, I said that it was an upgrade to the existing series of rights, but that the sum it receives is significantly greater than it was before. At the conclusion of the contract for 5 years, one average gross salary in Slovenia and at the end of each year is another, not all from the beginning, as it is now that someone, after leaving the job, has to pay back, but ends up, at the end of the year, getting another average gross salary, as we said, for five years is 1 plus 5, for ten years is 2 plus 10. “The transition from the recruitment system to the professional army was carried out too quickly.” There was a Provoje project at the time, and we talked about this at one of the Defence Committee meetings, and yes, this project has not been fully implemented and the consequences are still being seen today. But speaking of reintroducing recruitment, I would like to point out what I have already said that we have changed the system of voluntary service of military service. Before I arrived there was voluntary military service only in Vipava. Now we've divided it territorially, New City, Murska Sobota, Bohinjska Bela, Vipava. If it was an interest, we'd open up somewhere else. But I find it difficult to accept what is on the one hand a public opinion, what has been the result in the past, and what we actually know as we walk around. In 2004, before the compulsory service of military service was abolished, there were 12 thousand military bonds, I'm talking only about boys, they were attended by 4 thousand. From 12 to 4 thousand, everyone apologized in one way or another or had an objection to their conscience and everything that was possible at the time. Today we allow the voluntary service of military service both for boys and for girls and each family can decide, sit at the table and say, look, you don't go on studying, you don't have a job yet, I want to learn something, I want to learn, go on a voluntary service of military service. Of course, this decision would be much easier if the state required them to go, but I believe that this can be agreed within the family, and equally for boys and girls. Speaking of military knowledge, we already have, and also here in the Service Act in the Slovenian Army there is an upgrade to this, including in the Defence Act, various camps, primary school, secondary school youth camps, for students, where we offer them military knowledge, knowledge that we could use both in the Slovenian Army and in the Civil Protection System against Natural and Other Accidents, including in the Slovenian Police. And I say that they are mass-occupied and that young people are very pleased. However, we are not so pleased that we are more involved in the voluntary service of the military service, even though we have made it a closer home to them. And that is why I am not sure that this opinion is true, because after we have to make this decision, I think that a lot of parents would change their mind and not agree that they have to send their child into military service. Perhaps I would point out certain things, because it has been said that this law is simply for the purpose of improving the social situation. Of course, too, but we, when preparing the Defence Act, when it was said on your part that we should be ambitious and prepare a new law, have in mind only the preparation of amendments and the completion of the existing Service Act in the Slovenian Army, but at the end of the proposals for changes so much that we change more than a third of the law, and therefore we are going to prepare a new law. But this is the only attempt in all these years, from 2007 to 2017, it is said in 10 years that we have joined the amendments to the Service Act in the Slovenian Army. Certainly our ambitions have been greater, but it is difficult to reconcile this inter-sectorally. In addition to what I have said, I have highlighted as what has been most difficult to reconcile, we are also solving a number of cases that have led to disputes in the courts in the past, we are now reaching a settlement, but all these matters need to be settled further. Everything that could be reconciled with other departments as well as having good practice in foreign armies, we have also included in our proposal for the Service Law in the Slovenian Army. However, perhaps I could say in more detail once, but this probably does not belong to the plenary session of the Defence Committee, how difficult and difficult the coordination with other departments has been. However, I believe that this law is good, better than the current situation for the Slovenian Army, that under this law we will have a greater interest in employment in the Slovenian Army, that we, with existing mechanisms that did not need to change legislation, have already tried to improve the situation and social status of members and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, both with internal organisational matters and with what is a housing management strategy and all the like, and that this law, together with the defence law, will nevertheless constitute an important step forward for the development of the defence sector, the Slovenian Army and, of course, also for the fact that we have a professional, professional and particularly military, composed of satisfied members and members of our military. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u177	Thank you, Madam Secretary. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I'm guessing yes. I think I've only seen Mr. Marian Pojbich's hand. [[advertising from the hall]] That's right. Mr. Marijan Pojbič, if there are no other wishes, you have the floor, 5 minutes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u178	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I must say that I listened attentively to the debate of the Minister, who spoke in her implementation about superlatives. She talked about everything that had been wrong before, and everything that has been in this time since she took over, Madam Minister, I'm sorry, I listened very carefully, but I didn't nod. [[…]] You were talking about the superlatives, you were talking about everything you've done right now, and how with this legislation you've put into Parliament today, you're saving the situation in the Slovenian Army. I thought I'd stop by today at the previous marriage, but we're running out of time, so I didn't get a chance to say what I was thinking. In this law, however, I would like to say the following, Madam Minister, until you in the Slovenian Army address the social status and so on and the problem facing Slovenian soldiers, a key problem, so long as we do not expect real, good and quality solutions. I'm just going to make a few arguments about what I'm talking about. That is, Madam Minister, in 2011 thousands of 565 people were employed in the administrative part of the Slovenian Army, at this point, if we look at them, they are not significantly smaller, perhaps fewer people. Of this, we have at least 90 secretaries, or what they're called, who have the salary of a Brigadier General or at least that kind of thing. Can you imagine what that means? And on the other hand, we have Denmark, all of you know the size of the Danish state and so on, where 300 people are employed in administrative work. We're a thousand and five hundred and And, Madam Minister, it is logical that you were talking today about 261 million labour costs. Why are you making a fool of us?Oh, my God! What do you think we're crazy here or something?Oh, my God! Something has to be done here! In this context, something needs to be done and this burdens the Slovenian Army, this burdens the Slovenian soldier and this burdens Slovenian soldiers where they are as threatened as they are. And if you think that with these awards you are proposing and so on, you will solve the problem of the Slovenian Army, it is a huge mistake, whether you say you don't understand things or you are doing so that those who are on your line employed in the Slovenian Army keep these primates, their privileged primates. What is the Slovenian Army, where there are 7,000 soldiers, there are no 7,000 soldiers, and it needs 90 secretaries who have a salary, as I said, around the Brigadier General?Oh, my God! Did you ever say that to the Slovenian public?Oh, my God! Madam Minister, did you say this to the Slovenian public?Oh, my God! What would you say? That you do-- that I won't say anything. That's not what you were talking about. That's not what you were talking about! You can't sign up for the word anymore because you haven't signed up. You can't anymore because you've had enough time to tell your story, and I listened carefully to you every word from A to Z. In the office, but I listened to you. Just because I didn't intend to sign up for the word, but after what you said, I had to sign up. It is sad, truly sad, that you continue to defend, Madam Minister, with your team, privilege and privileges, while on the other hand you give fines through such and other legislation to the Slovenian soldier. It's rude to the Slovenian Army. I don't know what else to pick, but I don't know what to pick, so I don't know what to do to survive the family and so on. And you say things like that here today that I felt sick listening to you. I was sick when I listened to you! And the Slovenian soldiers I know from my place, they wrote me a message, I won't read you a few messages, because it would be bad for you, and it would be embarrassing for you to be here today on their behalf. You'd be embarrassed! I can't read what they wrote to me here in Parliament because there are some moral-ethic rules that apply, as in the SMC, I think. I can't help it, you're a minister in this government, and I think you're the same as the ones who talked about moral-ethic rules, but today the state has what it has that every day more people live in misery. Shame for such a government.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u179	Mr Pojbič, with all due respect to you and to the work of your colleagues and colleagues and colleagues, we sat here for eight hours, you came five hours before the 12th, the Minister listened patiently to each of you individually and answered each of you separately, and now you are disrespectful to our work, to us, you came after eight hours – allowing the possibility that you were in the office and that you listened to the debate – you are harassing us, Madam Minister. I don't know what you've been doing for eight hours. We've been talking for eight hours, Mr. Pojbich. So I expect you to respect not only our work, but also our colleagues and our ministers, because she answered everyone's questions. Here you go. Procedurally, Mr. Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u180	Dear Mr Vice President, it's shameful and insulting for me because you weren't here when I was sitting! And don't tell me I've been missing eight hours! I sat here an hour ago, I don't know how many hours ago I was three, four times, five times here in Parliament, listening. Here in the hall! And it's embarrassing that you've allowed yourself such a collapse. I'll prove it to you after the CCTV footage of how many times I've been here. You're a liar and a liar! This is an extremely unacceptable act by the Vice-President of the National Assembly. I won't let you do that! Before the Slovenian public you must now apologize to me for lying because you have deceived the Slovenian public. If you have not been here and monitored these sessions in the way that I did – I have really been in the office and in the middle of it – and you have not been properly informed, then do not allow yourself to offend me. But I won't let you do that, and you have no right. In front of the entire Slovenian public, I request a public apology for the lie you have just given.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u181	I don't know what my lie was. I've been here all day. I said that I allow the possibility that you were present, I said that you didn't pick up in eight hours, and five minutes before twelve, you want answers and you're referring to the disgraceful functioning of the National Assembly. [[advertising from the hall]] Here you go. You've got a procedure. I just wanted to say that you had all the time to ask a thousand and one question to the Minister. You have a procedure, Mr. Marijan Pojbič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u182	Mr Vice-President, indeed, I will say, I am sometimes, as I am, a very vehement man, but I do not allow you to deceive the Slovenian public and lie publicly in the position of Vice-President or as President of the National Assembly. You said explicitly and very clearly that I was not here for eight hours in the Chamber, and that is – Mr Vice President, I will give your magnetogram a print and believe me that I will prove, next time you show what you said here. And please, once again, you have a chance to apologize to me for making a mistake. And don't say you didn't do it because you lied. “Eight hours,” you said, “you were not present in the hall, regardless of whether you listened in your office.” That's what you said, Mr Vice President, and please don't do that, don't lie, don't fool the Slovenian public because you're wrong. Please step out of this position because we have chosen you to behave properly. And I didn't attack you. If the Minister is part of the SD, it does not mean that you can treat me like a Member and lie publicly before the entire Slovenian public. You don't have that right! And that's your way, the way SD, how to deal with all those who don't think like you. Mr Vice President, you have no right and I do not allow you to discuss this with me in the National Assembly. I have been well-intentioned, I wanted to say what I think as a Member, I am right. And even if I hadn't been here in the gym for eight hours, I'd have the right to say what I mean. But I was! I've been here at least twice to three times for a while, but you've been gone, sir. You were once here because we were looking at each other because you were just discussing it, and it was you who were discussing it, and I was sitting here. And at least then, I hope you saw it. Are you talking about someone I don't know? Can't you see who's sitting in the hall? Shame if you don't see it. Or do you have a problem? Can't you see through here, or how? I do not allow you to act this way towards the Members and Members who have elected you to this position. Mr Vice-President, this time I have the same voice, and you can't say otherwise, because I'm going to have this printed, send it to all Slovenian media and ask you to apologize to me publicly. This time not only in this way, but I will do something else, because for now, thank God, I have a position in this Slovenian public. People love me because they believe in me because they know I'm not a liar. And you're a liar today. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u183	Okay, Mr. Marijan Pojbič, I'm going to stop here. We've all made our views. Procedurally, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, then procedurally Mr Jan Mahnic. Here you go, Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u184	Thank you very much, Chairman. I usually know you as Vice-President of the National Assembly and leadership by not interfering with the debate. I believe it's a little hotter for you today, but it's your client friend, it's a SD-led portfolio, but the problems are big. That is also what today's debate has shown. There is only one thing I would like to point out, because I think it is right, but Mr Pojbič was unable to discuss in the meantime because he was not reported, so you cannot tell him why he did not answer earlier. But he answered in accordance with the rules of procedure, and we both know that. But I would ask that you don't cheat on this because the minister didn't answer all the questions. She couldn't answer because she couldn't answer, but she said a lot of things that she couldn't answer because she didn't know how to deal with in a coalition. We have that kind of power, unfortunately, it's a coalition, SD, SMC, and you deal with it yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u185	All right, I'm gonna go over all this political stuff, and I respect your opinion. Mr. Jean-Mahnič, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u186	Thank you, Vice President. Two things. I think that when fellow Marian asked for your apology, he did it justly — why? Because you have actually deceived, you know that the Defence Act and the Service Act in the Slovenian Army are at first reading, which means that there is neither in the second nor in the shorter procedure when Members are allowed to apply and discuss themselves. We've been talking for eight hours and holding what you said was that Mr Pojbič didn't call for eight hours, but that's misleading because you didn't tell me why he didn't answer. I'll tell you why he didn't call because he didn't check in. When we discussed the Defence Act, Comrade Pojbič did not apply and could not discuss, but we know that we spent all the time in the Defence Act and there was no sharing of time, so he could not come forward. As far as the second law is concerned, the service law in the Slovenian Army, which we have just dealt with or are still dealing with, could also not be heard because it was not reported for discussion, because the first reading requires a preliminary announcement within the time frame of the parliamentary group. But it is true that there is still a good hour left, and within this he has applied for a debate because he can. So it really wasn't fair on your part that you said he hadn't discussed it for eight hours. Tell me more why he didn't discuss it – because he couldn't. But he was here many times in the hall, and he went out, just like you and a lot of other people.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u187	Everything's fine and fine. Any more procedural? Here you go, Mr. Ducky, and then I'll answer. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u188	Thank you. It's a little weird, but he went out, and he couldn't. I went out, too, and if I wanted to, I'd want to. I mean, look, now I'm listening to this, then in the Foreigners Act, when Mr. Brglez didn't come, he didn't have Janez Janša with whom to ping, and he said, "What if it were a war?" I hope something like this doesn't happen to us, and the SDS will be in position. And you, please, after the rules of procedure, take this to the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u189	Just now. I respect everyone's opinion, including those of you who have applied for procedural action. Mr. Pojbich, you have every right to apply, my purpose was not to offend anyone, and I do not think I have offended anyone. You must admit that after eight hours you have come to your attention when most Members have already understood that we are concluding the debate, in an unusual and grave way, whatever the case. We will have a debate on this subject, not only on the committee, but also on the plenary, so, colleagues, colleagues, I wish you all a nice 30-minute break, and then we vote. I conclude the general debate and interrupt this item on the agenda. We will meet at the vote at 20.00. Colleagues, colleagues, thank you very much, very nice evening.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u190	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the National Assembly. Before we proceed to the voting process, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: 22, 3, 20, 21 and 26 items of the agenda. We are moving on to the votes of the National Assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We are moving on to the end of the 22nd item of the agenda, which is to re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure. We are moving on to a re-decision on that law. In doing so, I would like to point out that in the re-decision, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a majority of the members of the National Assembly should vote in order to adopt that law, i.e. 46 or more. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 31. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 31.]] I understand that the law is not passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture, following a reduced procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled of 18. Ten. 2017. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Levica Group to Article 1(1). If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the same proposer to this Article shall become irrelevant under Article 2 and, if this amendment is not adopted, it shall become an irrelevant amendment to Article 4a. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 9 votes against 54. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 54.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Levica Group to Article 1(2). We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with a vote of 4 to 59. [[Four votes in favour.]] [[Against 59.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SMC Group to Article 1(2). We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 21. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 21.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. As the amendment of the Left Group to Article 1 of Article 1 has not been adopted, the amendment of the same proposer to Article 4a becomes irrelevant. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted the amendment to Article 1 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this Article. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would have made the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 55 votes in favour and 13 votes in favour. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against 13.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 20th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Defence Bill. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a defence law is suitable for further consideration. In doing so, I would like to point out that in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 124 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a two-thirds majority of the votes of Members and Members present are necessary for the adoption of the law. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the leftist Group, Miha Kordiš.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u191	Thank you for your word. The Left will vote against this law because it subordinates our defence sector to the needs and interests of NATO. This subordination is unacceptable to us for two reasons. The first reason is moral, but a normal person cannot support United States imperialism operations, such as those in Iraq, those in Libya, Afghanistan and so on. The key problem here is not that they are contrary to international law, but to the fact that they caused the death of people without them, and they have also produced millions and millions of refugees who are finally knocking on our doors. The second reason is the financial reason, as long as we are subordinated to NATO, our military budget will not be based on the needs of Slovenia, but on the interests of greatness. And we're going to have what's happening to us now, we have a country that's not militarily threatened, and we have a country where there's a wildly severe social, health and other crisis, but the government in these sectors is still essentially limiting, they're subject to a golden fiscal rule, and the only expenditure that's growing faster is the expenditure on Nate's interests in the weapons budget. This is a totally wrong world. I am not convinced by the two quasi-argment which is supposed to go towards a neutral stance, as advocated by the socialists, and have appeared in the debate. We have heard on several occasions that our security, security situation in the world has deteriorated and that we have to turn the board and “infuse” the military budget. Look, it's pure ideology. What is more at stake today is the illegal imperialist interests of the United States in Georgia, Ukraine, Syria, the South China Sea and so on. What has changed is not the military threat of our country, but the fact that the US(way) and their satellites have rightly received it for the first time in these countries. It is just crazy that the Slovenian political class is following its defence policy in the US. Secondly, it also does not support the argument that neutrality is more expensive than membership in relation to NATO. Before we went to NATO, we had an army that was cheaper, now we went to NATO, we are constantly being asked to raise the military budget. In parallel, we can look at our northern neighbour Austria or, for example, neutral Ireland, both have a lower share of their public spending on the military than in Slovenia. We cannot support a security policy that is immoral and irrational, so we will vote against this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u192	Procedural or explanation of vote? So, procedurally, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u193	Thank you for your word, chairman. I don't know if it's a vote or if it's a floater. I propose that we end this meeting because obviously we cannot guarantee normal voting conditions. All the time they're chatting, they're growling, there's something you're growling, I think you'll guarantee [[…]] [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, we are in Parliament, gentlemen, you are very fond of talking about the temple of democracy. Either you guarantee peace or let's stop this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u194	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matjaž Germany.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u195	Thank you very much, President. The two laws before us mean, in short, that the Slovenian Armed Forces also fall into the 21st century, not only within the meaning of the organisation, but mainly in the area of civil or non-military defence. It is in the field of civil military cooperation and in the event of natural disasters that they are regulating the entire area of legislation that affects both military work and non-military work. Above all, in some way, the trend, which has been from 2010 to 2017, I am talking about the financing trend of the Slovenian Armed Forces, it is also reinforcing legislatively and in some way, from 1995 and 1994 it is strengthening the area that is so necessary, in order to somehow address and meet the challenges that are ahead of us, not only in the context of our country, but also in the context of Euro-Atlantic links and the European Community. The Social Democrats will be supported unanimously by both proposals, and in particular by what we are talking about now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u196	Is there any other explanation? In my own name. Is there anything else on behalf of the Member of Parliament? It's not. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u197	Thank you for your word, chairman. As long as this country does not have some serious policy for everyone under 40 years of age, I will never vote for buying some in the base of a bucket, in fact you will probably fully equip them, again someone will earn pennies with it, in five years' time will say that the standard needs to be fixed, again some parliamentary appeal instead of the science given, as we have put in those tanks that we now have in the Beer can, in ten years they will say that these cans are too old that you have to promise something else, and you will buy new buckets. If you want to develop an army – Mr. Mahnic speaks a lot about cybernetic such, hybrid up, down, let's give 15 million into a serious study of mathematics to develop good cryptographic programs. Let us then follow the example of Estonia, not the charade that we are walking on. But the state of the Slovenian Army you all cooked, which you were on these districts somewhere else. The Slovenian army is no different from UKC Maribor, where it was on one side and the other SDS for quite some time there. You can't say, be, and it is. It's in fairy tales, not in Parliament. I worked high school in New Town, Krka's already 40 or lie, 50 years ago, this year she's going to be 47. Krka's awards or she already had them, she knew what recruitment was and what human resources policy was. The fact that the political class of Slovenia has been behind Krk for 50 years is a tragedy. We need a different and different political class and also a small, flexible, professional army, we need some two good helicopter squadrons that are used, even in case of accidents, not some kind of consolidation of NATO connection. Of course I'll vote against it. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u198	We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 55 for them and 6 for them. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against six.]] I note that the decision has been adopted and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Defence Committee as a working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Continue with the end of the 21st item of the agenda, this is with the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Service in the Slovenian Army We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a service law in the Slovenian Army is suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the leftist Group, Miha Kordiš.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u199	Thank you for your word, chairman. As you may have expected, we will not support this law in Levica either. Because I know I'm going to intercept some sign that we're against improving the standard of soldiers, let me once again state the reasons for our decision. In Levica we are committed to improving the salaries of all civil servants with the lowest wages, and there are surely soldiers in there. It is not fair, however, that new supplements will raise the salaries of only military personnel and not all others. It's not fair to paramedics, it's not fair to cleaners, in short to those 10,000 people working in the public sector on a minimum wage or even outsourcans, and you're going to be here now with a new supplement to raise the salary of the Chief of Staff, who doesn't have a bad salary at all, to EUR 720 per year. The 13th salary, for example, called the award for signing the contract, will also be awarded to officers until the rank of major. All we ask in this wage policy is that wages are fixed upwards for all public servants who have these low salaries, not that you are using the bad salaries of soldiers to make sure that the mints of military bureaucracy. [[Incomprehensible]] As I said in the debate, improving the status of soldiers is not nearly the goal of this law, it is only a disguise and a means to force the number of soldiers. Why do I say force? Because our country is not militarily threatened and there is no need to strengthen the strength of the Slovenian Army. All of this circus around the Slovenian Army, the 430 million euros that will go to the military next year, is intended to provide about a thousand soldiers a year for various operations abroad, some of Nate's carnivores, which are hardly in the interest of Slovenian citizens and citizens. You'll say I'm making it up. No. This is the declared position of the Ministry of Defence. And already here there have been problems, remember only the white strike of soldiers in Kranj, who were appointed to send to NATO's operation in Latvia, for there to march on Russian borders. The solution to all this is simple. We cancel unnecessary operations abroad, stop unnecessary capacity, and give savings to sectors that provide the well-being of the country and the population that we really need: science, health, education, social protection, infrastructure, development. Since the army, which is a subcontractor of Nate's interests abroad and is not even capable of defending the territory of its own country, upon recognition of its own doctrine, is an army that we do not need.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u200	First, an explanation for the vote on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Jan Škoberne.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u201	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! If we get back to reality for a moment. Of course, we need a service law in the Slovenian Army, which is what the social and political consensus has been about. Part of this is the regulation of comparable professions, and the most important part of this is the fact that we have the Slovenian Army in its civilian and military capacities and that we need both capacities. We may not be at risk right now, but to say that circumstances do not change, including security and military, is the same as to say that, as we have economic growth today, we do not have to think about what will happen when the next economic crisis comes. Believe me, it will come, as we must be prepared for the next pharynx and perhaps for the next dangerous situation. We will support the Law on Service in the Slovenian Army in the Social Democrats Group because it is actually a law that contains fundamental and important elements of solidarity, family policy, because it solves the problem of those who have a fixed term of employment and must end their jobs in the Slovenian Army by the age of 45, which have not been properly paid so far, because, respected colleagues and colleagues, it is likely that all of us in this assembly, I hope, at least, Comrade Kordish, that if death occurs on the battlefield, on the mission, either at home or abroad, there are some mechanisms to support the recognition of this victim and also to help families, relatives, children. Is this also wrong? It is probably logical that the state of human beings and the profession of soldiers, as it was pointed out in the debate, is not as ordinary a profession as a police officer. It has its specifics, it has a ban on sentences, it means a life mission which is a mission for the people of this country in civilian and military capacity. With this law we also give these people as a state part of the recognition that we appreciate them that we need them, and no, we do not force anyone into the Slovenian Army. However, we give them the opportunity to live decently from their work, to receive a fair payment, and when they can no longer be part of the composition of the Slovenian Armed Forces, they can also receive a decent and normal retirement in some place of employment under normal conditions of retraining and under some perfectly logical and normal conditions of employment, such as within the public sector. Why? Because this is what all healthy solidarity societies do. And no, this law at no point supports any American imperialism and even Marxist textbooks do not go to read exactly as it does not with the Bible, and to think directly.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u202	Procedurally, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u203	Thank you for your word, chairman. My former student is a good rhetoricalist, because he had a good teacher, and he's gone. We are all the time very in reality, but the ideological view of the Left is a different ideological view than the view of the third path. That's a fact. My colleague knows that I was the one who started the debate on the state of the Police in this House. Why did I start it? I was on a train, and I saw how many cops' kids get if anything happens to him in the workplace. So I ask that my colleague apologizes to me for being in reality all the time, much more than anyone else in this National Assembly, and also to my colleague Kordiš. But we are reading Marxist literature, including the Bible, a colleague saw it in my office, I have it, or else the Croatian translation given to me by my great - grandmother, and my children also regularly read Bible stories and learn human rights from them, something that those who knock on Catholicism and Christianity do not see in this national assembly. Thank you for your word, and then I'll have an explanation for your vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u204	First of all, I'm going to give you a reminder because it's a procedural abuse in this case, and that's a fact. [[advertising from the hall]] No, let's just cut it out. Is there any other explanation for the voice? All right, sign in. An explanation of the voice in his own name, Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u205	Thank you for your word, chairman. To this day, if anyone were to ask the majority of those present in this national assembly who is the greatest wartime firefighter, perhaps the vast majority would answer Jean Mahnic. That's until today. Well, today it turns out that Jan Škoberne from SD is a much bigger problem. He advocates imperialism, disguised as a cellophane, and he would wear schools. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u206	I mean, what does that have to do with an explanation?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u207	May I? Can I please explain my voice?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u208	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u209	Schools and hospitals would be built on the tip of bayonets, and bombs are fine if they have a democratic bow around them. That's one of the reasons I can't support this marriage. The other of these reasons is certain [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Let's just keep it quiet, okay? The other of these reasons is certainly that the award for employment is not provided only to soldiers. The right to this award will also be granted to officers of the rank of Major who already have a solid salary without it, while leaving at the same time other public sector staff who are at the minimum without the necessary increase. In the debate, I was accused by the Minister of lying and that all officers would conclude an indefinite contract. I didn't really lie. She lied to the minister. First, because it is not true that all officers conclude a fixed-term employment contract, go to the brother’s first paragraph of Article 20 of the Law, there you will find a record of the officers concluding an indefinite contract or for a certain period of ten years. And the second time we had a presentation in our parliamentary group, there was also a very clear statement made by the ministry staff. In short, the prize will not only go to those who have the lowest wages and would really need it, but also to officers with solid salaries.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u210	Now, first of all, before I give my word forward, the first part of my explanation of vote was abuse. The explanation of the voice is always in your name and not in the name of others. So, a second reminder. [[advertising from the hall]] Procedurally, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u211	Thank you for your word, chairman. If you justifiably gave me a reminder, I admit, it would seem to me that it should be equal. The Rules of Procedure of this Criminal Policy apply only to Miha Kordiš and to me in this National Assembly. [[advertising from the hall]] It's true. Only for Micah Kordish and for me. Han can pee, Pojbich can yell, but no, I'm the only one who can talk. You may have us, presidents, I'm glad, but you still have to stick to the rules of procedure. Let the rules of procedure apply to all. Secondly, please ensure peace in the hall. Thirdly, please explain to me whether, in explanation of my vote, I can refer to the statements made by the other 89 Members of the Parliament and Members of the National Assembly, because it is somewhat unclear whether we will therefore have to have a call from the commission chaired by our distinguished colleague Vatovec. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u212	I'll just give you a partial answer. Once it is quite obvious when an explanation is not really an explanation, but it is a debate or an account with others. In such cases, and I've previously ruled as chairman, I can do that, and that's it. I'm adjourning the session. We'll resume in 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u213	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members! We continue the adjourned session of the National Assembly. Procedurally, Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u214	Thank you, President, for your word. I think that saying of a note was previously completely unjustifiable. We all know that behind the provisions of laws such as these or others, there is often more to it. And what is in the back usually refers to an argument by Members who either defend or attack this law. And since we're talking about a package of military legislation, I think it's a very relevant fact how you're going to decide on this law, even if, say, one or more Members advocates a line that is basically the cultural defense of American imperialism – democracy at the tip of the bayonet. I think it's a perfectly legitimate argument, and if the whole room jumps into the air like it's stepping on a tail, I don't think it can play any function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u215	Explanation of the vote according to the definition: “No controversy...” [[advertising from the hall]] yes, when I respond to this procedurally, “rewarding, convincing, calling and asking questions, which is for the purpose of the debate, but it is a matter of presenting the substantive reasons why the Group or Member will vote in favour or against the proposed solution.” This is a definition that we have adopted or have long accepted, and I ask that we remain within this framework. Procedurally, Mr. Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u216	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I did not intend to advertise, but I have to say procedurally that you should warn Mr Duck, because I never spoke to him about the voice he was discussing here in the National Assembly, the tone he was discussing here, I never mentioned it, and he claimed that I was yelling in the National Assembly. Please give him a warning and remind him to apologize publicly, because this is very unfair, very unfair, because, in principle, Mr Trčko, I must say, I respect and never before have we had such a discussion. That is why I think it would be appropriate for Mr Trcek to apologize to me because that is not fair what he said. I didn't go into his debate, I don't go down either by content or otherwise, the color of the voice I speak with in the National Assembly is his problem. I don't like how and what color Mr. Duck is talking about either, but look, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u217	Now, please, I can break it off again. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, you can. Procedurally, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u218	Thank you for your word. I like basically how my colleague Pojbič discusses and speaks in the National Assembly, and I value it a lot more than many think, and many say, “Ah, this Pojbič”. Well, Slovenia is diverse, Pojbič comes from one area, knows how it must reach its voices, and behaves accordingly in the National Assembly. Once when I came — where was it? At the Shrine, they said, “Where are you going? He's been here for two hours." Marian, I sincerely apologize to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u219	We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 55 votes against none. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] Procedurally, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u220	Dear President, before you adjourned the session, there was one Kordish, two me, to explain the vote in this law. And you ran me over. It seems to me that you have violated the rules of procedure and that you have to give me a reminder, if you don't give me a reason to vote back, because this is probably difficult now and I haven't even been able to vote now, and you've drugged me as a member of the National Assembly so that I can't. That's what happened because of the turd that's working here, I admit it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u221	That's not what I'm doing, and that's all I can say. I just didn't see at that point that there was another explanation for the voice. I could have been interrupted before we voted, during the vote, and it's actually too late after that. But I'm not going to give myself a reminder. I note that the National Assembly has adopted a decision and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Defence Committee as its parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 26. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. We are moving on to the examination of the Proposal for an election to the judicial function of the higher court in the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the election of Ms Irene Polak Remškar as Judge of the Supreme Court in the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the Registrar of the Magi Council. Ionica Marflak Trontel. Please, out of respect for a little peace.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u222	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Six candidates applied for an invitation to serve as a senior judge in the Administrative Court before you. The Court of Justice conducted the selection procedure, as usual, in three stages, first to verify the fulfilment of the tendering conditions of the candidates, then to assess their suitability, taking into account their past experience in the administrative field, taking into account the academic title acquired, their professional publicity activities and the final opinion of the President of the Administrative Court, and on the basis of these criteria, held an oral interview with four candidates at the third stage. Irena Polak Remškar, born in 1966, has long and varied experience in judicial work. As an expert, she was at the beginning of her career at the Basic Court in Ljubljana as a professional associate and then continued her career in law. Since 1994, she has been a single lawyer, has experience in various legal areas, and has been actively involved in administrative matters, particularly denationalisation, construction and tax law. It is also professionally publicist in the field of administrative law. She also had a very successful conversation with members of the judicial council, which confirmed her rich experience in various legal areas. The Council of Justice has thus assessed that Irena Polak Remškar of all candidates has demonstrated an integrated best combination of professional knowledge, work experience and working ability to perform judicial service in the judicial seat of a higher court in the Administrative Court and is therefore proposing it to the National Assembly for election to that court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u223	The proposal was addressed by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the motion for a decision, by which Mrs Irena Polak Remškar is elected to the judicial office of the higher court in the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 51 votes in favour and 11 votes in favour. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 11.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for Appointment to the Supreme Court of the Supreme Court of Slovenia. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the appointment of Mr Mitja Kozamernik as Judge of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the Registrar of the Magi Council. Ionica Marflak Trontel.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u224	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, the number of Supreme Judges has decreased significantly over the past few years. There are currently only four judges in the Criminal Division of the Supreme Court. The Council of Justice elected Senior Judge Mitjo Kozamernik among the five candidates for the hearing and proposed him to the National Assembly for appointment as Judge-in-Office. Mitja Kozamernik, born in 1962, began his professional career at the Basic Court in Kranj, where he served as a district judge in 1991. He was later assigned to the Criminal Department and to the District Court’s on-call investigation service in Kranj. In 1996, he was appointed to the Supreme Court, where he performed his duties as secretary and as registration officer. In 1998, he continued his work as Secretary of the Council of Justice. He was then assigned to the Supreme Court in Ljubljana in 2001 and in 2006 he was appointed as an international judge at the Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina in Sarajevo, where he remained until 2012, when he again began to serve as a senior judge at the Supreme Court in Ljubljana, where he still judges today. In addition to the extensive and in-depth expertise in criminal matters, which is reflected in the success of the confirmation of its judicial decisions against which legal remedies have been brought, it is also characterized by exceptional professionalism and commitment to judicial service, reliability and accuracy, high-quality and well-founded judicial decisions, and the readiness for pedagogical and mentoring work in the judiciary. His experience in the international criminal law field is also of great importance, which gives his judicial work a broader view, which is increasingly relevant in the performance of judicial work, especially in the work of the Supreme Court. Thus, the Council of Justice estimates that Mitja Kozamernik is the most suitable candidate for the City of Justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u225	The proposal was addressed by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision appointing Mr Mitja Kozamernik to the Supreme Court of Justice of the Republic of Slovenia. Explanation of vote in personal name. Is there one on behalf of the MP? No, no, no. A personal explanation of the vote, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u226	Thank you for taking my chance earlier. We are a formal constitutional parliamentary democracy. For this form, over the past 25 years, what has happened has been what I call feudalization or looting. I'm gonna say what I wanted to say at the last point. There is nothing more dangerous than having disgruntled people in repressive organs and having dissatisfied people in the third branch of power, which the judiciary is no doubt if you have judges who walk you in the courtroom with some interpretations of laws on some such photocopies, if you have almost a problem in court, whether they will bring more paper from home or receive it. Apparently, that fits the politician because you didn't handle it. I'm not just saying, I know a few judges and judges from our end. That's a problem we should be dealing with. The second problem, the second relic, where I absolutely agree with the President of the Constitutional Court, is that we are going into constitutional change, which she also proposes, and we are taking away this house's freedom, duty, the right to await the third branch of power. The third branch of power should scavenge itself with all responsibility, because we in particular have in the congresses – usually in this reference the right hand in particular does so, if they do not like it, we have already had this parade several times, doing charades around the selection of candidates and candidates. I am disappointed by this law, which has not passed over, with the Minister, because we have not gone into this constitutional change he has promised. That is also why I am abstention in all such votes. For this reason, because I also believe in the third branch of power, that it is proper to scavenge its own staff, even though I know that it is not always so [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u227	There's no more explanation. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 51 votes in favour and 12 votes in favour. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 12.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for the election of three members of the Permanent Court of Arbitration based in The Hague. On 2 October 2017, the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Borut Pahor, proposed to the National Assembly that for the 3 seats of members of the Permanent Court of Arbitration, based in The Hague, Dr. Misa Zgonec Rožej, Dr. Sebastjan Zbichnik and Dr. Juri Toplak. I give the floor to Mrs Natasa Kovac, Secretary-General of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, for a further explanation of the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u228	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Minister of Justice informed the President of the Republic of June this year that three candidates, Dr. Miš Zgonec Rožej, Dr. Sebastijan Zbičnik and Prof. Yuri Toplak, had applied for two invitations from the Ministry for three places, members and members of the Permanent Court of Arbitration in The Hague, and that all three candidates met the criteria for carrying out this function. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has also assessed that all three candidates fulfil formal conditions and are suitable for the performance of that function. The Council of Justice gave a positive opinion to Dr Misa Zgonec Rožej's candidacy, and for the other two candidates, it assessed that they were not sufficient to meet the highest criteria of professional competence in the specific legal field of international public law. The President, as usual, consulted the heads of the parliamentary groups and members of the nationalities on all three candidates. He received unanimous support for the proposal to submit all three candidates to the National Assembly and received majority support for the proposed candidates. On the basis of the assessment of the Ministry of Justice that all three candidates fulfil the criteria for the exercise of this function, the President of the Republic has also taken into account in his assessment the fact that the Permanent Court of Arbitration has been dealing not only with inter-state disputes and international public law but also with other branches of law in recent years. Currently there are only five interstate disputes and 121 disputes from other legal areas where customers, businesses, different organisations and the state are resolved in different disputes. Knowledge from other areas of law is therefore important for this function. The President of the Republic shall therefore forward all three proposed nominations to the three Member States and to the members of the Permanent Court of Arbitration in The Hague. All three candidates are doctors of legal science. Ms. Misa Zgonec Rožej devoted her entire career to international law, because of excellent results at the postgraduate study in New York, she was selected, inter alia, to conduct nine-month training at the International Court of Justice in The Hague, participated in the Senate of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, in 2007 she was involved in the advisory group of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the resolution of the border dispute between Slovenia and Croatia, in London she worked as an expert on international law as a legal adviser in various international organisations, and was an assistant in the course of the International Public Law Study of the University of London, a researcher at the Royal Institute for International Affairs, now working at the International Court of Justice in The Hague. He regularly teaches in education in the field of criminal international law, publishes scientific and professional contributions in prestigious professional journals. Dr. Sebastijan Zbičnik has been engaged in international law since his studies at the Faculty of Law of the University of Maribor, where he also enrolled in postgraduate studies of international law and in this context collaborated with foreign recognised experts in various fields. He studied international law with a doctoral study at the European Faculty of Law in Novi Gorica and completed his knowledge in France, Switzerland and at numerous seminars abroad, Austria, Germany and elsewhere. At the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, he performed a number of tasks in the international law sector and also carried out the work of an attaché at the Embassy in Macedonia responsible for visa and consular business. At present, a lawyer in his own lawyer's office and represents, among other things, a number of parties before the interstate courts, as a consultant for refugees, represented a number of applicants for international protection, including before the Court of Justice of the European Union in Luxembourg. That work is closely linked to European Union law and international public law. It works with various international organisations, the Peace Institute and NGOs. Professor Yuri Toplak is an outstanding professor of law and chairman Departments for Constitutional, Administrative and Financial Law at the Faculty of Law of the University of Ljubljana. It has been engaged in international law for more than 17 years, in particular international human rights protection within the framework of the United Nations, the Council of Europe, GRECO and other organisations. Deeply concerned with international standards of democratic processes, elections, the fight against corruption, actively advocates equality before the law, the rights of persons with disabilities and so on. As a legal expert, he has worked with a number of international organisations in various countries, Canada, France, Finland, the United States for 15 years. He regularly teaches at many universities around the world, including at Harvard University, in the field of international law, international conventions and so on. His bibliography includes more than 250 units, and he published his first book at the age of 23. All three candidates also presented themselves publicly at the Office of the President of the Republic last week and were able to meet them. The President of the Republic shall also propose to the National Assembly for election all three candidates mentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u229	The proposal was treated by the Mandate-Election Commission as a parent working body. In order to present the report to the Commission, I give the floor to the President, Dr Mitja Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u230	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. Dear Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament! The mandate-voluntary commission shall be held at the 38th session of the 12th session. Ten. 2017 as a parent working body, considered the proposal for the election of three members of the Permanent Court of Arbitration based in The Hague. Pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 6 of the Law on the Proposal of Candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for Constitutional Judges of International Courts, there are 2. Ten. 2017 The proposal was forwarded to the National Assembly by the President of the Republic of Slovenia. The law lays down the procedure for proposing and electing candidates for a judge or candidates for judges who participate in international courts as representatives of the Republic of Slovenia on the basis of international treaties binding on the Republic of Slovenia, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 7 of the Law, elects a candidate for the International Court of Justice to be elected by secret ballot by a majority of the votes of all Members. The President of the Republic proposes to the National Assembly that Dr. Misa Zgonec Rožej, Dr. Sebastjan Zbichnik and Dr. Yuri Toplak be elected for three seats of members of the Permanent Court of Arbitration based in The Hague. It follows from the proposal that the Ministry of Justice has published a tender in the Official Journal No 13/2017 and a repeated invitation to tender, Official Journal No 18/2017, for three vacant seats of members of the Permanent Court of Arbitration based in The Hague. The Ministry of Justice is the President of Republic 6. 6. 2017 notification that a candidate and two candidates have applied to the three places listed. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 6 of the Law, the President of the Republic forwarded the applications received to the Government and to the Council of Justice to identify themselves as candidates. The government is 29. 6. 2017 concluded that all three candidates were eligible. Council of Justice, which dealt with candidates at meetings 4. Seven. 2017, 13. Seven. 2017 and 28. 9. In 2017, he decided to give a positive opinion on Dr. Misa Zgonec Rožej's candidacy and assessed that the remaining candidates were not sufficient to meet the highest qualifications criteria in the specific legal field of international public law. The President of the Republic also consulted all parliamentary groups and decided on this basis to send all three candidates nominated to the National Assembly for election. The proposal also contains a justification or presentation of their current professional work. The President of the Republic adds that all three candidates are recognised legal experts and assesses that they are fit to serve as a member of the Permanent Court of Arbitration based in The Hague and therefore proposes them to the National Assembly for election. The meeting was attended by Ms Nataša Kovac, Secretary-General at the Office of the President of the Republic, who summarized the content of the proposal, Dr Marko Novak, President of the Council of Justice, who highlighted in particular the reasons for the negative position of the Council of Justice towards two candidates, and Tina Brecelj, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, who explained the Government's position on the proposed candidates. In a short discussion, a member of the members of the members' group, Levica, pointed out that they followed the opinion of the Council of Justice in the parliamentary group. On the other hand, the view was expressed that all three candidates were top legal experts, despite the concerns of the Council of Justice that the two candidates did not meet the highest qualifications criteria in the specific legal field of international public law. The Commission then adopted the following conclusions. The mandate-election committee shall propose to the National Assembly that the proposed candidate, Dr. Misa Zgonec Rožej, elect a member of the Permanent Arbitration Court based in The Hague, as well as to the National Assembly, propose that the proposed candidate, Dr. Sebastjan Zgonec Kobečnik, be elected as a member of the Permanent Court of Arbitration based in The Hague, and propose to the National Assembly that the proposed candidate, Dr. Yuri Toplak, be elected as a member of the Permanent Court of Arbitration based in The Hague. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u231	There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a vote on the Proposal for the election of three members of the Permanent Court of Arbitration based in The Hague. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 7 of the Law proposing candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts on the election of members of the Permanent Court of Arbitration established in The Hague, the National Assembly shall decide by secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the National Assembly. The representatives of the parliamentary groups have already forwarded me proposals for the members of the panel that leads the vote. These are: Dr. Mitja Horvat, Group of the Party of the Modern Centre, Mr. Franz Breznik, Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr. Ivan Hršak, Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, and Luka Mesec, Group of the Left. I am also a member of this Commission as Chairman. Ms Jernej Bergoč, Deputy Secretary-General, will also participate in the work of the Commission. Does anyone object to such a proposal for a commission? No, no, no. If not, we are moving on to a decision on the composition of the commission. We're voting. There were 66 Members and Members present, 59 votes against, 3 votes against. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, three votes will be delivered to Members and Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by their name and surname. It shall be voted on by the word pros or cons on each ballot. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled ballot shall be invalid. There is also an invalid voice from which the will of the Member or Member is not clearly visible. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 7 of the Law proposing candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts, each proposed candidate will be elected if the majority of all Members and Members vote for him or her is 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. Members and Members of Parliament will place the completed votes in the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. Members, please assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where you will take over the voting material. The vote will begin at 21:00 and 20 minutes and will last until 21:00 and 40 minutes. After the vote, I ask Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to meet you in room 217. I interrupt this agenda item and the meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed at 22 p.m. and 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u232	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We're continuing our session. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for the election of three members of the Permanent Court of Arbitration based in The Hague. Let me read three records. First, the minutes on the finding of the outcome of the vote on the proposal for the election of Dr. Misa Zgonec Rožej as a member of the Permanent Court of Arbitration based in The Hague. The vote was held at the Assembly premises on 19 October 2017. 71 ballots were distributed, 71 ballots were delivered, one ballot was invalid, and 70 votes were valid. There were 60 votes against. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Dr. Miš Zgonec Rožej was elected as a member of the Permanent Court of Arbitration based in The Hague by the majority of the votes of all Members. Minutes of the conclusion of the vote on the proposal for the election of Dr. Sebastián Collector as a member of the Permanent Court of Arbitration based in The Hague. The vote was held at the Assembly premises on 19 October 2017. 71 ballots were distributed, 71 ballots were delivered, 7 ballots were invalid, 64 votes were valid. There were 32 votes in favour, 32 against. The candidate, Dr. Sebastjan Collector, did not receive the majority of the votes of all Members and was therefore not elected as a member of the Permanent Court of Arbitration based in The Hague. There is also a record of the outcome of the vote on the proposal to elect Dr. Yuri Toplak as a member of the Permanent Court of Arbitration based in The Hague. The vote was held at the Assembly premises on 19 October 2017. 71 ballots were distributed, 71 ballots were delivered, five ballots were invalid, 66 were valid. There were 33 votes against. 33. The candidate, Dr Yuri Toplak, did not receive the majority of the votes of all Members, so he is not elected as a member of the Permanent Court of Arbitration based in The Hague. Dr. Miši Zgonec Rojej congratulations on your election. Since neither of the two candidates, Dr Sebastián Zbičnik and Dr Jurij Toplak, has received a sufficient number of votes from Members and Members, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 7 of the Law on the Proposal of Candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for Judges of International Courts, new elections are held on the basis of new nominations. Procedurally, Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen on the left, I don't mean the Left, but this part - honesty, is honesty valid? We supported the President-in-Office's proposal on the Commission's terms of reference in a way that we supported all the candidates. It was therefore understood to us that this would be the case in the National Assembly. Now it happens — what? It happens that people who study at Harvard fall. I'm talking about people who teach at Harvard being cut short by the State Council, who have members who haven't come to Trieste yet, but let's leave, that's another story. It was our duty to elect these three people, especially Mr Toplak and the Companioner, as well as the lady on the list. We stuck to what was on the Mandate-Villain Commission and we hit all the candidates. Ladies and gentlemen, what you've done is unfair. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u234	We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing two members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council – on the basis of the seventh indent of the sixth paragraph of Article 17 of the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision appointing Mr Marjan Dora and Mr Matej Weissenbach as a member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council pursuant to the seventh indent of Article 7 of the Radio Television Act of Slovenia, for the period until the end of the terms of office of the members appointed by the Decision of the National Assembly of 21. 4. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In doing so, I inform you that, under Article 7, paragraph 9, of the Radio Television Act, Slovenia will adopt a decision if the majority of all Members vote for it, i.e. 46 or more. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 16. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 16.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the Statistical Council of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision calling him a member of the Statistical Council of the Republic of Slovenia. Bojan Krajnc. His mandate starts at 24. Ten. 2017. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 50 votes in favour and 9 votes in favour. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision appointing a member of the selection committee to elect the suitable candidates for the appointment of a deputy or vice-president of the Commission for the prevention of corruption. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision appointing Dr Mitja Horvat as a member of the selection committee for the selection of suitable candidates for the appointment of a deputy or vice-president of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u235	Thank you very much. This vote, however, is public and will be visible. Despite the fact that we have decided to vote quorum in the parliamentary group, Mr Horvat is a member of this commission, that is, our fellow Member – I will personally support Mr Horvat. What my colleagues are going to do, I don't know, I think they're going to be supported by something to show you what is honesty that you've never been able to do for young experts before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-34.ana.u236	Peace in the hall! We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 61 votes in favour and 2 votes in favour. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 34th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. There are no votes tomorrow. Good night!
