ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 36th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Dr Jasna Murgel, Mr Primož Hainz, Mr Danilo Anton Ranc, Mr Ljubo Žnidar, Mag. Andrej Šircelj, Mr Marjan Dolinšek from 16:00 on, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, Mr Roberto Battelli, Mr Matjaž Hanžek, Mr Igor Zorčič until 15:00, Mr Saša Tabaković and Mr Tomaž Gantar. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government to the 1st item of the agenda, the State Council to the 13th and 15th items of the agenda and representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the agenda for the 36th meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Monday 4 December 2017 by reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of an item from the agenda or proposals for an extension of the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present and they have all voted in favour. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda for the 36th meeting of the assembly has been set. We move on to the 28th A-point of the agenda, which is to respond to the demands of the assembly of Members and Members, that the national assembly decide on the decision of the College of President of the National Assembly to propose a law on amendments and amendments to the law on the registration of immovable property, a summary procedure, defence after a reduced procedure At its 114th meeting, on 1 December 2017, the College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Real Estate Registration Act, submitted to the Assembly by the Government, should be considered following a reduced procedure. On the basis of the 10th paragraph of Article 21 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the group of 19 Members and Members, with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank, requested that the National Assembly decide on that decision of the College. I give the floor to the applicant's representative, Mr Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, President. Nice greetings to the Prime Minister, the ministerial team, colleagues and colleagues! As has already been said, the College of the President of the National Assembly decided at its 114th meeting that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Real Estate Registration Act should be considered following a reduced procedure. Ms Irena Majcen, Minister for Environment and Space, is the proposer of this law. The drafter of the law states among the main reasons for preparing the amendment to the Real Estate Registration Act that the novel provides better quality data on public records due to the mass valuation of real estate. I can add that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, of course, needs this information for later preparation and a dose of real estate tax, which is not so insignificant. The reduced procedure may be provided for in Article 142 of our Rules of Procedure for less difficult amendments and amendments to the law, for the termination of individual laws or provisions, for less difficult harmonisation of the law with other laws or laws of the European Union, and for amendments and additions to the law relating to proceedings before the Constitutional Court or to a decision of the Constitutional Court. When we look at this law, it makes quite a difference. Those who have looked at the law will realize that there are not so few changes. It is the amendment of 36 articles of the existing law. It is an infringement of the rights of property owners, which have already been established in the past and are substantially changing with this law. On this basis, it is somewhat inappropriate for the Government to propose a reduced procedure. We have often met with a reduced procedure in this mandate, many times on the part of the Ministry of Environment's proposer and the place where we have it, you will probably agree with a few bad experiences with the fact that we have reduced procedures. That is why we have already in the Constitutional Court the detention of individual articles under the Construction of Buildings Act. We also have a lot of problems with other laws that have been passed, not all by a reduced procedure, but by the same motioner, this is the Ministry of Environment and Space, which is a series of proposals for laws right in the last part of the mandate and we have not considered any law in practice for 3 years. Remember the Funeral and Funeral Activities Act and the Smoker Service Act, where the Ministry has not yet processed any sub-legal acts, and the matter is causing a lot of problems in implementing itself. From this point of view, it is unacceptable to adopt such important laws as the Property Registration Act, following a reduced procedure. At the beginning of the term of office, this government and this coalition have consistently referred to some new practice, ethics and also to the adoption of laws after some regular procedure at least when no need exists. The title of the law itself – registering real estate, does not impose any necessity. Therefore, in our Group of Members, we propose that the procedure for enacting the law after a reduced procedure be re-decisiond and decided on by the National Assembly. However, I appeal to you Members to stop this shortening of proceedings once and for all, and thus to enact bad laws that in practice cause a lot of problems, and not least, many articles are ultimately decided by the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u3	There is no discussion and no explanation for this request. We're moving on to decision-making. I propose to the assembly that it decide on the following decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the property registration law shall be dealt with in a simplified procedure. If no decision is taken, the National Assembly will consider the draft law on a regular basis. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 29. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 29.]] I note that the decision has been taken and that the assembly will therefore consider that proposal in the short term. I hereby conclude the 28th item of the agenda. Procedurally, Mr. Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, my procedural question is as follows. As President of the National Assembly on 25 September 2017, you forwarded my written question to the Government regarding the issue of ordering various analyses, studies, tasks and similar matters to external contractors. The fact is, under this government of analysis, studies for external operators have literally exploded. The deadline for the Government to respond was 25 October 2017. To this day, 11. 12. 2017, by twelve o’clock I had not received an answer as to how much of the funds were administered. Therefore, as President of the National Assembly, I ask you to appeal to the President of the Government to the Secretary-General to give me this answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u5	On official duty, of course, I will. We're moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY — QUESTIONS FROM MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 29 questions from the Member States in writing within the time limit. The order of business shall be laid down in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. On this point they apologized for today: Mr Karel Erjavec, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mag. Dejan Židan, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Mr Zdravko Restovalšek, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mag. Goran Klemenčič, Minister of Justice, and Mrs Irena Majcen, Minister of Environment and Space, who will be absent from 3 p.m. An e-club provides an overview of the questions sent by the Member States, which were not answered within the time limit. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first four questions will be answered by the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Miro Cerar. The Magnificent Messenger. Matthew Tonin, you have the floor to ask the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u6	President of the National Assembly, President of the Government, Minister, Ministers, Members, Members, good afternoon! The Slovenian school system is comparatively good with other countries. Otherwise, there is always a chance to improve it, especially at the moment that there are broken relationships among employees, that violence will increase and what else could be mentioned. But the key thing that seems to me that our school system is good is that it's accessible to the widest circle of people. That's the most important thing. If you open the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, you can read in Article 57 that primary education is compulsory and financed by public funds. We have two different schools that carry out primary schooling. We have state schools on the one hand and we have private schools on the other side. Both are public because all students can be enrolled in these two different schools. What's the difference? The difference is that public schools were built by the state or by the congregation and by private schools. The Constitutional Court has already decided on 4 December 2014 that private schools also have 100 % of the funding for the implementation of a public programme. Therefore, the State is obliged to finance what it itself has prescribed as a compulsory programme. To go to this place and just before the SD and Desus elections, ideological war is still in some way understandable, given their electoral base. But it is difficult to understand in this matter that the SMC has joined this ideological holy war only because of the six private primary schools and because of the 300 000 euros a year in the game. Of course, these things seem to appeal to you that the state should finance something in private schools that is not financed by the state. But once again I say very clearly, we are talking only and only about what the state is funding in public schools, the same programme implemented by private schools would be financed by the state. So it's exclusively about funding the programme, from a country recognised, not financing infrastructure, buildings and the like. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! Once upon a time, this is April 19th, you said you were sad and unhappy because the Constitutional Court decision was still not implemented. How do you imagine it will come true? In what way?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u7	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u8	Dear Member of the Mags. Matthew Tonin, thank you for your question! First of all, let me make it very clear that, as Prime Minister of the Government, I have done everything possible to make this decision of the Constitutional Court relating to the financing of private schools in relation to the public programme a reality. It was not easy, for already in the coalition opinions were different, but with the ruling party, with the largest in the coalition, with its Modern Centre Party – SMC achieved that we succeeded, as the Ministry of Education prepared and then the Government adopted, in sending to the National Assembly a proposal for a law on the organisation and financing of education and education, i.e. a proposal for a law that regulated this matter as required by the Constitutional Court. That was the government's reaction I'm running. When you received the law here, it was not possible to reach a sufficient majority from here on in order to enforce this law. Let me make it very clear once again, this law, which we have sent to the National Assembly, is implementing the Constitutional Court's decision, which is absolutely necessary to do, and it is important to protect Slovenian public education. What else does this law provide? Let me say that it is not just that decision of the Constitutional Court, it is an additional matter which is of paramount importance to our public education. It introduces important new guardians in the establishment of new private schools of different quality and guidance in order not to set up a school that does not meet appropriate criteria that may be extremist or similar. The law eliminates automatism in financing. It sharpens the conditions that schools have to meet to obtain funding rights from public funds. It introduces the possibility of withdrawing public service and gives greater emphasis to the quality of public education. I have always tried, and I am also working with this government to achieve the highest possible quality public education. That is why we need this law to be further improved, knowing, as you said, that this education is already very quality, which it is also recognised in the international space. Of course, at least in the Modern Centre Party, which you have named, which I run and here was the engine of this bill, we also advocate that some very appropriate, useful addition to public education is a private education which must enrich our school space. That is why we take care of the school space as far as it is within our jurisdiction. Now back to the story. When the draft law was tabled, as was the case with the Constitutional Decision, there was not enough consensus in the National Assembly, either on the one hand or on the other. This is where the Modern Centre Party, which followed the Constitutional Court's decision, remained lonely, could not gather enough votes to go to the next stage of the law. That is why the Modern Centre Party agreed to the Desus Amendment, which was a necessary compromise to bring the law into the next phase. However, we continue to advocate, as always, for a constitutionally coherent solution and one that will benefit public education, as I said, and will not exacerbate the situation in the area of private education. For it is also a treasure that we must protect within given constitutional and legal frameworks. Therefore, we are now proposing a compromise proposal, one which is constitutionally consistent and acceptable in all these aspects. Therefore, the SMC Group of Members and Members added that, in addition to providing funding for public programmes for 100 % of private schools, an extended programme is financed by an additional 65 %, without prejudice to already acquired rights arising from the existing private school funding system. I hope, Mr Tonin, that this time you, too, will be your party, constructive and will support this proposal to get a constitutional solution that does not aggravate the situation in private education, but helps to improve quality public education and, as you said yourself, does not cause any ideological struggle. We cannot afford to argue ideologically with the Slovenians at this point, because we do not need this because we have a solution on the table and we can take our education in a constructive manner, both in public and in private. This is how I appeal to all members of the National Assembly to support this amendment, which we have proposed by the Modern Centre Party. As a matter of fact, from the point of view of the government, I've already done what I can. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u9	The Magnificent Messenger. Matthew Tonin, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u10	Dear Prime Minister, I must admit that I have had a much higher expectation of you as a constitutional lawyer and as Prime Minister of the Government. If you look only at the previous mandate, you will see that your client and our client have managed to carry out at least one major project together, which will also mark Slovenia. I regret that you are willing to compromise on this financing of primary schools simply because of the political account and nothing else. This decision of the Constitutional Court can be very easily implemented. There are enough votes in this National Assembly to make this happen. And that, Mr President of the Government, your party, SDS and Nova Slovenija can handle these matters without any major difficulty. But you have agreed to a dangerous game of neo-socialists who now claim that what the state has prescribed cannot pay very clearly. And what you've been saying about what all marriage brings, great, we also agree to very clearly lay down rules, when a program can be given public validity. That's great. This also means that some private schools will not be able to establish themselves with public effect because the state will distribute these things. Another very interesting story has opened up here: a mandatory extended programme. Neo-socialists are trying to show that it is an extended programme as a special feature of private schools. But it's about morning protection, afternoon protection, study aid, supplemental education. And now, Prime Minister, I ask you: Why should socially weaker students no longer attend private schools? If the neo-socialist issue is adopted, we will in fact prevent socially weak individuals from attending such schools. If there was any specificity of the Slovenian school system, the fact that private schools were accessible to the widest range of people was also the case. Why do you in such a way prevent the most socially weak?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u11	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u12	Let me make it very clear right now that you're very much deceiving the public. You're also telling the truth, I'm sorry. First of all, let me make it very clear to you that what the Modern Centre Party proposes, which I am defending, is absolutely not a rotten constitutional compromise, but is a constitutionally consistent solution, which means avoiding what you and someone else want, so that the Slovenians can fight again to be in conflict, and that is where it is absolutely not necessary, because our schools are functioning well and only need clear criteria and incentives to move forward. What you are proposing is that the country would fund 100 percent of private schools in all aspects, in the public programme and so on. [[advertising from the hall]] Even if it is not true, what we are proposing is constitutionally consistent, it is a good compromise, it preserves the level of rights acquired so far and it is not at all controversial. But you are not constructive because you want this fight because you think you will get political points for it; maybe you will, but at the expense of our school space, at the expense of going Slovenia harder because we will argue about what we don't need. I can tell you something – I don't believe that the socially weak children will be deprived of a quality school program, one or the other. There's room for every child in our country, and that's how it's gonna stay. Please don't be so demagogic that you cheat with such threatening information. Some fear you try to create among people, which is not really necessary. Therefore, once again, all Members of Parliament and Members, support the compromise proposal we have proposed for the benefit of our schools, both public and private, and for the benefit of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u13	The Magnificent Messenger. Matthew Tonin, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u14	Of course, I propose a debate. President of the government, I don't know you like this. I think you really got carried away at this point. And if anyone was cheating, then at this point, you were deceiving. Let's do it in order. That we are saying that the country will now have to finance all private schools long and early. Come on, please! The state will not finance infrastructure, not construction, not heating, not investment. All of this will continue on the shoulders of private primary schools; a significant difference. You claim that the state will now fund all private schools. That is not true, we are talking about financing only those who have a public programme. This public programme is determined by the State. We are therefore discussing that the State should finance what it itself prescribes and which is enshrined in the Constitution that it is mandatory. So where are we deceiving, Prime Minister? We're not deceiving. And you've agreed to a dirty ideological game because of your political voice, too, because you've estimated that it's worth it at this point. The fact is, if you look at specific data, how many people today, say in the Ljubljana private school of Montessori, get free food, this percentage is 54%. Free diets are not likely to be given to the rich, but rather to the socially weak. And by taking funding from these schools, you will prevent these people from continuing to attend these schools. This was the greatest feature and good feature of the Slovenian school system, that the school system was as wide as possible. By what you want now – and I really don't understand the neo-socialists – is that they want to make private schools elitist. Because the adoption of your marriage will mean that private schools will only be able to attend rich ones. In Novi Slovenija we strongly oppose this. And one more thing. Do you know what is underestimating to extremes for the Slovenian people? When it comes to six private Slovenian schools, 300,000 euros is a problem, but when it comes to a Russian school that comes to the Slovenian coast, 500 000 euros is not a problem. Does that seem fair to you? Do you think that's right? And to all the deceptions that neo-socialists are now adding, there is today another fact that private primary schools do not have children with special needs. That's not true! What the former Minister Pikalo wrote is not true. Go to these elementary schools and see that they have children with special needs. Be reasonable and do not mislead the public over EUR 300,000 a year. I think it is imperative that the debate be held.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u15	The Magnificent Messenger. Matthew Tonin, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 12 December 2017, in the framework of the votes. Ambassador Bojan Dobovšek, you have the floor to question the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u16	Thank you. All those who accompany this meeting are respected! I am asking the President of the Government a question regarding the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank. We know that sales have been going on for a long time, and now it's an opportunity to finally figure out how this is going to happen. We have an emergency sale and we have the asymmetry of information. The government has had three years to fulfil the commitment, and the Commissioner has warned us this week that this commitment has not been fulfilled or that it has decided not to sell the bank and accept the consequences. She opted for a third option — Noah’s tactics, a push of her head to the sand, and waiting for the mandate to pass. At that time, commitments were made that the bank would sell itself to postpone the sale until, at the final stage, an extraordinary administration arrived at the bank. On the one hand, the European Commission is deceiving to sell the bank and on the other hand to the public that the bank will not be sold. We have shown that the sale has been delayed — for how long, how, in what way, this is not explained. Whether this postponement makes the price of the bank lower and what will happen to Slovenia's reputation, this is not clarified. I'm interested in this delay and because of these changes: How do you define this resale, and what will be the obligations? And, of course, as a result: Do you have any expert analysis on why the sale will be better in three years? I'd like you to introduce them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u17	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u18	Dear Member, Dr. Bojan Dobovšek! Let me first again explain why this year there was an establishment in relation to the sale process for the New Ljubljana Bank. In the period from January to May 2017, this is said to have been the case at the beginning of this year, taking into account the position of the Financial Adviser for Sale, which said very clearly that the risks involved in the sale are virtually not that the foreign exchange deposits transferred by Croatian savers do not constitute any risk, nor do any obstacles to the successful execution of the sales procedure. Then, in May, this external financial advisor suddenly changed his position and assessed that the sales process could not be successfully completed if the risk of transfer of foreign exchange deposits in Croatia was not eliminated, as the purchase would be significantly lower, etc. This risk was estimated at between €350 million and €400 million. Therefore, the government decided not to continue the sale, as it would mean, and this is very important, the injury of taxpayers. Taking this into account, we can say that the market situation was quite favourable in the spring window, but if, in spite of the good economic situation, the bank was then sold to me, taxpayers who contributed their funds to recapitalise the bank would be harmed by this risk for a large amount. By the way, let me repeat my position before I proceed. I would never have taken such a commitment to sell the bank or its subsidiaries to other republics, but with this government I had to adopt the framework of commitments adopted by the former. Now, after these commitments, we try to act or change them if we can. I can say with regard to market developments that the market situation is still improving and the key macroeconomic indicators for the next two years are stable, giving the basis for thinking that the market situation will remain favourable for sale even later if it occurs. After the Government's June decision, however, we immediately launched actions to change the commitments made by the previous government, which would be in the spirit of these commitments, but would lead to another goal which would preserve the New Ljubljana Bank as a strong regional bank. This is our main objective for this bank to remain strong, active, active and that taxpayers will not be harmed. On the basis of these intense negotiations, it is acceptable for our party, if it is already necessary to sell, for the Slovenian side to be able to recover the funds invested in the recapitalisation by selling the State's ownership stake in the NLB to the maximum extent possible, and for NLB to maintain dependent banking companies in the region of South-Eastern Europe and thus the status of an important regional banking group. The last government proposal still under negotiation now relates to the appointment of a management trustee to manage the State's ownership stake in NLB until that share is reduced to a maximum of 25 % plus 1 share. In parallel with this proposal, we expect the European Commission to agree to a reasonable extension of the time limit for sale. In view of all that I have said, there is some claim of any irresponsible transfer of this issue to a new government or the postponement of it is not in place. On the contrary. We are very responsible and very careful, for if we did otherwise, we would again harm our taxpayers, affect the bank, and people would suffer again as a result of a lower purchase for the equity. Let me stress that our Government's efforts to postpone the sale of NLB do not mean that the new government would not be able to take a different decision and sell the bank before the expiry of this period, but that the new government, if this comes, will have to do the same as we do in the responsible and in the interest of the Republic of Slovenia and take into account all the objective circumstances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u19	Ambassador Bojan Dobovšek, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u20	Thank you. Now you've made your point. This postponement reduces the price and reputation of Slovenia. If we look at the indicators, Slovenia has abnormally high economic growth, and at the same time you are in the process that we have the custodian of Umar, who somehow represents this economic growth. With what is happening in Nova Ljubljanska banka, you said 300 million damage would be caused by Croatian savers. So tell me: How much does this consultant and other advisors cost? How much are we paying now? We need to know that we have a threesome in the bank, we have a representative of a Dutch-Swiss company representing the European Commission, we have a representative of the European Central Bank and now this new one. How much do these people cost together, and how much were the contracts of all these advisors you've been telling you about not selling the bank? I think it'll be close to 300 million. Everything that is happening around the New Ljubljana Bank is lowering the price: unrealistic approaches, changing approaches and the impression the European Commission receives on Slovenia, how much we respect commitments. Of course, what is happening on the market is important. And what you're saying all the time, you're blaming the previous government for how you got the situation, and now you're doing the same thing yourself. But we have a commitment in SDH to sell our strategic investments. Please answer these questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u21	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u22	Thank you very much. First of all, let's not put our heads in the sand. If we were to press them, we would not negotiate so intensely for at least the last six months, and we would not continue to monitor this issue so intensely. Secondly, you say that the price goes down, that this is the essence of my claim. I don't know, I read my claim just in case and it was completely different. I have read that key macroeconomic indicators for the next two years are stable, that the market situation has improved and that, in fact, the market situation for sales will remain at least at the current level if they are not better. So you totally misunderstood me because I said otherwise. I said it would still be nice to sell the bank later if the sale was to be made. How much do counselors cost? I don't know where you got this information from. They're paid by the bank, not by the state. And secondly, you were talking about 300 million. I don't know how you get your fees when you advise, but these fees aren't normal. So I won't even comment on it. This 350 to 400 million is a huge amount that our country and our taxpayers would suffer if the government were to unwittingly drag it off into this sale, give it a green light, and then we would really have something to talk about on purpose. I don't throw up guilt on things, and then I do the same thing myself. On the contrary. I'm trying to fix it, improve it as much as I can. This is why we are negotiating a change of commitments, which are indeed such that they are very difficult. This government is trying to fix the situation. I'm not saying that it was an easy decision from the previous or previous governments that led to this. It was certainly a financial crisis, things were getting worse and something had to be done. But I said I wouldn't make that decision. Now that it has been adopted, when it has to be implemented, we are doing so with the utmost care. That is why we are negotiating, trying to make appropriate changes to our commitments, in order to benefit the New Ljubljana Bank and its branches, all of this is working together well, and not again to the detriment of our taxpayers. That's what I wanted to add. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u23	Ambassador Bojan Dobovšek, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u24	Given that we have not received the right answers, given that we see that the problem is very pressing, I expect that we will have a broad debate at the next meeting on the issue of the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank. As far as the profits are concerned, we know that I was working on my own behalf and on behalf of the faculty, and you were working on behalf of your company, and that's an essential difference. As far as the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank is concerned. You didn't take a clear position and stand before Europe so we wouldn't sell. But you decided to sell on the next one, so you haven't done anything in three years. Disposal alone means a deterioration of the situation in the bank. And if the bank pays these advisors, the price of the bank goes down, the trust goes down. Just saying good economic results will not be enough, because we know that the economy is on cycles, that we are now at the top, most in Europe, although, given what is going on in Umar, I am also asking myself this question. The cycle of how you expect it to be better in three years, you didn't give me this information, just some information about what you have, a proposal that it will, and some data that will increase GDP. What we do know about global trends and what happens to bitcoin is not so predictable. That is why I expect that we will hold a debate, because the matter is unclear.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u25	Ambassador Bojan Dobovšek, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 11 December 2017, in the framework of the votes. Ambassador, Dr. Vinko Gorenak, you have the floor to ask the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Dear President of the Government, I have also prepared my question in PowerPoint form, because I think the graphs and all the other things are more visual, so I invite you to take a look. My question concerns the number of employees in the public administration, in the public administration, of course also with the funds for their salaries and the impact on the state of public finances. Allow me to speak in the first part about the number of employees in the state and public administration. However, in order to first sweep before my threshold or show you some of the numbers from the time of Janša’s first government, I invite you to take a look at this slide. See, it has a relatively clear period of 2004-2008 or 2005-2008, when the period of so-called fat cows was, if you want, or when there was no lack of money. However, the first Janša government has set itself a very clear objective of reducing the number of employees despite such financial and economic conditions, which may have seemed unusual at that time, but we have assessed that this is necessary at the time. If we look at the figures, from 2005 to 2008, the number of employees was reduced by at least 900. We're talking about a narrower part of the government. But if we look at the situation a little further, we'll go to the time of your government, and we'll figure out the following. From 2014 onwards, a few months before you accepted the cases, until 2017, month 10, the situation of employees in the state administration when we are talking about the period of recession, except in 2017, is relatively clear. If we look at these numbers here, we'll see that we get about 8,000, I'll highlight 8,000. That's an incredible number. All the data on these slides is from Mr. Koprivnik, who is nodding, but I did copy-paste. And then we have the next one with your numbers. On the next slide we can see an increase of 94% in the Ministry of Public Administration, 31% in the Ministry of Health, 22% in infrastructure and 22% in government service. Next slide, this one's a copy paste. This is in fact your slide, which shows very clearly that at the time of your government after two methodologies, after hours and by means of means that we are on the clear, the number of employees is increasing strongly, by the second methodology by just 8 thousand 285. In this regard, I ask you: What are the reasons, what is the rise, what is the situation? [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u27	I'm going to put my word forward, but I'm going to find out that the public should be both comparisons if we really want to compare. The President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Miro Cerar, has the floor for reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u28	Thank you very much. I've also noticed that the data is a little mixed up, but okay, I'm going to answer the question like this. In the public administration, the actual number of employees increased by around 6 % over the period 2014-2017. Why? Because we have very increased activities in the field of health, social protection and in particular education and education. The increased volume of public services, in particular health and social services, is linked to ageing of the population, due to increased human disease, the rapid development of medical technologies that require new specialists, additional programmes to eliminate waiting periods that have accumulated, more assistance for older people and assistance at home and so on. Secondly, compliance with standards and standards has been taken into account here, as the number of children is increasing from year to year. Generations now leaving school, with 18,000 students, are coming in generations with a few thousand, for example 21 thousand 500 students. So together this year there are only 183 additional departments established in primary school according to last year. Since there are more children, it is necessary to have more departments and more employees, otherwise the school will stop. Then we have an increased scope of tasks due to development projects financed from EU funds and from the sale of goods and services on the market. So this is the public sector. However, as regards the state administration, the increase in the number of employees occurred only in individual bodies and the total number of employees in the state administration is on 1 January. 11. 2017 in the period of this Government is less than 0,5 %. It is said that we are from 2014 to 1. 11. 2017, in view of the start of the mandate, the national administration reduced the total staff by 0.51%. During the period 2014-2017, there was also an increase in the volume of wage allocations for public sector employees, which is mainly affected by the release of austerity measures after years of severe crisis, such as the release of advances to wage classes and the names and release of salary scales. In addition, in 2016, the volume of wage funds increased by 5,4 %, and the increase in wages was also recorded in 2017, with the impact of the 2016 abrogation of the anomalies in addition to the impact of the released advances. All these positive processes are said to be adopted after the crisis when they have not been implemented. Above all, the current growth in wages has been influenced by the realisation of commitments made by previous governments with public sector unions since 2009 and thus have been able to save about €1.5 billion in public finances during the period of crisis. That's getting better now. However, let me make it very clear that, despite the increase in wages throughout the public sector, as has been found, this growth remains within the framework that ensures us to pursue the objective of consolidating public finances and addressing the budgetary deficit. Let's not forget, we have overturned the budget deficit in these years. Next year we go to surplus for the first time, taking into account here also the maximum permissible expenditure limit, as derived from the fiscal rule. We are therefore aware in the Government that, on the one hand, favourable economic growth must also work in the sphere of greater economic power of the population. We have to give some of this to people. At the same time, we are influencing social development, and we are positively promoting consumption. On the other hand, as a ruling policy, we are concerned about long-term public financial stability. We'll insist on that. All of these processes are within the framework of sustainability, within the framework of an imaginary plan that preserves economic growth. It gives as many people as possible, but at the same time we remain sufficiently cost-effective to respect the fiscal rule and move forward as a good host in public finances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u29	Member of Parliament, Dr. Vinko Gorenak, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the response.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u30	President, you won't have any trouble from the National Assembly. The number on the public sector 48 is also known, about 2 000 is this number, for similar reasons as stated by the President of the Government during this period. Otherwise, let's go to a lot of pay. This first slide shows you the movement of the mass of wages from 1992 to 2016. I would like to point out that, in the period 2004-2008, it is not, I stress, President of the Government, that it is not so much going on, in a small part, but not entirely, to increase wages due to the number of employees, but rather to the growth of wages. Real salary growth between 2004 and 2008 is 25%, including mine and yours, Prime Minister of the Government, during that period. On average, we're on the clear side. I'm talking about average numbers. If we look at the next slide, you will find that the gross wage mass in the public sector is in the period since we took over the second government, the effects have also worked during the Brotherhood, such as it has declined. At the time of your government there is an 11.3% increase according to Mr Koprivnik, and I agree with you that part of this percentage is at the expense of all these cancellations of the anomalies, as you have talked about, etc. But what I need to say is that I'm not interested in what's actually important is how much is at the expense of removing Zuyf, but the problem is the 8 000. For those 8,000 on the next slide, we can see that from 2011 to 2016, especially if you compare the period 2014-2017, you will find that there is a very obvious difference, about which a little later. On the next slide, you can see a narrower state administration where the salary in your mandate has risen from 52 million to 59 million. The following shows the same thing graphically, but 374 million are problematic. What's this all about? This is the difference in the public sector [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u31	Time. Please, let's stick to the time limit. President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u32	Thank you very much. I've presented the data, so I won't repeat it. But let me say what's very important. During the term of office of our government, the state administration has so far had a number of savings. We are improving the quality of the work of the state administration and we are expanding as much as necessary, and I must repeat this, because of health, social aspects, the development aspects of the part of the public administration that we urgently need. Should children be left without teachers or should the elderly be left without care? Of course, there are some new jobs to be done here, but our government has created the conditions that we can, I will say, but give people sustainable new jobs, which reduces unemployment, increases public well-being. If we have eliminated the anomalies in wages and can make progress, this is positive if this is within the limits of sustainability. That's the point. And we remain within the limits of the sustainability of public finances. At the same time, the economy is getting better and better. We are encouraging the economy, and employment is increasing there too. Things are going better with all the indicators. So you have to have some balance in front of the whole country. In public administration, we have this in front of us, we do not exaggerate, but we provide emergency services and programmes and we increase their quality and increase savings, we introduce digitisation wherever possible. And we will continue these modern processes. If we had time now to present our graphs, we would see that we are going in the right direction, and we will continue to do so. Of course, we must not afford to employ where it is not necessary to reduce in any way this necessary volume of public finances, which we must respect and be a good master here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u33	Ambassador Vinko Gorenak, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u34	Thank you very much. I didn't get part of the answers. I think that is clear, and that is why I must request a debate. I still don't know why the 94% increase in employees in the Ministry of Public Administration is. I asked that question. There was no answer. Why a 31% increase in the number of employees in health care, why a 22% increase in the number of employees in infrastructure, why a 22% increase in government services; there I imagine and have part of the answer that this is a transfer from internal affairs. I don't know what you've been up to. Otherwise, Prime Minister, look, you have to say the next thing. I can agree with you that in the area of social, for example, nursing homes, I can agree with you that we will not be able to downgrade there and that every government there will have to increase something. This is a relatively clear story because of the structure of the population. In the field of education, no one will ever convince me of this again. The minister should lower the criteria when we went to school, there were 35 of us in the class, and now there are 18 or 19 or 20 of us. If you go to 22, you will see that all of a sudden teachers will be enough, and this will not make quality any worse. That's one thing. And the other thing is payback. 274 million was the monthly mass for public sector wages and now 306, this is the period of your mandate. This is 31 000 euros per month or 374 million per year. I agree with you that half of this – what you said – can be related to the elimination of differences, but there are still 8 thousand employees too. And these 8,000 employees take half of the following data. For this money you can make 180 kindergartens, half of which on account of 8,000 employees. You can buy 3,000 700 apartments for Solomon, can't you, Madam Secretary, say, half of that there. For this reason you can build 9 medical colleges in Maribor, you can build 48 kilometers of highway at Slovenian prices and in German once more, you can buy 233 thousand cars. Place them in a column between Maribor and Kopro – standing column, average car, so the minister will not count there, €16 000 – and you will see that you come from Maribor to Kopra in the standing column. I would like to point out that half of this is at the expense of 8,000 new jobs. This is too much, so I propose a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u35	Ambassador Vinko Gorenak, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 12 December 2017, in the framework of the votes. Ambassador Benedict Kopmajer, you have the floor to question the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u36	Honourable President of the National Assembly, President of the Government, Ministerial Assembly, Colleagues and Colleagues! Much dissatisfaction between coalition partners, the public and trade unions has raised the adoption of a regulation on directors' salaries in the public sector. Let me remind you, in mid-November, you withdrew the regulation from the Government's agenda due to opposition from coalition partners and then adopted it 14 days later. The adoption of a regulation by which you remunerated the salaries of those who had already been paid better, namely, for 2 000 400 directors and directors of public institutions, we strongly opposed Desus. Certainly, such a course is a poor journey for the remainder of the term of office. The opinions of the coalition partners were simply not taken into account and only by the votes of the SMC ministers voted to raise salaries for the already privileged groups of public servants. However, you have clearly forgotten that the system of evaluation of jobs should be looked at in a comprehensive and equal manner for all civil servants. It is no wonder that most employees in the public sector feel played, unheard of. It is not surprising that in the Syndicate the education, education, science and culture of Slovenia are already predicting the sentence. It is quite obvious that you will be forced to face the growing trend of large appetites by the end of your term of office, which is a big deal. However, these are definitely wrong priorities under the cover of economic growth recovery. Let's stop fooling around. Doma's effect was relaxed when the agreement was signed with the FIDES trade union, worth around EUR 50 million. When the agreement was confirmed with doctors and dentists, the question was where you would get the money. In the eyes of ministers, I quote: "These obligations will not be covered by the state budget, but by the health treasury." That's what Finance Minister Matthew Vrančnik Erman said. Again, I quote: “The health department currently has no resources available.” Only a few minutes later said Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister of Health. As it is said, it is not surprising that other representatives of public sector unions have made their dissatisfaction clear. Dear Prime Minister, I ask you: Do you not feel that by such measures as raising the salaries of directors of public institutions, you are disturbing society in particular on the trade union side? Do you not think that the only right approach to eliminating anomalies in the pay system of public servants would be comprehensive and packaged treatment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u37	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u38	Dear Member, Mr Benedict Kopmeyer! No, I think that no one who advocated a corrective approach to public officials who advocated the elimination of injustices and anomalies could cause unrest unless they were misinformed. It is true that there has been a rift in opinions between coalition partners and I have been very patient in having discussions to come up with a common solution, but on Desus and SD even after weeks there was no hearing for a solution that was then adopted because it was necessary. It is also a matter of anomalies in the evaluation of the posts of directors that are said to be directors and other directors of public institutions, injustices or disproportionates, which were not addressed at the same time as the abolition of abnormalities in the evaluation of other public sector jobs. However, at the beginning of the negotiations for the elimination of salary anomalies, we recognised all together, all partners, both the government and the unions, that the greatest imbalances and injustices exist in two groups: in the J Group – these are the lowest paid ones, we have already taken care of them, and in the B Group – in the directors and directors. The directors are placed in the pay grade on the basis of a regulation that is not subject to negotiations between trade unions and the Government, but is subject to coordination within the framework of an inter-ministerial working group to eliminate anomalies. Therefore, the abolition of the anomaly in the evaluation of directors' jobs was separate from the trade union and government negotiations on the abolition of job-assessment abnormalities in other pay groups. The agreement did not set out in 2016 that anomalies must be eliminated in the evaluation of directors’ jobs at the same time as all pay groups. Even some trade unions, such as the SVIZ, have raised the question at the central negotiations why the government has not yet eliminated the anomaly, including with directors as part of the directors, and have called on the Government to do so as soon as possible. It is said that this request was also made by the unions themselves. The regulation we have drawn up has been co-ordinated in the government. It was commented on by three unions, but these were substantive comments, and only one union did not approve the adoption of the regulation before the payment anomaly was eliminated in all the remaining groups. Let me point out that directors entered the new salary system in 2006, which is more than two years before all the other public officials who could have chosen a more favourable position as a result of this delay in comparison with directors. In practice, therefore, public servants were paid even higher than the director who was in charge and, of course, whose responsibility was inadequately higher. Thus, in some cases they were better paid than directors, which is simply not correct. Time dimension. We have waited for two things through the public sector's wage regulation. First, until the complete removal of the anomalies to the 26th pay grade, there is group J, the lowest paid ones, we took care of them first. Then we waited until the final offer for the total elimination of the payment anomalies, which was confirmed at the same meeting of the Government as this Regulation was adopted, is 30. 11. 2017. Therefore, we cannot bear this observation that we have first taken care to raise wages for those who have already been paid better, but we have abolished some injustice for both category B and directors, as well as the lowest, to eliminate this anomaly to the 26th pay grade. The wage imbalances in the evaluation of the jobs of directors in the public sector have been recognised, to be repeated, since the start of the negotiations and their abolition has been a matter of consensus. We eliminate them between the last and the minimum, on average for 1.64 pay grade, they are only making progress, i.e. at a minimum level compared to the other pay groups. So I believe that the Government here has adopted the right solution, but unfortunately in this case this solution has not been unanimously supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u39	Ambassador Benedict Kopmajer, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the response.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Dear President, I repeat my question, which, I think, is quite correct and on the spot: How will you ensure social peace in the face of the tensions brought by the upcoming elections? Do you find it appropriate to compare the salaries of directors of public institutions with pensions? The fact that he has no objection is that we cannot avoid the trend of an increasing number of older populations. This trend must also be followed by a public financial framework, and because of the fiscal rule adopted, it is not an easy task. Remember that higher economic growth has not eliminated poverty among citizens. Last year alone, 83,000 pensioners lived below the poverty risk threshold, of which 54% of pensioners receive up to €600. Is this appropriate for a decent standard of living? Pensioners deserve this, and since they are still a vulnerable category of the population, it is right to begin to share the fruits of the recovery of the country's economy among those who need it most. I have to re-emphasize. The pension is not a social transfer, but a work-earned right of individuals. This is how it starts — from bottom to top. Well, at least in the Desus Group we think it's the right thing to do. It is precisely because of the regulation adopted that, Madam President, it is quite obvious that your priorities are not the same as ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u41	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the reply. May I have peace in the hall?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u42	You are right, Mr Desus, the SMC's priorities are not in all respects the same as yours, but as for pensioners and all those who find it difficult in this society, they are certainly at least the same, because we are striving for the same things as you are now saying. No decision in favour of pensioners in this mandate, and even now and in the future in this government, could be taken without the SMC. SMC has always made every decision. Let me point out that after the years when there was no reconciliation of pensions, there was more harmonisation in our government: in 2016, 2 times, 2017 and 2018, we will coordinate pensions twice, by 2.4% at the beginning of the year and by 1% in April. So we're coordinating pensions. The annual allowance was received by around 24 % more people than in 2014. It was similar in 2016. In 2017, all beneficiaries of pensions and disability benefits received the supplement, which has not been a practice at all. As a leading party in the government, as well as in the National Assembly, you are the Party of the Modern Centre, SMC, still working for the pensioners under the government, which we lead along with you and the coalition SD. Thus, we have taken all these decisions together for the benefit of our pensioners, and we are still working for them. Unfortunately, the rate of poverty is declining slowly. It's going down. The data suggests it's decreasing, but slowly. But that is why we are working to make economic growth, that there will be jobs, that society will progress, that the country will be a good host, so that we can continue to coordinate pensions. This is what we want in the ruling SMC government party, as you probably do. We will insist on doing so, and therefore I think there is no reason for us to go in several different directions here. We're heading in the exact same direction. Only we, SMC, are very serious about this, too, always making sure that we do not disrupt the public finances system. But if we bring this down, then one year from now not only will the pensioners not have enough, but everyone else will suffer the damage and the country will go back to those times of crisis from which we have barely pulled this society out of these three years. I hope that we will continue this way, so in a positive direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u43	I thank the Prime Minister for his answers. In accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we turn to the questions raised at the 35th meeting of the National Assembly. First, the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Dr. Anja Kopač Dark, will answer Dr. Jazna Murgel's question about the appendix for blind children with special needs.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u44	Thank you, Mr. President of the National Assembly for your word. Dear Members and Members! Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for the question. The Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits provides that the child’s allowance is a monetary allowance for a child who needs special care and protection and is intended to cover the increased living costs incurred by the family in the maintenance and care of such a child. The amount of the child care allowance due to the increased cost of living is EUR 100 per month, for children with severe or functional difficulties in mental development or for children with certain diseases from the list of severe diseases set by the Minister on the proposal of a paediatric clinic requiring special care and protection is EUR 200. The right shall be decided on the basis of the opinion of the Medical Commission, which shall draw up an opinion on each particular case. Under the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, the aid and service allowance is a pension and disability benefit which is independent of the beneficiary’s property situation. The aid and service allowance shall be the monthly cash receipt by which the beneficiary settles the costs incurred as a result of the permanent changes in the health condition, which prevents it from meeting the basic needs of life and therefore necessarily and consistently requires foreign care and assistance. Acquisition of the right: the opinion of the disability commission or other expert of the institution that it is essential for that person to carry out the basic needs of life that he or she needs permanent assistance and the services of another person, or that he or she is a person subject to this right under the law due to certain health conditions. The task of the disability commission or other expert of the institution is to give an opinion on whether the person exercising the right to an allowance for assistance and service is necessarily in need of permanent assistance and the provision of services to the other person to meet all or most of the basic needs of life, to be blind or visually impaired or to need permanent supervision or to be given a reduced mobility of at least 70%. The aid and service allowance for STIZ-1 was implemented in 2002. In December 2002, the Association of Blind and Invisible Associations in its letter stated that it was different terms, but the same content, and that in the case of the right to an allowance for assistance and services for blind children after the ZPIZ-1 and the right to an allowance for the care of the child under the ZSPD for choice. Therefore, only one right can be enjoyed by the beneficiary child. On the initiative of the Association of Blind and Invisible Associations, the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance provided an interpretation that, in the case of the right to an allowance for the assistance and service of blind children after the ZPIZ-1 and the right to an allowance for the care of the child under the ZSPD, the beneficiary can enjoy only one right. Such interpretation was also transmitted to all social work centres. It is based on the provision of Article 142 of the ZPIZ-1, which provided: “If the beneficiary obtains the right to an allowance for assistance and service under this law and under other regulations, only the rights he chooses may be enjoyed.” In 2012, the First Judgment of the Supreme Labour and Social Court decided that the right to an allowance for the care of a child is the right of parents and an indirect child, while the right to an allowance for assistance and service is the personal right acquired by blind persons, i.e. children. On the basis of the Supreme Labour and Social Court’s judgment that this interpretation, as it has been in the past, is not correct and, after coordination between the Directorates for Family and Labour Rights, we adopted a position at the Ministry, which we forwarded to all the centres for social work and the PPIZ, so that parents can re-establish money compensation, including those who have already obtained the right to the PPIZ and no longer have to choose the right. At the IMF, we currently have 25 claims to pay the compensation back, i.e. for non-payment of child care allowances. The complainants consider that it is the unlawful conduct of the State which is the basis for the State's liability for compensation. In five cases, the Court of Justice and the Social Court has already issued a judgment in which it has fully rejected the claims of the parents and charged them with the payment of legal costs, which in individual cases amount to several thousand euros. We agreed with the Ministry of Defence's proposal that the other procedures should be suspended until the decision is taken at the second stage or until the decision of the Supreme Court. The Ministry will respect the decision of the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u45	Right now, the Minister of Justice is supposed to be a magician. Goran Klemenčič answers Dr Vinko Gorenak's question regarding the trial of former Justice Minister Aleš Zalar and former Attorney General Zvonk Fischer, but is absent today because of his business trip to Paris. I'm asking if you insist on an oral response or if you want a written answer. Here you go, dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u46	Yeah, now I don't know who's getting away more, or Minister, and Zalar's doing Bell Fisher. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u47	It's very simple. Minister Klemenčič is not here, so I ask if you want an oral or written answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u48	And I'm asking you if you can avoid Mr. Klemenčič. I think he's avoiding the answer. But I'm still asking for an oral response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u49	The Minister will answer the question orally at the next meeting of the assembly. We are moving on to questions from Members of Parliament and Members in the first round. Ambassador Susana Lepi Šimenka, you have the floor to ask the Minister for the Environment and the Space of Mrs Irena Majcen.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u50	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, all present, welcome! More than five years have passed since the catastrophic flood of the Drava River in 2012. The worst, as we know, was in Dravograd, Duplek and in the southern part of the Drava River, in the southern part of the Drava River, from the Markovska dam down, Markovci, Ormož and the Centre near Drava. At that time, many people were promised many things. Above all, they were promised to clean up the Drava river stream or in individual areas, if not possible, the anti-water embankments would be arranged. Unfortunately, to this day, it has been more than five years since this happened. One of the citizens, namely from the municipality of Circulana, addressed me in the office of the Member. It lives in the Dolan area, where they also suffered extensive damage during the flood period in 2012. It's an area where there are some houses that have been in this area for years. The area had never been flooded before, but unfortunately there was a really big flow and what happened happened happened. At that time, however, the inhabitants were promised to clean up the Drava River — there is, of course, a thousand and one reasons, and Arso pleads with Nature 2000. If it was not possible to clean the stream as it had been in the past, they were promised that at least a flood basin would be made. It's an area where it might need to be 200 meters long. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you: When will it generally cleanse itself, and when can we expect the arrangements for the Drava River? When will such cleansing occur that the actual inhabitants will no longer be threatened? Unfortunately, today, all those living in this area are in fear and are having a hard time expecting what will happen. And second of all, I want to know: What about the floodgates? Can you promise them, and when will this happen? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u51	Minister of Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u52	Dear President of the National Assembly, Dr Milan Brglez, honourable Member, Mrs Suzanne Leup Šimenko, honourable Members and Members, thank you for the question! To begin with, I would like to say that such an extraordinary event as was the case when in Austria a hydropower plant unannounced in such quantity in the Drava River must no longer be, it must no longer happen. Our professional services, which are prognostic, thus regulating the Drava River flows, have also been linked to the Austrians. This is, of course, only to say, but it is true that regulating flood measures in Slovenia is our task, not more of the Environment Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, but of the Water Directorate. In 2013, planned investments under the Cohesion Policy Operational Programme 2007-2014 were already launched in the field of investment investments in water infrastructure, providing flood safety on the Drava River, the first phase. High-water embankments totalling EUR 8.1 million were carried out in Dogos, 2.7 km long and 5.1 km high-water embankments at the Vurberk-Zgornji Duplek section. Hereinafter, in the implementation of the operational programme 2014-2020, we anticipate the continuation of this project between Maribor and Ptuj. The measures will be of total value in the Ptuj Drava area, at least the estimated value is EUR 12 million. It is also an arrangement of individual measures in Maleknik, Celestrina, Trčov, Zlatoličje, and in relation to the avian congregation in Čreta, Vičava and Građena and Rogoznica. Of course, I did not find the Circulan myself out of these statements; perhaps it would be good to specify the Circulans in the question itself, but there is no problem if the answer is considered to be complementary. Also in 2009-2012, under the Drava-Mura Project in the Drava section of Maleknik and Dogoš, water management measures to improve the flow of the Drava river stream have shown that the flow has increased from Q2 to Q5 – that is, Drava is more fluid – and that the levels in these areas have decreased to appearance, so we are talking about the emergence of centuries-old flows. Water management measures are also systematically implemented after 2012 to improve the flow of the Drava River and reduce flood risk in the peripheral area also under the Natura 2000 Guidelines. In Project Frisco, these are cross-border projects, measures are planned on the Drava River between Ptava and Ormož. Maintenance works that improve the flow of the Drava River in the section from the dam in Melje to Ptuj and from the dam in Markovci to Ormož are carried out regularly, to the extent of the annual funding provided under the public economic service funds and the resources provided under the concession contract by the Drava Power Plants. All maintenance works in Drava are carried out in accordance with the nature protection guidelines, since the entire area in Natura 2000 and between 2015 and 2017 was spent for this purpose EUR 6.7 million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u53	Member Susana Lepi Šimenka, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u54	Thank you so much again for saying that. Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary, but unfortunately I'm not happy with your answer. I am particularly interested in this part of the lower stream of the Drava River, which will happen from Ptuj forward to Ormož. However, as you said, it is an area that is largely a large part of the area under Natura 2000 and is also aware of by the inhabitants of the area. However, given their past experiences, given how much they know how the Drava River itself has been cleaned in the past, everyone can tell me one by one that today the Drava River is no longer clearing, as in the past, solely because of the particular species of animals that live in this area, which I believe – believe me, I am a great lover and advocate of animal protection – they will not live in this area unless the flood finally occurs. Here, on the one hand, we need to ask ourselves who we need to protect in the first place, where the animals are, where the humans are. Of course, we are all in favour of finding some compromise between the two, and I believe that it can also be found. It has been warned, simply a stream of Drava river, that I will be more precise, in the immediate vicinity of the Borl – if possible now more familiar – does not clean up as it has cleaned in the past. If at least a floodstorm were to be made in this part, they would in fact agree: to protect animals and to protect humans, not least, and the investment in this would probably be minimal in view of a disaster that may — of course, we hope that no — will ever happen again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u55	Minister of Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u56	Thank you, Member. I must admit that the very composition of your question that came to us is very limited, you are talking about the Drava River in a written address or a written statement of your question. Drava is a river that has been making a long journey in Slovenia, so this conclusion you have made on the question that you would like to know about this extreme section has not been explained in this written answer. However, I assure you that people who still remember the cleaning of the Drava River must have been in years because of the many years that have passed since the former water management companies who have indeed performed the task years ago, namely the former country, regularly and professionally. However, if we are talking about Natura 2000, this is a measure taken by Slovenia before joining the European Union, so no one has taken it as a measure explaining why something cannot be done, but a measure which is in accordance with the rules, in particular the Birds Directive and the Habitat Directive, must be implemented, which means that measures relating to rivers and watercourses should also be taken into account. As I have already announced to you in the first part, if you consider that the answer needs to be completed or perhaps you give a particular written question that touches this section of yours, we will prepare a written answer. But it is true that if we are talking about Drava's inflow, so about Dravinja, we are working well with the mayors, and we are also looking for solutions, so that I see no reason why they would not even be in this Drava section. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u57	Dr. Franz Trcek, you have the floor to ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnificent Nutrition. To Diane jedan, who's gone. So I'm asking if you want a written or oral answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, chairman. I want an oral answer, of course. It saddens me that I do not see Mr Jew's face here, nor do I see the faces of Members and Members. I can honestly say that, although I have already asked quite a few oral and written important questions in this mandate, this is the most important question of the delegation. Why? They published an interview on Mr. Židan in the magazine The Face – The evening of the magazines publish this – you know that one of them is doing it as a future mandate holder; a nice interview; the gentleman is a family man like most of us; he likes chocolate and so on. But the joke's on the side. Of course, if you are a politician, you cannot avoid politics in such a friendly interview. I read this interview on the train, and when I read this sentence, this reply on page 16, I admit that it had me to pull the hand brake, even though they would have penalized me. So, on the question: “One of your important objectives is to preserve agricultural land. Then why have you supported the Magna painting project, which will be built on agricultural land?" Mag. Dejan Židan replied, quote: "The decision to locate the painting room, which I could not accept with pleasure, was made at a higher level. This has only been reported.” I repeat: "It was adopted at a higher level." See, Mr Židan is not only the president of the smallest political party, but Mr Židan is the Vice-President of the Government of Slovenia. But you know, I don't know, Mr. Cerar is a blind man, Mr. Karl Erjavec is abroad more outside and Mr. Jew is then. As far as I know, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is a collective body. Both Mr Židan and SD, as well as a little quieter SDS than others, supported the old new President of the Republic of Slovenia, who spoke about the background uncles. But then he didn't reveal them. Friday we'll have a report on TES 6. There, a former comrade, now Sir, Hanžek speaks of the country being kidnapped as one of the worst forms of systemic corruption. And Mr. Židan has a month to prepare himself very well for this answer – not only to me: What is and what is this higher level than the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the National Assembly? It seems to me that this is a key question to which we must answer and, I will say, to be singled out in the next term by the so-called independents. After all, it does not just touch the height of pensions, the minimum wage, it touches the succour of this society and how we will live on. I hope that next time Mr. Jew will answer that question, even if the meeting may have to be closed or will need to be closed [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u59	Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food Magi. Dejan Židan will answer this question at the next meeting. Ambassador Erika Dekleva, you have the floor to ask the Minister of the Environment and the premises of Mrs Irena Majcen.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister! The media has warned us mass that there is a lot of waste ash in the centre of Beer, wood industry, waste glues and other wastes, and a lot of hazardous waste barrels that can cause another environmental disaster. I hope we've learned something from the recent in Kemis, even though it's not looking good at this point. The owner of the parcels, the liquidation manager of Javor, arrogantly rejects the remediation of the area, which has not been locked up until recently. He was freely accessed by both the press and everyone else. Environmental inspection decisions stem from 2013 when the director of the company was the same gentleman who is now the winding-up manager, but the situation has not been resolved and not now. That's why I want to know: How is it possible that the inspection has achieved absolutely nothing in all this time? I also want to know: What's in the barrels? If they do contain substances that are marked on labels, we may be honestly afraid. Since the photographs show that these substances are already being drained from the barrels, we can fear that they will flow into the river Pivko, through it into the water supply of Malna, which supplies more than 20,000 people with water. However, the operation of the inspection is justified not only because of the hazardous characteristics of the waste, but also because of unregulated ownership relations found, failure to comply with contractual obligations between different entities and the transfer of liability, which is likely to take some time. Insolvent proceedings against Javor, which have been dragging for quite some time. By November 2015, the company had been in the process of a simplified compulsory settlement and the Cyprus District Court had brought bankruptcy on it. Although the fate of insolvency proceedings is still unclear, a group of creditors, including Šilc and the partners of the liquidation manager Milan Šilc, appealed to the Court's decision. The case is thus returned to the Court of First Instance in its re-decision, so we cannot help but explain by the Inspectorate that it is the duty of the manager and that the costs of both the penalties and the disposal of hazardous waste are burdensome, because it is still not known whether there are any means of settlement in the bankruptcy mass and when, of course, it will all be completed. Until then, the next ecological disaster can occur. That is why I cannot agree to the re-warning between the competent authorities, which also favoured Kemis. People of Beer [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u61	Minister of Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u62	Dear Member, Mrs Erika Dekleva, thank you for the question! In short, I would like to say that I thank you for the indications with which you have already determined how difficult it is to find the culprit in bankruptcy proceedings. I must also say that, in many of the Inspectorate's decisions, there are complaints, not only to the other body, but also to the Administrative Court, which means that the effectiveness of implementation is, of course, limited. It is true, however, that when drafting changes to the Environmental Protection Act or in the drafting of a new law that will, of course, define the old one, but will be larger on a scale, one of the essential tasks that awaits us is to provide financial resources in such cases as well as in the recovery of the old burdens which are quite something in Slovenia. However, speaking of this particular issue of yours now, we know that an environmental inspection has already issued a decision in 2013 to remove a thousand 500 cubic metres of ash. In 2014, Javor, Binding Panel, d.o.o., issued a decision to remove 120 tonnes of waste glues to the same company. Since the company did not comply with the decision, the decision to authorise enforcement was followed by a monetary coercion. Since 2015 went bankrupt, we often find that such decisions are then going bankrupt or sold, suggesting that only a provision in the Environmental Protection Act, which says that the originator pays, is not enough to have this provision upgraded. Thus, the execution of money-forcing was not successful. Furthermore, the environmental inspection is hampered by the provisions of Article 29 of the PSC, which states that if insolvency proceedings are instituted against the burden-bearing agent and the bankruptcy mass is the waste that could not be sold or distributed to creditors in accordance with the law, it becomes the owner of the waste State. Since these wastes cannot be sold, their owner of the country became bankrupt. By a decision of 2017, the owner of the land, Javor Pivka d.d., was determined to dispose of the circus 3 thousand cubic metres of waste-based glue, 230 metal barrels of waste, 60 empty metal barrels, 12 barrels of waste oil and 30 pallets of waste paint. The company complained against the decision and succeeded with the complaint. The second-degree authority has repealed the decision and the inspector is therefore conducting a re-established procedure in accordance with the second-degree instructions. In this inspection procedure, it was found that the content does not expire from the barrels. Since metal barrels are likely to be hazardous or hazardous waste, waste is treated as hazardous, which is in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 5 of the Waste Regulation. Waste will also be treated as hazardous waste. The current Environmental Protection Act, in accordance with the requirements of EU law and modern legal and philosophical origins, is based on the principle that all costs of environmental protection, including the rehabilitation of the polluted environment, must be borne by the polluter and not by society as a whole or by the State. The primary liability is therefore the cause of the burden. In order to prevent unacceptable risks to the environment and other unacceptable burdens, the law prescribes a series of prohibitions and orders and, in the event of an infringement, provides for action against the agent. In this regard, in order to ensure adequate efficiency, the inspection decisions are enforceable immediately after the expiry of the time limit for the abolition of the act, which means that they are enforceable despite possible complaints, but it should be pointed out that the enforcement of the inspection decisions, in particular in cases where the debtor does not wish or cannot carry them out, is highly dependent on whether the inspection in these cases has sufficient financial resources in the annual national budget. So far, this has not been the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u63	Ambassador Erik Deklava, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u64	Thank you very much. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u65	Come on in, please. Yeah, but now we're gonna have to wait a minute, obviously. Does it work?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u66	I did it. Thank you for that answer so far. Totally, of course, I can't be satisfied. It's a fact, but I can agree with you that the culprit is difficult to find. First of all, I would say that, as far as I know, soil sampling has not been done, so I don't know what makes it possible to say that substances don't leak into the ground; at least the images shown in the media speak differently. So it seems from the images that something is leaking out of the barrels; whether it is toxic or not, we do not know because there was no sampling of the earth. I know all these inspection decisions you've been talking about, but that doesn't help much, because all the wastes are still there. Although it is difficult to find the culprit, I do not think that the inhabitants of the Piveka can, nor can they wait for the fire to occur or for these dangerous substances to run out of the courts and then for such a threat to the environment or to the human being, the Protection and Rescue Board will have to act. Even a lack of financial resources is not a good reason, since once a disaster occurs, these funds are usually found. As far as I'm concerned, there are only two reasons why things are like, whether it's a legal void or a lack of legislation or a complete inefficiency of inspection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u67	Minister of Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u68	Your Honor, in one part, I agree with you. Absolutely! Legislation is not effective because if it were effective, it would then be possible to take action on these land from 2013 to 2017. I also understand that financial resources should not be a problem but, unfortunately, at least in our ministry for all the tasks to be carried out is not enough. I can say that for the rehabilitation of the tire dump in Kidrič, where the lawsuit in the European Court of Justice and the threat to the Republic of Slovenia is also punishable, we provide a few more than 2 million assets annually to clean that gramogram or cave. If we had so many resources available for all the other measures, we could do a lot of things. So, the resources that we are primarily committed to that measure, and we are committed to – and I am sure that efforts will be made in this direction in the future – so that these funds will be allocated to such measures in the future, as if the state had the financial resources available, the area could be rehabilitated, the search for the owner, the perpetrator and the penalties would be carried out later. Although these months, November, December, it is likely that this will take place as early as January, intensive arrangements are under way to achieve that companies where environmental permits are issued – this means that the operation is related to certain risks – should have some funds reserved in a special account before the bankruptcy procedure, which would then be used for the recovery of these measures. If, in the future, there will be similar measures to ensure that not only state resources are made available, but indeed the financial resources of those companies that live on it, from which they are actually produced and served for this purpose. In fact, environmental permits are a risk indicator for such companies and will have to be treated differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u69	The Magnificent Messenger. Marko Pogačnik, you have the floor to question the Minister of Finance of Mags. Matei Vranictor Erman.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u70	Dear President! Dear Minister of Finance, I would like to ask you a question about the company Abanka, d.d. Following the merger of the Bank of Celje, Abanka or the State made commitments to the European Commission, these commitments are about 40 and one of the key commitments is that the Republic of Slovenia must start looking for a potential buyer for this bank by 31. 12. 2017 and the bank is to be resold or signed contract with a future buyer no later than 30. 6. 2019. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you: Are sales activities related to the sale of the Bank already under way, d. d.? Has the Ministry of Finance made any contact with the European Commission so that these commitments, which have been made, could change at certain times? If you have not contacted the European Commission regarding the modification of these commitments, I would like to know: Why not? Because in my opinion, these commitments are detrimental to the economic growth of the bank itself. The sale value is also potentially reduced and I am interested if there has been no change in commitments or negotiations to change commitments: Then why hasn't the sale of Abanka started yet? My personal opinion is that if these commitments were to be taken into account, of course, I would say that the time component is not an ally of the state. In fact, the delay in this sale also reduces the sales value itself, and only lowering the sales value of this bank also means lower inflows to the budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u71	Minister of Finance Mag. Matthew Vrančnik Erman, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u72	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President, and thank you very much, Mr Member, for the question raised. You are right when the possibility of granting State aid to the Bank was agreed, at the same time, a whole series of so-called compensatory measures intended to restrict the operation of the bank and therefore the bank would not have a better position on the market than it would have if it had not received State aid and, on the other hand, a commitment relating to improving corporate governance. The third group, or an integral part of these corporate management compensatory measures, also includes the commitment to fully sell the Bank as an investment by the State until 30 June 2019. In accordance with the commitments given, sales procedures should be initiated by the end of this year, and these procedures should be initiated by the Slovenian SDH, which leads or will lead the sales process on behalf of the country. The sales procedure shall be initiated by the appointment of a special working group within SDH for sale and by procedures leading to the selection of a financial adviser. These procedures shall be SDH in this year or this month, so that all obligations can be met by the deadline set by commitments at the latest. Together with the consultant authorised by the European Commission to monitor the operations of the Bank, we are monitoring the fulfilment of all commitments and, in fact, the Bank fulfils the commitments it has made and must comply with them until the sale of the State ownership share takes place. Let me also recall that, according to the annual management plan or the strategy for the Bank, it is envisaged that the country sells its entire share, all 100 % is said, nor is there a certain way of selling in the strategy, which means that different options are open, but in particular we are thinking in the direction of finding a strategic investor or strategic partner. If I return to commitments, one of the commitments that, due to changing market circumstances, not due to bank failures, can cause some problems is the issue of lending to the non-bank sector or the extent of the bank's balance sheet. We are monitoring this situation, and in a moment or if we find that there could be any difficulty in meeting this commitment compared to others, we will also contact the European Commission and ensure that the fulfilment of this criterion does not adversely affect the other monitoring and fulfilment of commitments to the specific bank. In view of what I have said about the purpose of granting or setting compensatory measures, of course, the change in commitments only because they are unfavourable to the bank and for the price of the bank, it is not possible, but it is possible, if we find that, because of the changed circumstances on the market which the bank could not influence, a certain undertaking cannot be fulfilled by the bank. As we say, we are closely monitoring this situation and will act once the conditions are met. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u73	The Magnificent Messenger. Marko Pogačnik, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u74	Dear Minister, thank you for your part of the answer. I am also pleased that you have confirmed or agreed with my opinion that certain commitments to the Bank can be harmful in the event that it is actually sold, I will say, in this deadline of 2019. The key two questions I ask myself or ask you: Why did you not decide to try to change these commitments with the European Commission? But if you haven't, I'd like to know: Why didn't you decide to sell these investments sooner than to wait for the deadline? Because the fact is, later, the bank will be sold according to the commitments it has, I'd say, a smaller purchase. It's either here or someone's doing it on purpose or not. Just an example, key commitments that are a reduction in the balance sheet amount. For example, at the end of 2015, three billion 800, by 2018, at the end of the year, three billion 400. This is about 400 million below the balance sheet. Prohibition of connections, prohibition of acquisitions, disinvestment and liquidation of subsidiaries and branches. It forces the bank to lower its activity. In fact, we do have economic growth on the market. I'm interested in your opinion here: What's your opinion? It is my opinion that, given the commitments the bank has and is limited to the market, especially since it is now a matter of economic growth, that we will actually sell this bank at a substantially lower price at the end of the year or mid-2019 than we could sell it in 2017. Because these commitments automatically force the bank, society that it is not active in the market and is not competitive. I'm sure you'll sell the bank better in case the balance sheet sum is three billion 800 than it's going to have to be after the commitments, say, at the end of 2019, three billion 400. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u75	Minister of Finance Mag. Matthew Vrančnik Erman, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u76	Thank you very much. The price that the bank can achieve on the market is influenced by several factors and a whole range of commitments, as I mentioned, are also linked to improving corporate governance, for example by reducing the share of costs in revenue, further by regulating and consolidating information systems, and we need to know, last but not least, that banks, the Bank and the Bank of Celje, were united in October 2015 and need some time to consolidate their business. All these circumstances, in addition to the balance sheet amount, may affect the price. About the sales deadline. This deadline is certainly a deadline of 30 June 2019, indeed, and given that the first measures for initiating the sale process have already begun, it is not necessary that the bank cannot be sold earlier, even faster, and of course the preparation of the bank for sale is very important in this process. All this time it has been used for this purpose, in order to optimize the possible price for the bank and thus achieve the maximum possible payment of the tax assets invested. Once again, we have not asked for a change of commitments so far. Given how they are now showing up at the end of the year, I expect that we will launch these procedures at the beginning of next year, when we also begin discussions with the European Commission, but we cannot achieve a change of commitments just because the commitments are limited to the bank. This is the purpose of such commitments or compensatory measures. We must show that the bank could not fulfil certain commitments due to changes in the market that the bank could not have affected and agree, if possible, on a way to fulfil such a commitment that would not jeopardise the bank's further operation, which could otherwise have happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u77	Thank you, too, Madam Secretary. Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor. He will ask the question to the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petr Gasperšić. Mr. Lah, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. However, my question from the area of the third development axis is that these planning documents adopted by the Government cannot be explained in due course that this southern part of the third development axis could be built from New City to Vinica. Construction of the third development axis means improving transport links from the north-east of Slovenia, from the border with Austria to the border with Croatia. In the Operational Programme for the Implementation of European Cohesion Policy for the period 2014-2020, the project of the southern part of the third development axis is classified as a priority investment. The assessment of the value of the first phase of the Southern Work, which is the first part of the third development axis, is expected to be around €85 million, of which €39.5 million from cohesion funds and the rest from other sources. The Development Programme Plan 2019-2020 shows that the planned funding for the construction of the Southern Development Axis is very modest or minimal in the Development Programme Plan. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you: At what stage is the preparation of documentation for the construction of the first phase of the third development axis? Since the preparation of this project investment documentation and building permit will not be timely, it will be difficult to draw cohesion funds from this financial perspective, as we know that the contract must be signed in 2020, in the last year of this financial perspective, but can then end in M plus 3, that is to say until 2023. According to my information, which I have just received, it will be difficult to start in 2020 with regard to the progress of all these works and to use these funds. If not: How will the state provide the missing funds and when will the southern part of the third development axis be built? I would therefore ask for clarification because the director or President Darsa spoke one way, and the development programme plan by 2022 does not speak in favour of the beginning of this construction, but the government's promise on the ground was given.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u79	Minister Peter Gasperšič, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u80	Thank you, President, for your word. Thank you, too, honourable Member, Mr Zvonk Lah for the question raised. I must say that I am always happy to answer the third development axis, because I am sure that important developments have been made in the implementation of this project, both in the northern part and in the southern part, and in the central part of the area. For the third development axis is undoubtedly one of the priority projects of this government and, of course, our ministry, with which we want to ensure the proper conditions for the development of the economy in regions that are more remote from the highway network, and undoubtedly in the southern part of this region of the White Region, which we know to the New City or to the motorway now all connections are made through the ordinary state network via the Gorjans, where in winter time this transport is hampered. Our aim is to ensure, as soon as possible, the link between the White Land and the motorway network and, therefore, at this first section, which is located in the space, namely, from the A2 motorway across the New City to the Malina connection, including the tunnel under the Gorjani, that construction works begin as soon as possible in this part of the work; and in the second part from the connection between Malina and Metlika and Vinica, the regulation adopted at the Government was adopted in the previous week, the State Spatial Plan Regulation, so that this section, namely from Malin to Metlika and Vinica, is placed in space. It is precisely for this part, i.e. for payments of already implemented activities to place in the space and also for the implementation of placement in the premises from Montenegro to the border crossing of Vinica itself, that the budget plan provides for the necessary resources to be provided in the coming years. So we're talking here about the funds that are meant to be put into space. However, the funds intended for the construction of the construction works, namely the construction of the project itself, we are talking about this section from the highway to the Malina connection, and they are provided through a highway programme, since the construction of this section is now under the responsibility of Dars and therefore the necessary funds are provided for in the National Road Development Programme. If I just fly over quickly, what is the expected dynamics of activity on what I'm saying, the operational section, which is again divided into two stages. The first part, the smaller part, is from the highway to the connection center, this is at the Revoz factory. This is about 5 and a half kilometres long section, which you have already said yourself, the investment value is just over 80 million, the negative 40 million is the European funds. This is therefore the first priority for these funds to be used to obtain a building permit by the end of 2018. All activities are subordinated to this and activities are therefore carried out as a matter of priority in this section, as regards the production of project documentation, land acquisition and so on. If I just say the deadlines: by the end of April, it is envisaged to close the architectural competition, in 2018, environmental consent and projects to obtain the building permit will be provided by the end of September, land will be acquired by October, an investment programme will be developed and a construction permit will be obtained by November. So everything in 2018 and then this will also allow this section to start building in 2019 and then these funds will also be drawn. Construction is planned for about 3 years, that is until 2022. At approximately one year's delay, however, follows the stage from Osredek to the Malina connection, including the tunnel under the Gorjanci, where the funds are also provided in the same way through Dars. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u81	Mr. Bell Lah, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u82	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, from your mouth to God's ears, I'd say. A lot of these activities were foreseen for 2018 until the building permit. Indeed, Darsa’s report states that by the end of 2018 technical and investment documentation was to be obtained, they do not provide for a building permit. It is also written that contracts have been concluded, and as far as I know – the call was – that the contractor or designer for two bridges has not yet been selected and we are at the end of 2017. Then where is the time to design, but it is a very demanding part, the connection in New City and then past the New City. The Operational Programme for the Implementation of the European Cohesion Policy for the period 2014-2020 is quite precisely defined and it states that the first phase – these are the two stages, as you said – of the East Highway hub, the Revoz Centre connection is envisaged, as you said. Then the second phase, phase 3, is the connection of the Centre to the Pagans, scheduled for 2029, as it says. And then phase three, Raspberry, that means, over the Gorjans, after 2030. Then I wonder, when do you get to Vinica, by 2040 or 2050? But we know that it is essential that this third development axis be built from New Town to Vinica, it is said, on the A1 motorway Zagreb-Dubrovnik, which is the essence of this connection. So, by 2040, 2050, that's probably not going to happen if it goes after what's written in this program. However, it is very important what will happen in the operational programme from 2020 to 2027.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u83	Minister, please, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. I have to say, I don't know what document you're operating on where that data came from. They are obviously out of date, because we signed a protocol with four municipalities in autumn to set out the deadlines and activities to be carried out for the construction of this section for operational implementation, both design, placement in the premises in the rest of the work and construction of the third development axis in the southern part. It is clearly stated here that by the end of 2018 a building permit for this section from the motorway to the centre should be obtained and that in 2019 the construction works will start at this part of the building, which will last for about three years and follow activities at about one year's delay; hence, the construction permit at the end of 2019, the start of construction of 2020 at this section from the Centre to the Malina connection. As for the design, as you also asked, there is now an architectural competition for both bridges, which will be completed after Darsa's forecast in April, and, of course, further development of project documentation for these two bridges. And for the rest of it, these things are already being made. Such activities are very intensive and I am sure that not all of these timetables show any threat to the possibility of drawing on European funds, but also to the implementation of the planned works. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u85	Mr. Bell Lah, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u86	I will use this business opportunity to discuss this, because I think a thorough debate should be held on the complete road infrastructure in the future in view of the increase in traffic, especially freight, in Slovenia. This southern part will be just as problematic as the rest. We know that the border crossing of Vinica for freight traffic is opening, that the problem with freight traffic from the port of River to Zagreb is because Zagreb is fuller than Ljubljana, and the trucks will go the nearest way. He jokes into the program and shows him and he comes across Vinica then in front of the New City – and where then? And that, we expect not to be so small. The same problem, you said before, was that the project should be commissioned in April – for an architectural competition; it is said, the selected designer. And then by the end of the year, it was supposed to be a building permit. How much is it? How many months? I don't think this is gonna work. Otherwise, the profession warns that there will be a delay. Well, there's still a few spares. If 2012 were a building permit, it could start in 2020. Then a transport economic study, which we know in this part, when 400 trucks a day go to Revoz, is worth it, but from this part no further. She's not positive. How will he obtain any funds? Will it be a toll or a non-road part? Dars was supposed to confirm the next program in January. I hope he puts that in there. In addition, the profession says that this part is so richly invested that it will not last 85 million for this part, but that the value will be significantly higher when the contractor is selected. Then where did this extra part come from? So many of these things have accumulated in Slovenia, including around Ljubljana, around the third belts and I fear there will be no money. However, if we want to get cohesion money or some other European money in the next financial perspective, because it is too late now, it will be necessary to ensure that the transport economic study is positive – as I know it is a condition. If there is no – for the White Country alone, I doubt that there will be – and the state itself will have to fund from its own resources, which we also know will not, given the other priorities. This is mine, given the experience I've had since I've been watching this for 15 years. Now, some agreement with the congregations may be signed, but the congregations here only give their consent. It's all in the country: both finance and design and all procedures.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u87	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 12 December, in the framework of the votes. We continue with the question of the Member States. Mr Franc Jurša will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnificent Nutrition a question. To dean jedan, who is excusedly absent today. Mr. Jursha, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Vice President. Nevertheless, in view of the current question, I will ask the Minister a question and ask him for an answer at the next meeting. However, I welcome, of course, both ministers and ministers present in the Chamber. Days ago, I received a warning on the issue of the implementation of the high fines imposed under the Plant Safety Act. This is the case when the Food Safety Inspector purchased a plant protection product in a smaller store. It was a means by which the buyer must show at the time of purchase an appropriate certificate that he is qualified to handle these assets. Although the seller asked if the customer had a card, he nevertheless — she said that she did not have one — issued or sold a plant protection product. This client, of course, was an inspector who, because of the wrongdoing he committed — and no one objects to it on our part — punished the seller. But the problem is the amount of the fine. The asset purchased by the inspector is said to be a customer, costing 2.3 euros. The same inspector, however, pronounced a fine of EUR 15 000 or if the offender pays a fine of EUR 7 000 500 in 15 days. Do you have any idea what that difference is in the value of the goods sold? According to my assessment, this is an extremely disproportionate amount of fine, which can even lead to closure by a smaller seller, since owners will not be able to afford to pay such a high fine, even if we are talking about the so-called half of the fine. I therefore ask the Minister for Agriculture, Health and Nutrition: Does it not seem to him that it was too high a fine that could have been lower, given the price of the product that was the basis for the sentence? Could the inspector have given a possible lower sentence, even if it was a purchase of Cuprablau, which is known to have recently been obtained without a licence, a certificate of qualification? Of course, I also have to say that this is the same starch as fungicide and is not as dangerous to the environment as some other insecticides and other starches.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u89	Thank you very much. You will receive an answer at the next meeting. Mr Marijan Pojbič will ask the Minister of Finance of Magi. Matei Vranictor Erman. Here you go, Mr. Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u90	Thank you, Mr. Vice President! Migrant workers employed in Austria are extremely dissatisfied and affected by both material and mental pay due to the ignorant attitude of the current Government of Mir Cerar to the extremely pressing issue of paying the difference in tax in Slovenia. The amount of the tax pay differentials reaches a dizzying figure of more than a few thousand euros or 10 euros, which, according to my assessment and according to the Slovenian Democratic Party's assessment, is unacceptable and this issue would necessarily need to be settled so that these employed migrant workers in Austria and also elsewhere who work honestly and hard can normally take care of their families and their children and also their grandchildren. Now, many times because of these tax payments, their basic existence is threatened, which is, of course, unacceptable and unacceptable, especially given that those people or citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who have sought work outside our borders have not done so because they want to work abroad, but in order to save their basic existence to themselves and their family and at the same time to save their dignity. They also reduced the pressure on the social treasury Republic of Slovenia by hiring abroad, thus depriving the country of the need to – and still not – pay for social transfers or social support for survival. It is perfectly logical and normal that these people, i.e. migrant workers outside our borders, are very disappointed and very angry at a country that has not been able to provide work in its own country, have not been able to provide them after the end of the guaranteed right, this is to ensure a basic existence of life. According to my information, the Government of Mir Cerar has done nothing to accede to the amendment of the existing Convention on the avoidance of double taxation of income and property with the Republic of Austria and thus solve this problem. It now requires migrant workers to pay a difference of tax or income to their own country of Slovenia due to favourable taxation in the country where they work; despite the fact that more favourable taxation in the Republic of Slovenia is due to certain specifics, such as taking into account the costs of lunch and transport to the tax base, despite the fact that most of their earnings, i.e. earned money spent abroad, are spent in Slovenia. I therefore ask the Minister of Finance: When will you listen to people in distress, migrant workers employed in the Republic of Austria, and solve the problem of double taxation in a fair and civilized manner?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u91	The mag will answer. Matthew Vraničnik Erman, Minister of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for the floor and thank you very much for the question. As a matter of fact, the problem of taxation of migrant workers has existed since Slovenia decided to follow the internationally established approach to taxation of the income of natural persons on the principle of taxation of world income. We have addressed the problem with a solution in the Income Act, where we have established a special tax relief for such workers. This happened in 2010, but the Constitutional Court in 2011, at the end of 2011 – pardon, at the beginning of 2012, found that this solution was not in conformity with the Constitution. The conclusion that the solution is not in conformity with the Constitution was adopted mainly because neither the Government in 2012 nor the National Assembly had explained how the situation of migrant workers was so different that their incomes had to be adjusted differently. From this point on, we have been working or trying since 2013 and this whole mandate to address with different solutions the problem that migrant workers face while at the same time not compromising the fundamental principles of taxation of the income of natural persons. On the basis of our efforts, we, together with the representatives of the society, or now the Union of Cross-border Migrant Workers, have reached out and coordinated specific solutions in relation to the payment of the tax itself, where we allow the payment to be paid or deferred if the payment would affect the survival of the debtor or his family. This focuses on the problem of migrant workers who have not paid advances in the course of the year and are therefore faced with high payments at the end of the year, or on those who wish to solve the problem of non-payment of taxes through a single self-declaration for more than a few years. In addition, due to the specific costs these workers have in connection with the cost of transporting to work and the cost of eating, we have set out and further strengthened this year specific provisions which give these workers higher rights on the day of employment than Slovenian employees have under the system of Slovenian rights. The solution, as mentioned above, is unfortunately not possible through the Convention, we have already examined it, but the Convention would have waived the payment of the tax to be settled in Slovenia in any case, but it is not a double taxation in any case, since the Slovenian tax obligation deducts the obligations that these persons have settled in another country. Conventions tend to go in the opposite direction, in the case of cross-border migrant workers, countries of employment will resign from their taxation and have the exclusive right to tax the country of residence. This is a common practice in international treaties, and we wanted to achieve a very different solution. And while you are saying that many people are facing enormous payouts, let me say that in 2015, out of the 8 000 896 taxpayers who had to pay their income, they were receiving income from abroad, only 190 of them had to pay more than 5,000 euros. As it is said, special provisions have been introduced for them, which have allowed them to be paid more easily over a longer period of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr. Pojbič, do you request a supplement to the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u94	Madam Minister, what you have just said was expected, but you have said what we all know. You practically didn't say anything new. Migrant workers employed in Austria continue to have the same problems with the same problems. I said before nicely that we could solve this convention, but after what you have just said, you obviously have made a different decision and do not want to cancel the difference in the tax that workers employed in Austria – that is, these migrants employed in Austria – have to pay in Slovenia. You said you didn't want to give it up. You said you tried to find some solutions, but in the end, no concrete, smart solutions. That's why I'm asking you again. If you don't want to listen to the problems of migrant workers, I'd like to know: Do you want them to move out of our country, too? Only by means of a tax return will they cease to be forced to pay double taxes. How many young and capable people have already left? Are you really going to let this go on? Once again, I am very disappointed that the current government and the government coalition, composed of SMC, SD, Desus, do not have a hearing for these people. I would like to stress in particular, but I speak on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party, if we win the next elections and can form a government, we will solve this situation by working migrants working outside our borders, that is, in the Republic of Austria, they will like to come home to their home country, that is, to their beautiful home country Slovenia. Dear Madam Secretary! Solutions exist, solutions are and solutions can be found. Where there is a will, there is a way! But this coalition and this government are obviously capable of defending privileges and privileges, but they don't care about those people who fight to survive themselves and their children their grandchildren.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mag. Matthew Vranick Erman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Doesn't mean we don't want to listen to migrants. We want to listen to them and introduce certain exceptions or specific solutions that are justified by their specific situation into the taxation system. However, our commitment is a commitment to all persons who pay income tax in Slovenia. We owe them the same treatment as the 10,000 Euros earned in Slovenia must be dealt with in a tax comparable manner to the 10,000 Euros that the Slovenian resident earns elsewhere. Exceptions or special solutions are also in place for migrant workers in the form of a higher amount of recognised food during working hours, in the form of special solutions for transporting workers to work for the purpose of carrying out their work. These are solutions that are not made available to Slovenian taxpayers, and they are because they are in a special situation and are justified for them. Most of all, believe me, I am disappointed alone because the whole problem would not be what you are trying to represent today if, in 2012, when the Constitutional Court asked for clarifications from the Government and the National Assembly on the reasons why specific treatment of migrant workers would be justified, there was no relevant substantive response. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr. Marian Pojbich, please. Procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u98	I propose that a broader debate be held on this issue in the National Assembly, because I am not satisfied with this answer that I have now received. Above all, I am not satisfied with this, and there are arguments over and over and over again, why some things cannot be done, and over and over and over and over again, they speak of what has already been done in the past or good or bad, but nothing is said about what they will do to resolve this problem. I said earlier how this problem can be solved — by a convention between Austria and Slovenia. Of course, at that point, Slovenia must cancel this tax, this income. But look, these people went to Austria. They went to seek work for themselves — or to other countries. This country has done nothing to help them. They went to Austria because they couldn't survive here because they didn't get a job. They had kids and so on. I'm from the Šentilj municipality. If you are looking at Šentilj-Radgon, even that area up there, even Koroška, go see how many people there work for a thousand 200 euros in Austria; and they must pay the most in the end. And how many people call me, they say: "Marian, I have at the end of 2 to 3,000 or I don't know how many euros to pay. Where do I get it? Where do I get it? Tell me!" It's easy to tax someone, you can! It's very easy, but I know people's hardships because I'm from that environment at home, I'm from Sweet Top at home, I know the whole area. There's almost a third of people working there in Austria. This country should ask itself why. Why does this country not provide the conditions for the economy to develop here and these people could be employed here and could live normally? Why is that? And why doesn't this government know how many thousands of executives are now raising wages for five classes? Just the principals, the principals, and so on. Why is that? On the other hand, where is the economy? But the economy is putting an extra burden on the economy. Therefore, virtually everyone, young people, capable people and those of quality, leaves Slovenia and goes to Austria, Germany, Switzerland, England and so on. How long is this going to take? How do you think this society will develop if all intelligence leaves Slovenia? How, then, can we improve our added value with high technology if we do not have a highly educated staff leaving – not just here, even in health care, and so on? That is why we have such a condition in our society! Madam Minister, this question needs to be answered! And what has this government in which you have done to make things better here? Instead of improving the situation, we have several young people each year, highly educated, leaving Slovenia. Certainly not because of me here in the National Assembly, which I have done everything to help, but this government is the one who should make appropriate decisions to the National Assembly so that we can support them here in the National Assembly and help those young people to be happy, satisfied and to make families here and to live here in our country. That's why we took over in 1991, not because what's happening now is that the privileged are on the one hand, but because most people are always poor. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr Pojbič, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 12 December, in the framework of the votes. Matjaž Germany will ask the Minister of Finance mags a question. Matei Vranictor Erman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, colleague, colleague! It may seem a little strange at the first ball that I am only referring to you with this kind of question, but perhaps in the second part you will understand why I am referring this question to you. We are talking about tourism. This, in our society, is taking a very wide and increasingly important place, even in terms of the development of our society, because it is an important generator of development as such. Therefore, for at least two and a half years — even at my initiative — we have begun to deal with such portals and platforms offering certain services. We are talking about renting apartments, in this case Booking.com or Airbnb, and so on, because this area is completely unregulated in the Republic of Slovenia. So if we want to play the game, we need to know the rules by which we all behave in the same standards. That is why I am addressing you with certain questions. It has been at least two and a half years since the Government of the Republic of Slovenia took part, even within the working group that it has formed to cut through the Gordija knot and decide that we will finally and finally solve this problem also because of the communication we give in the Republic of Slovenia and our society are able to face the challenges of the present and modern times. I must say that for a year or almost a half, the President of the Government himself personally engaged and promised that by the end of the last year this promise, which had been made, would be fulfilled. Today we are in a situation, and from the media is able to see that those who perform such a service; for the first time, whether they do it in a very difficult way, and for the second time, and for the most part, they do it completely illegal. So, with all the risk and with all the responsibility that we should be responsible for putting these rules into play, we are somehow putting our own citizens in a situation where, for the first time, we are not setting a condition enough to generate some development of society, and for the second time, we are forcing them to act in violation of legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, in this first part, I'm going to ask you what belongs to your department: What has been done so far in the last two and a half years in order for this sector to be regulated in such a way that individuals wishing to do so can also legally provide such services I will then ask another part of my question. Thank you very much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The mag will answer. Matthew Vraničnik Erman, Minister of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for the floor and thank you very much for the question. I have to start by not being under the authority of the Ministry of Finance to provide for the regulation of individual types of activities, and the area of renting apartments or rooms to tourists is not an area to be regulated within our ministry. However, we are obliged to take into account the regulatory framework in the system of taxation of income arising from such activities. According to current Slovenian legislation, natural persons who intend to rent a room, part of an apartment or the whole apartment for a short period of time may carry out activities in two ways. As registered paramours, these are natural persons who perform such activities only occasionally, for a total of not more than five months in the calendar year and offer guests up to 15 beds and must be registered in the Register of Business of Slovenia. Another way is to register as independent entrepreneurs. As you yourself mentioned in your question, in September 2015 the Government formed a special inter-resort working group under the direction of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology to prepare an action plan for the modernisation of the regulations governing short-term granting of real estate to tourists. The objective or report was prepared in April 2016 and the proposed action plan for updating the rules, which, as it is said, does not fall within the remit of my ministry. Within the remit of our Ministry, the Interdepartmental Group has proposed a measure, the holder of which is the Financial Administration, the Market Inspectorate and the Housing Inspectorate, which is a tighter supervision of the conciliator on the websites, as you have already already found out. Given my powers, I can't answer more than that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Matjaž German, please choose a word to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Just with my question, I wanted to point out the complexity of the inability to address these challenges of our society. The initiative for my question came from the news we received in the past days, when Fursa's leadership announced and invited those citizens who carry out such activities to report their revenues by the end of the new year, otherwise they will be subject to certain sanctions. What encouraged me as one who wants to deal with this issue is that Furs is supposed to have information from Airbnb specifically on the lessors who provide such services. Why is my question more than in place? In particular because there is no government in this world, at least I do not know whether to report or to give information to any government or to its institution about the lessors. I am therefore a little surprised because such initiatives by various governments to make Airbnb available to governments have been unsuccessful. If it is, how did we do it? If it isn't, I'm surprised by Furs' statements like this. Without misinterpretation, I would like such matters to be regulated, especially in order to avoid the situation as we find ourselves in the Republic of Slovenia, when we have an extremely interesting economic sector and part of it, which is completely unregulated, not to say deregulation. I think that it is one of the challenges that we should face if we are ambitious enough to resolve this as soon as possible and as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mag. Matthew Vranick Erman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u106	Thank you very much. The fact is that Furs has data on the income generated by the granting of real estate for tourist rentals. On the basis of these data obtained, they are expected to carry out increased monitoring, enhanced activities at the beginning of 2018. The first of these activities informed individuals that they should register such revenue by 31 January 2018 and avoid any sanctions. I have no data on how the Financial Administration has obtained data on the income generated by the renting of real estate; I must not have it in the interest of supervision that is still under way. That's why I'm appraised that Furs was supposed to get this data from the Airbnb platform, a little bit of a miracle, and I can't even confirm it. The wording actually used should be carefully examined. It is essential that efforts to make it easy to operate should also ensure that illegal activities are prevented and that all revenues achieved through the implementation of activities are appropriately included in taxation. For this reason, it seems important to me that the income arising from the renting of real estate to tourists is also included in the tax obligations of individuals. This reduces the grey economy in this area, which I think is important. However, I would also like to see a simplification of the regulatory framework on the basis of which it will then be possible to simplify any tax obligations. At this point, however, tax regulation must be dealt with in accordance with the rest of the regulation of the scope of this activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Škodnik will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food mags. Dejan Židan, who is absent; and Minister of the Environment and Space of Mrs Irena Majcen, who is present. Here you go, Mr. Badass.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u108	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Dear ministers, colleagues and fellow Members! I have referred the question to the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Mr Židan, who is absent, and to the Minister for the Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen, who is present. Dear Minister, they used to say green gold to hops because he used to bring glowing wallets to people in the past, especially in the Savina Valley. However, not all gold is sacred, and green color is not always a symbol of nature and health, as Anton Komat in the magazine Zarja in an article entitled The Message of the tragedy of the village of Socka warns. There are several hectares of hops, mainly between the village of Turiška and the village of Tomasko, in the area of Šmartna and Podgorje. However, because of the higher buying-in price of hops and spending subsidies, which are thousands of euros per hectare, the interest in hop production has been increasing, in recent times in the Think tank valley of hops are spreading right to Slovenj Gradac. People's concerns in this area are justified as this hop plant requires on average more than 20 sprinkles in the growing season. It is often said that starches for hops are compared to maize starches. The fact is, the corn is sprinkled only once a year against the weeds, at a time when the corn is still small. But the hops are sprinkled high, and the wind blows through the valley among the inhabitants of the settlements. The Civil Initiative for the Protection of the Environment and Health of the Citizens of Slovenj Gradc has recently been established in Slovenj Gradc, which has collected over 2,000 signatures. The people of the Thinkljan Valley expect the protection of the country, as the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food promised that the agricultural land on which the food is produced would be less sprinkled. I want to know: Which of the possible carcinogen pesticides used on hops will be identified as a real carcinogen in the coming years and thus deleted from the list of authorised pesticides? The second question concerns the expansion of land with hops: Can they spread without any restrictions or controls? So what should the endangered townspeople of Slovenj Gradz do, who place their hops just a few meters away from the border of their plot? Do new large-scale hops even belong in the Think Valley, which is pretty densely populated? Thank you so much for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u109	Ms Irena Majcen, Minister for the Environment and Space, has the floor. Mr. Skodnik, if you will then plead whether you want from the Magi. Dejana jedan's written or oral reply. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u110	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Matjaž Germany, honourable Member and Members of Parliament! Mr Škodnik, Commissioner, the fact is that as Minister of Environment and Space, I will be very limited in my response. I hope you don't mind. We have somehow understood that we can respond on the basis of spatial placement or spatial regulation in the Republic of Slovenia. The Regulation on the Spatial Order of Slovenia lays down rules for regulating the premises. And these apply to spatial planning of migration, economic infrastructure and landscapes, the establishment of basic and detailed use of premises, criteria and conditions for regulating the space, strategic and implementing spatial acts at regional and local level, and the location conditions for the installation of spatial arrangements and the planning and construction of buildings. In addition, the Regulation lays down rules for the preparation of expert bases for the production of spatial solutions, the justification and assessment of their acceptability and the decision-making of the implementation of spatial arrangements and the rules for the preparation of uniform and professionally justified spatial acts. There is no explicit rule between those acts or rules to determine the minimum distance of permanent plantings from areas of residence more specifically than residential areas. There is only a general rule in Article 25 that the co-existence between urban and agricultural functions should be ensured in the planning of settlement areas, cities and other urban settlements; and in rural settlements, the principle that agricultural functions in traditional agrarian settlements should normally be preferred due to specific technological conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u111	Mr. Škodnik, if you please, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u112	I thank the Minister for this part of the answer. I'd ask if I could have another written part of the answer. However, for the question concerning the Minister for Agriculture and Forestry of Mr Jewish, I would like an oral answer next month when he is present. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u113	Thank you, too. Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec will ask the Minister of Finance of Mags a question. Matei Vranictor Erman. Dr. Vatovec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u114	The most beautiful, thank you, Vice President. Madam Minister, since 11 September this year, when the representatives of the creditors in the Swiss francs presented to you the law on the relationship between the lenders and the borrowers regarding the loans in Swiss francs, it has been exactly three months. It is a law that, according to the state of relations between banks and committees, appears to be the only one that can solve a number of problems arising from bank fraud in the provision of loans in Swiss francs. The law basically provides that all lending contracts remain in force, only that unfair part of the credit contracts, i.e. the nomination in Swiss francs, is null and void. As I understand it, the representatives of the borrowers have addressed your ministry with this bill, in particular in order to harmonise in some way the solutions they propose to facilitate the adoption of the law in the National Assembly. At that time, however, various events have also developed, since one of the major banks in Bosnia has settled with the commentators and have then actually converted these contracts. The Court of Justice of the European Union has issued a judgment in which it decides that there has not been sufficient statement of acceptance of the risk arising from loans in Swiss francs, which also confirms the requirements of the representatives of the borrowers in that currency. And recently, there have been two well-suited lawsuits at the Supreme Court in Ljubljana that prove that there was a systemic error in the marketing of the product of credits, which is, of course, necessary to find an appropriate solution, probably at the legal level. It appears that this was a deliberate and planned fraud of the borrowers on the basis of which the banks took advantage. They have acquired certain benefits and, on the other hand, have left too many in substantially tight financial conditions, and some are also in deep financial distress because of these increased interest, which is also partly a threat to basic survival. Nevertheless, in all these three months, as far as I know, your ministry has not yet responded to this proposal, nor has it proposed any alternative solution. I'm asking you: Do you even support this law? Do you have any reservations about this law? If you have, what are they; if not, why have you not turned on the green light for this law? Could the ministry be insisting on an alternative bilateral settlement of disputes between banks and commentators? How long do you estimate that this situation in Slovenia will be resolved?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u115	The Minister of Finance, Mag, has the floor. Matthew Vranick Erman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u116	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! We are very reserved for the proposed law. We have many concerns of a legal or professional nature; we have, not just ourselves, concerns about intervention in so-called dispositive, bond law. A similar opinion is shared with us by the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, which is responsible for the Consumer Credit Act and the consumer protection system in general. However, we did not keep our hands crossed at this time, but we did our best to put representatives of the Frank Association at the table, as well as representatives of the banks, and we are looking for an opportunity for a negotiated solution to the problem. It is undeniable that the very determination of the Swiss franc as a value criterion in a credit agreement, either for the purpose of borrowing a loan in Swiss francs or for the purposes of a so-called foreign exchange clause, cannot in itself be an unfair business or contractual condition; however, in particular, an explanatory duty owed by the bank to the creditor or the creditor must be fulfilled. At the moment, we are in these discussions with both representative associations at a stage in which we are trying to harmonise each other, when these explanatory obligations are considered to have been properly met or where written evidence can prove such issues in the event of a possible dispute. Our aim is to reach out with common strength to some uniform views on when or under what conditions an individual loan rented in a foreign currency, in Swiss francs or in a foreign exchange clause in Swiss francs could be considered to be an unfair or unfair credit condition and in which cases it is not. On the basis of such agreed common criteria, the banks should then review all credits at the request of individual borrowers and also agree on a possible conversion in accordance with the law. It is essential, in our proposal to find a solution, that we remain within the framework of dispositive law, as part of the recognition of the business will of the two parties that have entered into these credit relations. At the same time, we are offering a faster way to resolve the situation than it would have been if the customers were to travel, as in 2015, to bilateral talks with the individual bank of the lender. It is very difficult for me to tell you how long this joint agreement could take. As it is said, we have already completed two rounds of discussions on the coordination of criteria, and we are continuing this week with further harmonisation of the text of the agreement, which would in some way be verified at the Ministry and at both representative associations. However, everything depends not only on the will of the Ministry of Finance, but also on the willingness of both parties involved in this dispute to come up with appropriate compromise solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u117	Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec, you have the floor to request an explanation of the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u118	Just a little clarification. I'd like to know: How do you assess the outcome of these arrangements between the Association of Banks of Slovenia and the representatives of these borrowers? Are there any progress, or are these negotiations? It is also more than impossible to understand from the media that they have come to a dead point where it is simply not possible to reach an agreement. The other thing I'm interested in is a court of law. As I mentioned earlier, the Court of Justice of the European Union issued Judgment C-186/16 on 20 September, in which, as I said before, it provided that there was no sufficient statement of acceptance of the risks arising from the credit; and it also provided that banks should be very thorough in teaching each borrower what the conditions under which they are going to be able to assess the significant economic consequences of such conditions themselves. And also what would be the repayment of the loan in the event of a large depreciation of the Member State's payment asset. This also results in certain actions received by similar borrowers in Spain and Greece. I am interested in some far-reaching consequence that we can only speculate about, for example, that, because an agreement will not be reached, the borrowers will go to the European Court of Human Rights. What kind of punishment would that be? Do you think that such a breakup would be possible in the end to pay for the frauds led by foreign banks in particular?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u119	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u120	Thank you very much. First, with regard to the outcome of the agreements. Talks are not simple, because not only is it a cold economic logic, but there are also many emotions involved; but we are making progress. I am sure that with some good will we can get the right result. However, I find it difficult to say whether this meeting, which is scheduled for Friday this week or another two or maybe three additional meetings, will be sufficient; what is more than likely not. But according to the initial very different opinions, it seems to me that so far we have cleared up a lot of things and brought them together. Of course, some of the toughest nuts are still left. It takes a lot of patience, a lot of serenity, which takes some time, but in any case, we all try to keep these conversations going at a high speed, we meet practically weekly, and we take a step in the right direction. As regards the judicial aspect or the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union in Luxembourg, the question is that the European Court of Justice has requested that an explanation be given to the borrower in such a form that any average borrower can understand it. However, we must take into account that the rules or requirements on how detailed explanations should be given to an individual borrower have changed over time. As a result of these standards, which are in force today, we cannot simply apply them back and say: Only if what is required today, even in credit maps 15 years ago, is an explanatory duty fulfilled. In any event, it is one of the criteria that the borrower must have been aware of all the circumstances that may arise in relation to the loan. As far as the ECHR is concerned, this option is very much prepared or reasoned in the draft law. So far, we have not devoted much more attention to this issue, but we are looking for a solution that will help people in distress at this time. Bringing lawsuits a few years further to those in distress is not going to help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u121	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. We continue with Mr Daniel Krivac's question, which he will put to the Minister of Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen. Mr. Guilty, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u122	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings to ministers and ministers! Madam Minister, Irena Majcen, I am specifically asking about the legalization of the earthquake restoration facilities after 1976, 1977 in Posoč. The new building law has not yet entered into force, but at the time of the adoption and when the Minister visited the Soča, it was agreed that, as part of the amendment of the Construction Act, it would be possible to simplify the acquisition of usable permits for these facilities, which were built in accordance with the then Act on the Promotion of Reconstruction in the Soča and also through decisions on the backing plans that enabled this construction. In a law that has been amended, the majority of the legal services in the municipalities find that this has failed and that these facilities are in accordance with the current legislation that will enter into force with 1. 1. and before, virtually black construction or even in a worse position than these objects. That's why I'm asking the Ministry: Does he have any plan, an answer to approach any ease in obtaining a usable permit for these facilities, which were built at the time in accordance with the applicable legislation, with a specific law and also with decisions on wall plans? All these facilities, however, had documentation that was available to the person concerned, but no building permits were issued under the legislation at the time and consequently no usable licences were issued. However, if we are looking at legal practice, because many of these facilities have already been involved in an administrative procedure in the intermediate phase, since, for example, some of these facilities have built up the foundations; and the administrative procedure has normally been carried out without any complications. It is said that the administrative authority has also acknowledged that these facilities are legally built. The complications arose when the owners of individual facilities began to apply for certain schemes which are awarded to the ministries of environment and space and for infrastructure relating to renovation, cost-effective use and the like, as the condition for candidateing on these tenders is applicable. That's when this problem came along. The facility is legally built in accordance with the law, in accordance with wall plans during the period but cannot obtain a usable permit. And there was a complication that you were trying to solve with the amendment of the Buildings Act. In accordance with arrangements with the mayors in these municipalities, this was somehow coordinated, but later in the final text it fell out. I'm asking you: Will you arrange this with some mandatory interpretation?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u123	Thank you. Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u124	Thank you very much for the question, honourable Member Daniel Krivec. The fact is, there is no way in which we can resolve a matter completely, especially if we consider these three laws to be extensive material. You yourself stated that there were no problems in administrative proceedings before administrative units. It is also a matter of understanding that the facilities built in accordance with the legislation are, of course, legal. Problems in drawing financial resources, this is the Eco Fund, I admit that I am not aware of this, I am hearing this for the first time today. It is important to look at, especially if there are more applicants; it is true that the current legislation allows for three possibilities of legalisation, although the buildings built after the 1976 earthquake and in accordance with the then legislation cannot, of course, be illegal. Perhaps one of the mayors would familiarise me with some of the problems that citizens have with the use of resources to review the Eco-Fund documentation, but I am convinced that this can be satisfactorily resolved without amending the legislation. The fact is also that the Ministry of Environment and Space covers a very wide range of things by content, it is not difficult for me to admit that if I should now think of all the contents, I certainly do not know them all. However, I assure you that the funeral activity is not an item that we are preparing and regulating at the Ministry of Environment and Space, but it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Economy that we will know for a later period. So the Ministry of the Economy regulates funeral activity; not us. The chimneys, of course, are at the Ministry of Environment and Space, and there are no problems in this regard, and I am taking over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u125	Mr. Daniel Krivec, would you like a word for an additional question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u126	Thank you, Minister, for the answer, and also for waiting for my question, but I can't help feeling that we didn't get along. In practice, problems arise because these facilities, because they do not have a usable permit, are treated as illegal objects; they are not, as you yourself have found. They have documentation, they have a 1976 legal basis, they have a wall plan decision; but they do not have a building permit and therefore do not have a valid permit. And it is now, in my opinion, unfair or unethical that all of these people who have such facilities built in accordance with the applicable legislation at that time would be forced to legalise objects in accordance with the current law governing black construction. These objects are not black constructions. Therefore, I specifically asked the Ministry whether, given that the promise to the mayors of Soča at the time was to prepare a single article which would take these exceptions into account because these facilities were legally built and have the right to obtain a useful permit in the end; but not after the procedure applicable to any black construction, because this is unacceptable. This is an additional cost for all these people who then obtained replacement construction legally, in accordance with the legislation in force at the time. And I think it belongs to them — that's what you've been negotiating — even a procedure that will be shortened to obtain a usable permit. It would be unacceptable for them to re-work the documentation so that such an object, standing in nature for more than 30 years, has been legalised again. Surely, though, the documentation they have stored, which is in their name, will not be sufficient in accordance with the current law. I think you need to seriously consider this and prepare some interpretation or a mandatory explanation of these objects.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u127	Dear Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u128	Of the three possibilities of legalisation, the possibility of legalisation is also for facilities built before 1. 1. 1998. For these facilities it is possible to obtain a permit if they meet certain conditions; and I am sure that these facilities which were built at the time allow all these conditions. This authorisation is conditional, but this does not mean that this condition is of such scope that it is possible to withdraw such authorisation. It is a matter of protecting the public interest if, at any time later, it turns out that such a legalized facility is environmentally hazardous. Dear Member, I would say, however, that if the facility was built in accordance with the legislation in force at the time of the restoration in Posoča, it is not illegal, I apologize. This I assure you, I do not want to look more closely at anything, because the facilities built in accordance with the law are legal. What was the responsibility of an investor to build such a facility was laid down in the law. And if I understand you correctly, there are no problems for such investors in the administrative unit, and they are also granted leave for damages or other procedures. And if I understood you correctly, you explained to me that there are problems at the Eco Fund, which I think is possible to solve with the conversation. But I would really like one of the mayors to give me at least one concrete example, because when we make this deal, we just have to rely on certain data. In general, I assure you this, but for these legal facilities built after the 1976 earthquake, we cannot solve things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u129	Mr. Daniel Krivec, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u130	Thank you. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the Minister's reply be discussed because I see that certain things are not understood and simplified. I have a record in my hands between the mayors and the ministry from May 2015 and 2016 when you discussed how to solve the matter. You are talking about specific cases, I assure you that specific cases have been where I myself have tried to solve with the Eco Fund; but if the tender is conditional on a usable permit for the facility, these facilities cannot run. And when they went to the administrative units, the reference was – in accordance with the legislation, do the procedure as if they were blacksmiths. And this is unacceptable, I assure you, because these facilities are built with some valid documentation, which was prescribed by the law at the time. And there is no need to re-order documentation from designers, to do the whole process because they were built at some point in time in accordance with the law on the acceleration of construction in Posoč, volume 1976, 1977; and in accordance with the site documentation or conclusions on wall plans adopted as a separate settlement. But because of the bureaucratic stiffness and misunderstanding of the ministry, I see that even ministers, these people will be paying back the documentation for which they had already been recovered, in line with the earthquake’s reconstruction at that time. It is true that those leased loans for inflation were paid quickly at the time, but the documentation was included in the earthquake recovery of the facilities at the time. And all these editing facilities had some sort of legal basis for most of them. And now you are asking these people to behave the same as ordinary blacksmiths, because the law that is now on the table that we have adopted and will enter into force with 1. 1. there is no relief in this case. And I say this is inappropriate, and I believe that someone else will initiate another procedure. But I will not comment on what the mayors and individual investors will do. I want this to be discussed, because I see that some of the legal bases are not understood.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u131	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. We continue to ask questions from the Members of Parliament. Mr Jožef Horvat will ask the Minister of Public Administration, Mr Boris Koprivnik. Here you go, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister of Public Administration and Vice-President of the Government, Mr Boris Koprivnikar, I welcome you! Mr. Minister, we're rehearsing or rehearsing classes. That's just the way it is if we don't do the class right. In my firm belief, there is a violation of Article 11 of the Slovenian Constitution by introducing an application in administrative units that provides, inter alia, an output or a certificate of administrative service. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides in Article 11 that the official language in Slovenia is Slovenian and in the areas of the municipalities in which the Italian or Hungarian national communities live is Italian and Hungarian in addition to Slovenian. First of all, Mr Minister, honourable colleagues and colleagues, my question to the Minister for the second time, to stress that the only motive that I repeat the question of the Member is to believe, exclusively, that the majority of the Slovenian people and the Italian and Hungarian national communities should continue to be co-existed. Mr Minister, also paragraph 2 of Article 62 of the Administrative Procedure Act, provides that in the areas of the municipalities where, in addition to the Slovenian language, the official language is also Italian or Hungarian, the administrative procedure shall be carried out in the Slovenian language and the language of the national community if the party submits a request in that language on the basis of which the procedure is initiated or if the party so requests at any time during the proceedings. It is therefore a very clear determination in which cases and in which areas in Slovenia the administrative authorities must operate only in the Slovenian language or also in the language of the national community. The only criterion for this is the area where the individual national community resides; and not the seat of the administrative authority and its local office, which performs its tasks in the bilingual area. I repeat, with effect from 1 January this year, a new computer application came into force and was tested last autumn. If I am today, which somehow gravity into the administrative unit of Lendava and come from a pure Slovenian village and municipality, I do not get a Slovenian certificate of administrative service performed, but I get bilingual; this naturally causes discomfort, ill will and fills the books with complaints. These books in the administrative units were now more or less full of praise, and now there are complaints. Mr. Minister, we must be in our positions, so I understand, we have a task and a duty to work for the people and do what the Slovenian Constitution says. And I'm asking you again.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u133	Minister Boris Koprivnikar, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u134	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Member, thank you for this question. If you'll allow me to be funny in your style. We don't repeat our class. It's not over yet. Just in December, we expect an amendment to the government regulation, as I have assured you. This Regulation will provide the basis for the use of Slovenian language in a bilingual area if the certificate is issued to a party who has used the Slovenian language and has acceded to the authority or does not explicitly state that it wants another. This regulation, which is now under preparation, is the fruit of your first question, and this regulation will provide the basis for a bilingual certificate to be issued to someone in the bilingual area. In view of what you are saying about legal bases, you know them well and know that the General Administrative Procedure Act does not lay down these legal bases for bilinguality and that the Administrative Regulation provides in Article 223 where this is issued. When you speak this way, if I understand that it is a violation of the constitutional principle that we issue a Slovenian and Hungarian decision to you as a Slovenian; it is not a violation of your constitutional principle because you have received your decision in the Slovenian language, and it is also written in Hungarian. Now it will be possible to get it only in the Slovenian language, but it is necessary to create a legal basis for it. This is what we agreed on, and we will actually do it. However, this is an arrangement that has actually been implemented since 2000-2002, and I have indicated here when individual acts have been adopted. There has never been a dispute, there has never been a dispute, and this is the only wish we are now making in a way that will only be possible in a bilingual area to obtain a unanimous statement. However, I cannot agree that someone who receives a Slovenian-Hungarian decision or a Slovenian-Italian decision considers that he is in violation of the constitutional principle that he has received a Slovenian decision. Because he received Slovenian, but it is also written in another language, such as the Constitution and the law. But we're going to make it better. This is now possible with the computer programme, and we expect this to be established at the beginning of next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u135	Mr. Joseph Horvath, you have the floor to request a complete reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, you have really cheered me up now, and I can't wait for this regulation to see the light of the world. You know that the heads of the administrative units, which you also know well – Izola, Koper, Piran, Murska Sobota and Lendava – have also given you the initiative to adopt an authentic interpretation of Article 62 of the General Administrative Procedure Act, which stipulates, quote, “in an area of municipalities where, in addition to the Slovenian language, Italian and Hungarian, the administrative procedure runs in the Slovenian language and the language of the national community, if a party makes a request in that language on the basis of which the procedure begins, or if it is required at any time during the procedure.” That's what I highlighted in the first part of my question. There is also, we both know, the Law on State Administration, Article 4. As far as I'm concerned, your ministry has rejected this initiative of the above-mentioned administrative units for the authentic interpretation of the law. If you may be able to explain why there is no need for this, however, when the legislator could precisely lay down the provisions of those laws, i.e. the Law on General Administrative Procedure and the Law on State Administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u137	Minister Koprivnik, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u138	I regret that you did not mention in this question that you would better prepare yourself for the reasons and circumstances of the authentic explanation and of the views of that time. Right now, I can't tell you from my head exactly what the reasons were. But the fundamental issue of the initiative is that bilingualism determines the rights of minorities. It has never been denied that in a bilingual area we should only have a unilateral Slovenian decision, because this is the subject of the matter we are talking about. Therefore, the regulation also establishes a legal basis, because in the current regime we have to work bilingually in the bilingual area. Moreover, the right to another language is, as you can see, also the universal right of a minority, because in all proceedings before official bodies in bilingual areas the party has the right to demand that minority languages also be run. As far as the authentic explanation is concerned, I do not know how to give you any more detailed reasons, but I think that we have answered your question once the regulation is ready. We are not substantively opposed to this, but the way of rescue may be a little different from what the chiefs predicted. As well as the administrative units and the complaints of the chiefs; I regularly meet with them, work with their working groups, visit them, measure the satisfaction of the users, and if this problem were wider, I would certainly not have noticed it; but I did not. The fact is that this problem has already been resolved, and only the process has to be completed. Authenticity in the National Assembly or the amended government regulation requires the procedure to be carried out, prepared and when it is done, we will both be satisfied, including our Slovenians.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u139	We continue with Mr Tomaž Lisc's question, which will be addressed to the Minister of Health, Mrs Marija Milojka Kolar Celarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u140	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister, it's good to see you. I hope you're well at this time. I'll ask you a few questions about the execution of the emergency medical service. Madam Minister, you probably remember how quietly you wanted to regulate and amend the Emergency Medical Regulation at the end of 2013. At that time, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we launched a shouting and screaming, and called for an urgent meeting of the Health Committee. At the small hall in Šubičeva, there were about 30 directors of health care homes there that day, as well as about 30 mayors who had a lot of comments about this draft regulation. Then you only adopted this Regulation at the end of 2015. This Regulation not only refers to the implementation of the emergency medical service in the field but also to the dispatch service as well as to emergency medical assistance by means of a helicopter. Dear Minister, I have a few questions in the first phase. According to this regulation, which I have before me, and according to the first annex, this is a network of emergency medical units, I am interested in: How many comments have you received from various directors and mayors as well as other health workers since the adoption of the Regulation have they considered inadequate arrangements for emergency medical care? How's the dispatch? Otherwise, we have heard you talk several times about how the system works, but when I was last in the Sevnica Health Center, they said that not only with them, but with many people who are involved in emergency medical care, they find that this dispatch service is not yet fully operational, in order to regulate the most optimal emergency medical care. And the third thing I'm going to end up with is helicopter emergency medical care. I have an article here that says you'll be with 1. 1. 2018 beside Brnik also activated Maribor. And I'm curious, even on the basis that you were in Posav last week: Do you see the airport of Cerklje as one of the possibilities from which helicopter emergency medical care could be provided even in the coming months or subsequent years? So much for the intro. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u141	Dear Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u142	Well-welcome, distinguished Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament; in particular Mr Lisec! Thank you for the question. It is true that at the end of 2015 we adopted a new Regulation on emergency medical care, which had not been regulated until then. We needed this rule because, as you know, we have built 10 emergency centres with the help of European funds and therefore the rules on the operation of emergency medical care have to be regulated. As you know, with the team of the Ministry of Health, I have practically travelled all over Slovenia, met with many mayors, directors of health homes, doctors who carry out this responsible task of emergency medical care. In fact, the final form of the Regulation adopted did not interfere in any way with the existing network and the organisation of this emergency medical assistance system. This Regulation has been adopted in this form for reasons precisely because, on the basis of the field interviews, it has been found that there are very high doubts as to the accuracy of the data on the number and the urgency of the treatment of patients. And because we were aware of this and because we are still aware today that the system of emergency medical care is very sensitive to the health of the endangered population; networks and rules have not changed. However, we have introduced some new builders, which I have already mentioned, the start of the operation of the emergency centres, the introduction of the first emergency medical providers, then we have also established rules for the implementation of healthcare at events, which until then has not been regulated, and we have complemented the emergency ambulance network, which we have provided an additional EUR 3 million. You mentioned dispatch. Indeed, the smooth and more effective functioning of all emergency centres is of course important. By the way, we recently managed to provide and build additional facilities in the Ljubljana Emergency Centre for Internist First Aid after six years. Let me say it with joy, too, because for the first time in Slovenia and even in this larger environment, we will be able to try to open the Maribor dispatch service in January next year, which will test for the area of Maribor and the surrounding area. We also joined and are already producing a dispatch centre within UKC Ljubljana, which is expected to open 2018. It has also been prepared and published in the Official Journal on 20 October of the Regulations on the Medical Control Service, since this is a completely new activity in Slovenia. Let me say that we have successfully completed the first call for the staff of the dispatch centre in Maribor in these days, that we have also successfully performed the calls. You need to know that there is a very difficult information support and information system for the dispatcher. And only then will we be able to talk about actual export data for emergencies, on which we will then be able to prepare a comprehensive network of emergency medical care in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u143	Mr. Tomaž Lisec, you have the floor to request a complete reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u144	Thank you for a fairly correct introduction to my questions. With regard to the emergency medical care network, you are quite pleased. After two years, the dispatch service, especially in Ljubljana and Maribor, began to work more effectively. Of course, the health system in Slovenia is not only UKC Ljubljana and UKC Maribor, i.e. in the two largest cities in Slovenia, but we are also residents of other parts. That's why I'm interested in what I did before, and you didn't answer. How's the helicopter emergency medical? Besides having what we have on Brunika, 1 / 1 1. gets Maribor his helicopter emergency medical care. I want to know: Does the government think about any other center? As a matter of fact, it is likely that some kind of service would be useful somewhere in Primorsk, and you were alone in Posavje. The airport of Cerklje meets all the conditions for having quality helicopter emergency assistance. That's what I'm interested in. The next thing I'm interested in is satellite emergency centres, which are also defined by the Emergency Medical Services Regulation, and there's no way to track this. Why am I talking about a satellite emergency center? The Municipality of Sevnica has been working since the beginning of the adoption of the Emergency Medical Service Regulation to strengthen emergency medical care teams, but there is no specific positive response from the Ministry. The last time I visited the health director's home, all of a sudden all available vehicles of emergency medical care went into the field. For two and a half hours, people in two full waiting rooms were waiting because the congregation, especially the director, was tirelessly sending the ERs about the justification for obtaining emergency medical care status; but there was no positive response. So I want to know: When's the answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u145	Madam Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u146	Thank you for the supplementary question. First of all, with regard to the helicopter emergency. Mr. Member, the Maribor base has been operating for over six months. We will continue with the bases of helicopter emergency medical care in Brnik and Maribor. At its meeting last week, the government adopted three important decisions relating to the implementation of the HNMP, namely the definition of this helicopter emergency medical assistance as well as secondary transport, which are the transport of infants, and these urgent cases to be carried out by national aircraft; namely, the aircraft of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Interior. For this reason, at the Ministry of Health we have prepared an amendment to the Regulation on the conditions for the implementation of the HNMP. The Ministry of Infrastructure has corrected the regulations on airworthiness and a decision has also been taken to establish an inter-ministerial working group proposing a long-term regulation of HNMP and secondary transport in Slovenia. With regard to dispatch centres, let me tell you, as I have said many times before, why there are not yet these satellite emergency centres, the so-called SUCs, which were originally designed precisely because we were unable to rely on the credibility and reality of the data on which criteria and criteria could be equally and evenly distributed by the SUC in Slovenia, so that all residents will have equal access, including in terms of specificity and relief conditions. Here, let me make a special point, as I have said many times before, Tolmin, and Sevnica is such an example. But, as I said, this dispatch must start to work, so that we will have credible and credible data, so that we will have the same meter and treat access equally to all citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u147	Tomaž Lisec, you have the floor to request a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u148	Thank you. You know, when it comes to health care, it is not a question that should divide policies into lefts, rights, ours, yours; it should share policies with those who strive to improve the health care system in Slovenia, or with those who want to keep the system as it is. From this place thanks for the fairly correct answers, but I personally think that questions such as: where and in what way a quality network of emergency medical care services; the question of how to do the most effective dispatcher service. Just a call, how many places do we have in Slovenia with the same name; and there are still unloved mistakes. I think it's right to talk about that, too. I think it is also right to talk about what kind of helicopter emergency you are in Slovenia not only we want, but also what we will be able to have; because it is not only a matter of your ministry, but also of both ministers sitting next to and behind you. Let's say I'm personally interested in the question of whether there is a possibility in Slovenia or if there is a possibility of helicopter emergency medical care anywhere else at night. Since the last letter shows that helicopter emergency medical care does not begin until eight o’clock or changes from sunrise to sunset according to summertime. I wonder if it is possible to arrange this helicopter emergency medical assistance even more, to bring it closer to people, especially at the time of the night when serious traffic accidents are identified, as well as to remain difficult health and life situations; or whether it is possible to deal with this. And speaking of these satellite emergency centres, I think it is right for all citizens to have equal access to emergency medical care. Personally, I have no problem with having everything that belongs to them, but if we just look at the Sevnica case and the Krško case. Krško is once closer to the emergency center of Brežica, and according to this network has many more teams, DS1, DS2 and everything else. Is that optimal, as you said? At least in Sevnica, I have no doubt about the accuracy of the data given to our employees in the health care system. I think that in the area of health, we must not divide citizens into first-class and second-class health care; but we must provide everyone with first-class emergency medical care. On this basis, I propose that the next meeting discuss the issue of the implementation of emergency medical assistance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u149	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 12 December, in the framework of the votes. Mr Franz Breznik will ask the question of the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Peter Gasperšić. Mr. Breznik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u150	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of Infrastructure! I have before me a document that speaks of the energy concept of Slovenia until 2050. My asked question concerns the electricity supply of Slovenia in the coming years. What you're doing in this field in the energy concept, I find quite a few phrases talking about sustainability in particular by the Krška Nuclear Power Plant until 2043, so for 20 years we should move the operation of the nuclear power plant. On the other hand, as you know, we are experiencing major problems with the operation of TES 6, major stoppages, cracks that have not yet been explained. On the other hand, we have great problems with different consensus, especially the Ministry of the Environment, for wind power plants, and on the third hand, we have many alternative energy concepts that Slovenia has not even begun to build. As an example, I refer to geothermal power plants that could be built in the Prekmurje area, where we have great geothermal potential. Thirdly, the energy concept speaks about energy efficiency, about co-natural efficiency, particularly about reducing fossil energy. It also speaks of the introduction of so-called alternative energy concepts, i.e. new energy concepts that are co-natural. I'm asking you: What is the vision of this government by the end of this mandate in this area, in particular with regard to energy self-sufficiency? This government announced that in 2030 Slovenia will no longer allow the first registration of vehicles with internal combustion engines. Dear Minister of Infrastructure, will we have sufficient energy self-sustainment in Slovenia in 2030 if there are predictions that Europe will increase the production of electric cars in the coming years, not just electric cars, including trucks, trucks and, above all, vehicles for urban and out-of-town transport? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u151	Dr. Peter Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u152	Thank you, President, for your word. Thank you, too, Mr Franz Breznik, for raising an extremely current issue, which also refers to a very important document, the Energy Concept of Slovenia, which is currently under public scrutiny until mid-January. In this document, the Government intends to draw up a development strategy by 2030 and a vision for energy development by 2050. Your question, which you are addressing with regard to self-sufficiency, would say at the outset that we cannot compare this with the security of supply. You probably want to say that this is a hundred percent supply of electricity from domestic sources. Slovenia is already fully providing not all its electricity from domestic sources, but a smaller part of it is also provided by imports. This is very important because with these cross-border transmission capacities we can provide the necessary electricity even in the event of the failures of certain production units in Slovenia, either with repairs or with the failures or tests that we witness in TES. In this way our electricity system ensures security of supply all the time. With regard to self-sufficiency, however, the energy concept gives a vision of development where we want to ensure and reduce or minimize this dependence on imports to the greatest extent possible. We can ensure this by providing our own production units. And here we have to make a major effort, especially in terms of the planned decarbonisation or decarbonisation of electricity production, because we know that around 2050 coal stocks are planned to be exhausted in Chestnut; and production capacities will have to be stopped there. These energy sources will have to be replaced with others. Here's our main effort to do this with renewable energy. Future activities will go in this direction; in Slovenia, in particular, they are key maximum use where possible, where all the restrictions we face allow this, the use of water energy and, of course, wind, solar energy. You also mentioned the geothermal potential for electricity production, perhaps in Slovenia these conditions are not even the most ideal, but geothermal energy can be used for heat supply. Of course, we will have to work on these matters in the future. However, it must be said that the market for investment in production units is liberalised, which means that investments everywhere in Europe, including Slovenia, are left to private, private initiatives. These investments are not carried out by the State, they can be encouraged by certain programmes of a particular production unit and, in principle, the decision for a particular power plant depends on a private initiative. This means that certain power plants can be built if their economic eligibility is demonstrated and this is conditioned by different factors, in particular the key price of electricity on the market. And this will also dictate future activities in investments in new power plants. This will ensure this self-sufficiency in the future. The issue of nuclear power was also mentioned. You know that under certain conditions it is agreed with the Republic of Croatia that the operation of the existing block can be extended until 2043, and at that time it will also be necessary to prepare all the necessary documents, analyses how nuclear energy can continue after this period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u153	Mr. Franz Breznik, you have the floor to request a complete reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u154	You gave me some answers that were very general. I separate, one is sufficient self-sustainment from its own energy sources, the other is the stability of the system, but on the one hand, I want to say that in the energy concept, you are not following the goal of electricity being set in 2030, that electricity will play a major role, especially in transport, and that electricity consumption will also rise dramatically, even in those countries from which we are relatively cheap today buying electricity or transporting it in the event of failure. As you said, we already have a problem with self-sustainment in case of electromobility, especially after 2022. Most manufacturers in Germany, with whom I am in good relations or contacts, predict the arrival of electric vehicles, not only hybrid or hybrid vehicles with plugs, but mainly clean electric vehicles with new batteries, with a so-called hard electrolyte, which predicts a transition of up to 800 kilometres with one charge lasting several minutes. So a hundred percent increase in capacity at the same size and weight of batteries. It's predicted, we could say, the whole revolution in the coming years. Above all, in 2030, this electrical mobility will play a major role. That's why this problem is because this concept doesn't follow it. The problem is not to discuss whether we are going to build a second block of nuclear power plant, that the Ministry of the Environment, your colleague, can literally destroy any initiative at wind power plants, imposes new bureaucratic obstacles. In the area of geothermal power plants, which could be built in Prekmurje, where a compromise with the civil initiative against the Muri hydropower plants could also be observed, there is very little work to do. Therefore, with the questions put forward, I encourage us to start talking more about this and to get a number of answers to these questions; because time will be ahead of us, Prime Minister-respected.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u155	Minister Peter Gasperšič, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u156	By the arrival of electric vehicles in our rolling stock, certain changes are actually expected for the electricity system as well. We have also dealt with these issues within the framework of the concept in interviews with electricity distributions, including production units. Over the next few years, the development of electricity distribution networks will also need to be enormous. The so-called smart grids that will be able to properly manage scattered production units, such as some photovoltaic solar power plants, which can also be installed on the roofs of their homes, are such a case of scattered electricity production. At the same time, there will be an increase in the number of electric cars, which will also be important distributed electricity consumers. All these requirements, which will burden the network, will need to be properly managed. These investments, these changes have been addressed in the preparation of this energy concept. Of course, we will also have to do a great deal to reduce the use of electricity itself. Effective energy use in this area, we are working intensively, and in particular the emphasis is placed on reducing the use of buildings for heating, I am talking about energy rehabilitation of buildings. Here we have great potential to reduce this use of energy and thus not only increase our consumption but also try to keep it within certain limits; and, as we say, as many renewables as possible. I agree that we have a number of problems with protected areas, but I am sure that we will be able to find a common language here, a dialogue to accommodate these indispensable hydropower plants. We're talking about exploiting the remaining potential on the Sava River. I am sure that the Mura River can also be used in a way that will be useful for the environment, agriculture and will also provide an opportunity for energy use. And here is the wind, which is also an important potential in certain areas of Slovenia, and so far we have not been able to take advantage of it. We are working at the Ministry, and we are looking forward to making some significant movement in this area as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u157	Mr. Franz Breznik, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u158	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. As a procedural proposal under the Rules of Procedure, I would like to hold a broader debate on this subject in order to include the Ministry of Finance in this debate in addition to the Ministry of Infrastructure. I would like to stress the encouragement of people to build such a kind of power plant. In recent years, the Germans have built a huge number of wind power plants, including new concepts of thermal power plants with major problems. In addition, solar energy, geothermal energy. So they're looking for concepts because they realize that electromobility is here. I can tell you from reliable sources that even the presentation of vehicles with a fully electric drive is hidden by manufacturers. So Mercedes-Benz – a while ago I looked at one of their labs. This will be a shock, preparing, we can say, in strict secrecy, these vehicles in response to America, which strongly encourages Tesla. After 2022, 2021 these vehicles will be available in a higher, medium segment and then we need to have alternatives. First of all, building smart grids, as you said, due to dispersion, trends are that you produce local electricity, wherever possible, even biogas plants at a number of regional waste dumps. This makes you less use of networks, shorter distances of networks, less formal voltage downsizing on this network, less network payers, and, on the other hand, electricity consumption will increase tremendously. When we talk about the energy efficiency of buildings, we need to know that on the other hand, the heating of buildings decreases over fossil fuels and everyone goes to heat pumps, despite having a large number of COPs. So for basic heating you still need electricity and electricity consumption also increases when heating your own house, on the other hand we are lucky that LED lights also come into public lighting and everything else and therefore electricity falls. But I think, and many experts, that it would only be a new block of nuclear power plant if we built it without Croats and would be over one terawatt, almost too small for electricity mobility in 2030. So, serious projects are ahead of us, serious incentives should be from the Ministry of Finance, so that public or public-private partnerships can build the concepts of a number of power plants, as well as at the Ministry of Environment and Space will have to be seriously encouraged not to impose new bureaucratic barriers to their own electricity supply. Our own supply of electricity also means a quality and competitive economy, because once the price of electricity rises, we will pay expensive electricity from imports and then we need relatively cheap electricity for our own economy, not just for electricity mobility [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mr Breznik, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 12 December, in the framework of the votes. Mr Miha Kordiš will ask the Minister of Health, Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u160	Thank you for your word, chairman. The public debate on the law on long-term care has recently ended. People are concerned that after the new home and care they will have to pay more than they have been paid by now, and the cost of home care for a large number of people is already too high. One-bedroom room, say, in Ljubljana comes EUR 632 or more, while the average pension is EUR 619. You know very well that most pensioners receive less than an average pension and suffer poverty. They hit energy poverty, they don't think they're hot to warm up in these winter days, they're moving them out of their homes because they don't have money. Well, there's nothing better for those who have a little higher pension. How can these people survive with such pensions, as long as they pay their household bills, preferably at the price of spent time? The purpose of the new long-term public benefit would be to lower home and supply prices rather than to raise those prices. Nevertheless, the Community accounts of social health institutions say the opposite, so virtually all providers should pay more and no less. In particular, the supply category 1 is now €699 and a thousand €165 would be added. That's 465 euros. Where do people get this money? That's why I'm interested, Madam Minister. Do these calculations hold and will living in nursing homes under the new law really be encouraged? Of course, socialists are strongly opposed to any incitement. Instead of further burdening the caregivers, it is necessary to drive a fairer charge than you are proposing in this law. I am therefore interested in the following: Why will those who have higher income not pay higher taxes? This would be some kind of fair taxation, as progressive as income. I also want to know: Why are you introducing a social income cap that exceeds three times the average wage? These are exactly the incomes that should be absorbed and burdened with this giving, while those lowest incomes are burdened. And the last thing I want to know is: Why will the duty be charged only to the income from work, rather than also to cover passive income from capital and property? Because now we can have a renter who lives on 300 flats who doesn't work and will contribute exactly anything, and he's a rich guy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc will answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u162	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear Member Miha Kordiš, thank you very much for this question, because it is misused or manipulated by the public, as well as by calculations. First of all, the answer to your first question is whether the Community calculations of the social health institutions, which want to show that the expenditure of an individual under the proposal for a long-term care law whose public debate has ended, will be higher than they are today. I firmly deny it, and I say it's not true. Why isn't he holding? The Community of Social Health Institutions also included in its calculations the long-term care resources received from the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance for Health Care, which is not carried out in long-term care. According to the law, health care costs for acute treatment and illness will remain subject to compulsory health insurance payments, i.e. the Institute of Health Insurance. And that is why it is very unfair, or if you want unfairly to users, currents and futures, to include in these calculations something that will remain the expenditure of compulsory health insurance. The Community is also an example of a user receiving an aid and service allowance. Let's say that this supplement is not being abolished, but is being merged and means a long-term benefit, because we need to know that for long-term care as a comprehensive integrated service, which is part of the social and health services as part of the current system, only those health services that help or are necessary for the day-to-day delivery of tasks or for the life of an individual are being transferred. This also transfers this part of the funds from the health treasury to the cashier’s long-term care. In view of all the above, the financial burdens for most users in these five categories, in which they will be classified by a single assessment tool, are actually decreasing. This is said to mean that, in particular, those with lower incomes will have to be given less out of their pocket or self-paid than they are today. In doing so, it should be pointed out that all beneficiaries of long-term care will receive additional so-called care or self-sustainment services financed from public funds, to which they are not eligible today, in particular those who will be able to benefit from adequate home care in the future, which is also one of the basic objectives of the bill in order to be more comparable to other countries, as it supports users to remain in the home environment until the stage where possible, and to provide them with adequate assistance and, if you wish, financial compensation. Therefore, an additional 110 million is needed, representing 0.48% of the insurance base, and this is the answer to another question, respected by Mr Kordiš, in fact progress in the law has been introduced, and I will tell you what these amounts mean for pensioners and other employees in the following reply. However, as to why passive income is not included in this base, I must say that only administration and the administrative burden on the inclusion of passive income in this base is so administratively difficult and complicated that we remain in this proposal together in coordination with the Ministry of Finance. And then there's the rest of the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mr. Miha Kordish, will you request a further reply? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u164	Thank you for your word, chairman. As for the claim that the Community calculation of social security institutions does not hold, let me just point out here that there are no simulations in the draft law, and what I would like is for you to give me your calculations in writing, because, you know, in politics someone believes that this is a calculation I would like to receive in an email and in Levica we will look at what is on this. [[…]] As far as the three specific questions I have raised are concerned, I still think that progress is too low or that things are at a level where we cannot make progress, perhaps you will enlighten me in the second part of your response. Absolutely, those who have more should also contribute more, without a pardon. As with income, this is, after all, called basic solidarity. I still want to know why you are introducing a social income cap that exceeds three times the average wage, and I repeat that it is precisely these incomes that need to be first captured and most burdened, and from these sources to relieve those with the worst incomes that afflict poverty. However, as far as income from work and not income from capital and property is concerned, I do not think that this is administratively difficult, but it is a very harsh excuse for capital and the rich to avoid their fair contribution to society for a secure age. And if that doesn't work out, we're going to get another benefit from the concept of supplementary health insurance, which we know is both socially unfair and completely ineffective, and commercial insurance companies cut off one big piece. Socialists support a solidarity security charge, of course, provided that the allowance from the pocket for most people does not increase, but increases, as supply prices and home prices are already significantly too high for a huge part [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mrs. Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u166	Thanks for the extra questions. I'll continue where I left off. As I have already said, part of health services are being transferred to long-term care services and services will be transferred to future services of this treasury, around 114 million. All other care services remain in the basket and will be financed from compulsory health insurance. However, in order to be able to provide funding from public funds in a solidarity way from long-term cash supply, it will be necessary to provide EUR 110 million in respect of these rights and these additional services, to which all debtors or long-term care providers will be entitled. This €110 million will be provided in a solidarity manner, amounting to 0.48% of the insurance base. Given the size of these revenues, pensioners would pay from 1.4 euros to 19.8 euros, employees, self-employed from 4.3 to 31.6 euros – I am talking now about the law that was in public debate to clear this up first with these proposals. You know that this burden has been borne by the State, either by the local community or by the state budget. It is said that the proposed method is progressive, is solidarity since it uses a percentage. It is true that there is a ceiling or cap somewhere, for it is necessary to know that solidarity cannot be, if you want to say, indefinitely or in the widest of diapazones, I would say, these incomes. The same is true for a particular, or smaller, pensioner population. Now, just as far as voluntary insurance is concerned, it is not exactly what you claim, because this is not an insurance supplement, here only allows the possibility of real voluntary insurance for long-term care in cases where insurance products can be replaced by the will of the individual and insured by the insurance company for what should be paid out of the pocket itself. It's, like, I don't know, a food service or a place to stay. This is the way they have been established in all other countries, these are hotel services.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Please proceed with procedure, Mr. Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u168	Thank you, Chairman. On the subject of the new law, I would like a public debate. I think this marriage is bad, but in fact, the Minister has just further substantiated her fears. The use of a percentage is not a progressive charge, it's called flat tax, so everyone pays the same percentage, no matter how much their assets come in. It is also a deeply socially unfair social cap, so that those who receive three times the average wage do not pay anything or are not considered as additional income from there. These are usually the best paid, richest people in our society, and they should be the ones that should be the ones that should be the most involved and the most burdensome. In particular, it is disputed that capital and assets have emerged from the financing of the new long-term supply. And I just don't buy an argument that it's administratively too difficult to calculate. Look, this is where some huge incomes of rich people come in, but the social states don't serve anything. A class of tenants has been multiplied, which owns no number of the various properties it gives away, and this is not what it pays for in income — why? Because these are incomes that are not incomes from work but are pensions and are not thus included in solidarity schemes, they would not even be included in the long-term supply law and, of course, this is wrong. A handful of individuals accumulate in their hands vast wealth, social security institutions, nursing homes, if you want, but they are underfunded, and human resources are understaffed, not saying that they are too expensive for a lot of caregivers. Right now, just after what's about to happen. So I certainly want to discuss this in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mr Kordish, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 12 December, in the framework of the votes. MrBojan Podkrodšek will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Dr Anji Kopač Dark.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u170	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! My parliamentary question will concern the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities in the Republic of Slovenia. Dear Minister, in the introduction, do not be afraid that this issue concerns the Minister of Agriculture. In Slovenia, according to recent data, the size of the farm is 7 hectares. I noticed that on average, the door closes or ends up farming almost 1.5 or two farms a day. Of course, I mean that these are small farms, but I would ask you about the status of farmers who live and work on these farms. I have seen this issue, I think, in October 2017, the farmer was asked by the Minister of Agriculture. After the last census of the population, this status is not covered at all, so there is no farmer after that census. However, we all know that a farmer who works on a farm, especially on these small farms, does not even go to work, plays an important role on the farm, raises children, cares for the family, so it is important for these small farms, which, due to our Slovenian specification, will never be large, are small because they are hilly. Most of the time, because of the difficult situation of this small farm, especially the financial farm, the farmer gives priority to all others, the host, the farmer, the children, and most often does not pay any monthly benefits or insurance. The biggest problem arises when the farmer is already in years and is not entitled to either pension or to any funds, and most often he is insured by his husband. That is why, Minister, I know that you are not responsible for this, but I would like your help, including the role of your ministry, to give these farmers their status in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Dr. Anja Kopač Dark, Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u172	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Thank you for asking. Otherwise, you could be more helpful with the answer if you got something more. I've got a question. I'm going to ask the Minister a question about the status of farmers. With regard to the status of farmers, I can reply that the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities is not competent to determine the status, as in this case concerns the agricultural issue, as you have already mentioned. I can only say that if we look at the legislation covered by the Ministry of Labour, there is no special status, but of course they are treated the same way as all other citizens. If I may say so, we had the greatest disadvantage in the system, because farmers, like craftsmen in the past, did not have the possibility of being included in pension and disability insurance, but this was eliminated and they had different statuses, and from the cooperative farmer of the other farmer, and this was regulated. They had the option of different statuses and also different coverages, so we had the possibility of insurance for a narrower and wider scope until 2012. As far as life is concerned, it is an important protection supplement. Like all other citizens, those who do not have sufficient resources in the insurance system, which is based on the payment from work – when we pay contributions for having an age in the system – have the option, i.e. if they are not in the insurance system to receive benefits from the social assistance system, because it is a redistribution by all citizens and citizens for those who do not have enough for different reasons and are, of course, equal. I understand that this is a specific issue, but here they are aligned with all other citizens and especially citizens if you refer to this status. As for the possibility of staying at home, caring for more children, the status is even. Women have this opportunity to decide to extend parental leave, have a shorter working time, and, of course, it is equivalent here. I am having a hard time discussing this, from the point of view of the Ministry of Labour's competence, I can only conclude that they are aligned here with all others, but if they were the specificity of the agricultural status itself, this is, of course, the responsibility of another department. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr. Bojan Podkoršek, will you request a further reply? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u174	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, of course it's easier for us to say from these seats that it's all arranged, but you can trust me that that's probably not the case. I repeat that I do not blame you for not having this status regulated. Especially when this farmer is older, she's not entitled to anything. We both know the relationship between this protective allowance, who is entitled and who is not, and what burden those who live with it or then inherit this property, the owner of which is also a farmer. You're also saying there's not enough information. I would appeal to you, and I would consult myself with those who get to know these things more than I do myself to obtain these data. Let me also tell you that the Union of Farmers of Slovenia accounts for over 6,000 500 members. I am firmly convinced that all farmers are not members, and this is a problem and this is a problem. Of course, I will stand by as a state-level MP and call on both of you, as well as the Minister of Agriculture, to examine this, to obtain this information and to prepare proposals for a law that would for the first time give this farmer his status, and for the second time, would not be left behind when she is old, herself and is in trouble. Once again, these women play an important role in these farms, and I think and believe, and I firmly believe that they deserve to see us all go together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Dr. Anya Digger Dark, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u176	Maybe just in principle. I agree that if this is a special status, it must be evaluated, also defined in relation to other social groups, so that I will not be here about the special situation. But perhaps I would point to the foundations of social security systems that are everywhere in Europe. It is that the first system of social insurance, where we pay – and also in your question or initiative, is based on the fact that – we contribute to the family, and basically there is one fundamental requirement that before the state takes care of someone, of course, within the family, first of all, the individual in the labour market is, in one way or another, trying to ensure survival through different statuses, then if he cannot, it is always a family concept, that is, as in social policy, taking into account the income of all family members, even on the farm is similar, and then only if the family fails to enter the redistributive work if you want, I will not say the country, but it is right to say that all citizens who contribute to it by paying taxes, and then the country makes a redistribution through the systems. Thus, a similar rule must apply to all social groups, namely, the individual, then the family and then the state enters. However, social security systems have been the most important since the 19th century, when we are paying into the system during an active period, because we can guarantee social security for a time when we cannot work. Here it would be particularly reasonable that if such farmers are not included in insurance – why not? Since 1983 – I think it was 1983, just to check – it is possible to include farmers in the compulsory insurance system before that, so there have been problems in our country. However, since then, this is possible and there are all the grounds for you to be able to protect yourself from the absence from the labour market, including in the case of age and disability, and it would be prudent to think primarily in this direction that all of these are included in this system, because this is the best way to ensure safe age and also responsible solidarity among all social groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Mahnic will ask the Minister of Defence Andreja Katič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u178	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Madam Secretary, colleagues, colleagues! A good week ago, on the Defence Committee, we discussed a proposal for a law on defence prepared and tabled by the Minister in the National Assembly. Before that, he had already been in the first reading, in the first reading, where a general discussion had been held. There were many comments, but the law was confirmed. He went on virtually unanimously. When there should be a second hearing, we voted that a public presentation of the opinions should be made before the second hearing. If I just sum up the four paragraphs that the Legal and Legislative Service, which on virtually 20 pages has been extremely critical of this law, wrote, we note the following. The Legislative and Legal Service points out that the explanation of the articles, which in most cases merely summarizes the content of the articles or makes reference to the regulation applicable to the police, makes it difficult or even makes it impossible to understand the provisions and their assessment already in the legislative procedure. They also wrote that the question is whether the content of the defence law corresponds to the framework laid down in Article 124, paragraph 1, of the Constitution. They further say that it is necessary to clarify and examine the extent to which the Minister leads not only the Ministry, but also the Slovenian Army, and to develop his attitude towards the General Staff, which is the body of the Ministry and at the same time the highest authority in the Slovenian Army. They also wrote — which is also problematic, of course, immediately after the fact that the law you are proposing is not in conformity with the Constitution — that they point out in relation to the law that it is unclear or unclear in some parts. We will probably talk a lot about this when there will be a public meeting when there is a presentation of positions, but I am interested, Madam Minister: Why haven't you drafted a law in three and a half years that would easily pass the parliamentary sieve? We see you have problems in your own coalition. I'm still wondering: Why did you not take into account the comments of veteran organisations, patriotic associations, the professional comments of retired generals, former directors of offices, former ministers? Why did you not coalitionly harmonise the bill and even disregard the proposals for the second reading expressed by the opposition? Do you still intend to insist on the bill you have drafted, or do you have no intention of withdrawing the law, and if you do not prepare a new one, at least leave it to the next government? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Minister Andreja Katič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u180	Thank you. Dear Vice President, all present! The Defence Act and consequently the Service Act in the Slovenian Army have been in preparation for the past two years. During this time, we followed all the procedures prescribed for legislative procedures, and after difficult inter-sectoral coordination the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has both the Defence Act and the Service Act in the Slovenian Army confirmed them and forwarded them to the procedure in the National Assembly. We had previously presented the starting points of both laws to all the parliamentary groups in the National Assembly and also the draft law to all the parliamentary groups, then we also explained the latter form to those parliamentary groups that wanted to accept us. If I rely on the opinion of the Law-Legal Service, their greatest observation is that, in their view, the law on defence should be the law on the system of national security which would address both the area of the Slovenian Armed Forces, the system of protection against natural and other disasters and the Slovenian Police. In preparing the Defence Act and also the Service Act in the Slovenian Army, we have followed fully the guidelines of the Constitution and also the concept of the current law. Clearly, this law is unconstitutional, we can answer only by having an unconstitutional law since 1994. We believe that in the additional explanations that we have provided to the Defence Committee, we have explained all of our responses to the legislative and legal services' comments and have prepared amendments accordingly, have been tabled by the coalition, have been tabled by opposition groups and, in fact, the opposition has made comments that it would like to have a certain voluntary reserve in addition to the Slovenian Army and the contractual reserve, and since everyone is also proposing the termination of trade unions, some other concrete amendments have not been adopted. What has already been stated in the debate in Parliament has been taken more or less into account, we have also explained what we have not taken into account, but of course we could explain this even more clearly if we were accepted by all the parliamentary groups. The answer to the question whether we insist on the proposal of this law – we insist on the proposal of this law, especially because it is also subject to the service law in the Slovenian Army. And anyway, the Slovenian defence system needs modern law and it is necessary to improve the position of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, namely soldiers and soldiers, who are included either as a permanent unit or as a contractual reserve. In addition, the Defence Act provides a supplement to prohibit strike and the Service Act in the Slovenian Army, then significantly improves the position of members of the Slovenian Army, both those already included in the system and those who would rejoin the system. Both laws are based on an analysis of the strategic review of the defence. The strategic review of the defence took place almost a year. In preparing the Law on Defence and the Law on Service in the Slovenian Army, both those working on the Strategic Review of Defence, representatives of the Slovenian Armed Forces and representatives of the administrative department of the Ministry participated. It is said that here too the army as an expert was very involved in the preparation. It is true that I am not entirely satisfied with the content, it is true that the law could be different if the coalition then adopted a proposal to make a strategic review of the entire security system, both the Slovenian police and the military and the forces involved in the system of protection against natural and other disasters, but we have seen for ourselves when the migration crisis occurred when the debate was about whether the military should be given additional powers, whatever division was in Slovenian society, regardless of the fact that the amendments to the law were then unanimously adopted here. We propose, we hope that the Defence Committee will call a public hearing as soon as possible, we will see what will be shown in the public presentation of the opinions, and, as I have always said, I am open to comments, we have taken into account what we have not, we have explained why not, and we have also presented this to all stakeholders. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Mr. Jan Mahnic, are you asking for an answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u182	Thank you, Vice President. I do not want to sound like a lawyer in the Law and Legal Service, but at least as far as this mandate is concerned, when I am a Member, we have always followed their recommendations in the SDS, and we have also pointed out their recommendations, their opinions, unfortunately, the coalition has repeatedly defeated them and, of course, has received a portion from the Constitutional Court. But it's not about that, it doesn't say that there's a law to be written that combines all the subsystems. When you were in our group last summer, when you promised us to get the law on the table last fall, we made it clear to you that, at least as far as the system of protection against natural and other disasters is concerned, it would be significantly more meaningful to regulate the law, the law on crisis management and management, but of course you left everything in it, even as far as labour law is concerned and so on. It is true that we did not adopt you before you introduced the law, but the reason why we did not adopt you – you know very well that there was a meeting of the Defence Committee that you did not come to, so our answer was to come to the Defence Committee first, and then we will accept you in the parliamentary group. This insistence, Madam Minister, on a law that will obviously not be adopted – given the fact that this has been announced by three parliamentary groups that have more than a third of the members of this national assembly, which is, of course, a condition, on the other hand, a two-thirds majority, that the law goes through – it makes no sense. I understand, however, that, unfortunately, there are no other defence results in this mandate, given that some important equipment, including helicopters, which are still essential to the rescue in the mountains, expires in 2019, if I say so at home, the deadline for use and we will have to open up this problem again. In short, the question is, you're obviously not going to remove it as your own. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mrs. Andreja Katič, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u184	The honourable Member, since you are also the president of the Defence Committee, is actually in your hands to determine the day when the public opinion should be presented, I hope that this will not delay as soon as possible, and then we can look together and together find answers to how to improve the laws if what we have prepared is not enough for you or the others to support the law. The law was adopted at first reading at a Parliamentary meeting and we followed what was said at the time, all these other issues were not raised. In fact, the legal and legal service is on the way to having the current defence legislation unconstitutionally. In fact, I find it difficult to follow this, but there are different views, we have also coordinated with the Government's legislative service, but there have never been any such concerns, we have coordinated with all the departments, and no such concerns have been expressed, comments have been made on the law of the patriotic and veteran organisation, the Faculty of Social Sciences, four individuals, never expressed such thoughts, so as to disagree with what you have said, but it is in your hands to convene a public presentation of opinions as soon as possible. I would also respond to the crisis management and management project, which was one of the government's strategic projects, which was successfully completed by the Ministry of Defence. Members here have also considered amendments to the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and on this basis also the modified role of the National Security Council secretariat in solving complex crises, but this is actually another area, not so much for defence, but they can be linked in some part. I would also respond to what has been said, as regards the assistance of the Slovenian Armed Forces, the support of the system of protection against natural and other disasters, as well as the Slovenian Police, we have adopted at that meeting a special article which allowed support to the Police during the migration crisis, in fact this article is still broken down in this bill. As regards assistance to civil protection, however, it was the expert opinion of all that this was well worked out in existing legislation, which was, last but not least, demonstrated in practice everywhere where they requested assistance from the Civil Protection Commander or through the Minister for the assistance of the Slovenian Armed Forces. So that the result of this law could certainly be different if we did a strategic review of national security, looked here at where there are several points of contact, but we stuck to the restriction of the Constitution, the powers it has under the Constitution of the Slovenian Armed Forces, and did not spread the subject, but we gave only as a supportal non-typical military task and support to other state authorities and civil protection. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anji Kopač Dark.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u186	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. All present, distinguished Madam Minister! I have repeatedly reminded you, the Government and the President of the Government in my parliamentary questions, and also on behalf of the Desus Group of Members of Parliament, of the problem of Zuif and other measures of freezing pensions that have severely affected the social security of the elderly since 2010. Pensions are therefore no longer reflected in the contributions paid and many pensioners are still very disadvantaged due to measures taken during the financial crisis. Many pensions have been suppressed under the poverty threshold as a result of these measures, and those below the poverty threshold have been further reduced. The partial or total suspension of pension coordination has exacerbated the problem of decent survival of many pensioners. More than 54% of pensioners had a pension of less than €600 at the end of October this year. The problem of the fairness of pensions, which should reflect the individual’s contributions to the pension system, has also opened up, and I am interested: How many persons have been deprived of their pensions from 2010 to the end of October 2017? What is the total amount for which all persons have been deprived of pensions and disability insurance measures from 2010 to the end of October this year? How many of the persons who had a pension of less than or equal to 600 euros at the end of October would have a pension of over 600 euros if there had been no pension freeze measures since 2010? I have also proposed to you, Madam Minister, to the President of the Government and to the Government, on behalf of the Desus Group, among other things, a measure to raise pensions to a level that pensions would achieve if there were no past pensions freeze. Since there has been no listening to Desus' proposals so far, last week, we tabled a proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance. The proposed amendment would eliminate the backlog of pensions from a time when savings measures were not coordinated. That's why I'm interested in answers to my questions. Thank you in advance for your answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Dr. Anya Kopač Dark, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u188	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly. Your Honor, thank you for asking. With regard to Zuyf, which was adopted in 2013, it was decided in the then government that it would not otherwise be possible to stabilise public finances in the Republic of Slovenia, and Desus, as a member of the then government, voted for Zuyf, who tried not to defend the then government that it was in line with the social groups. Because of the financial situation in the country at the time – and I hope that we will never again get into such a position that we will have to do what was done in 2012, 2013 in order to be able to decide our destiny and answer – it was just that Zujf was accepted. The attempt was to see all social groups participate similarly, unfortunately, in this very large financial crisis in our country. So Zujf’s non-coordination of pensions was affected, it was also unfortunately affected by the incomes of families, we can say that drasticly, then we record the only birth decline in 2013 due to intervention in children’s allowances, and others also due to the general crisis in the country. If you want, public servants have also been paid nominally and today we can all be extremely pleased that the situation in the country is significantly different, that we have economic growth and that we can tackle austerity measures. In our area, almost everyone has already been removed, unfortunately, still mothers have 90 percent maternity leave on maternity leave and not 100 percent, for large families we have not been agreed to put an end to this. In short, these are measures in force in our area. Unfortunately for no social group, we were unable to reverse the situation in order to pay back to families who did not receive child support to families who did not receive 100 % parental compensation. In the case of pensioners, we have achieved that, as far as the annual regression is concerned, all pensioners receive it, at the same time, in addition to harmonisation, which would be further agreed together in the government on a regular basis. If we look at the harmonisations themselves, they have been limited in recent years, but in the past and this year, 2016 and 2017, pensions have been harmonised more favourably than the systemic legislation requires. In 2016, the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016 and 2017, i.e. with ZIPRS, was harmonised by 1.03 instead of 04 as a regular harmonisation. At the same time, in 2017 it was also harmonised for 1.15, where it would be systemic if only the PIZ were to be viewed, for 1.1. In addition to the regular harmonisation of pensions, an extraordinary harmonisation of 1.1 is also agreed in 2018. In short, this is where you try as much as possible to maintain the real value of pensions. Unfortunately, in terms of non-compliance, pensions have been reduced and, of course, it is difficult to say that pensioners have not paid the price of this financial harmonisation. And if it were possible, it would be different for all other social groups — if it could be Santa Claus, of course, I would gladly do so. With regard to the data you wanted, on the PIZ in such a short time, from Friday to today, it was not possible to get as accurate data as you wanted, you will get them later. As far as non-compliance is concerned, of the 615 thousand pensioners, 567 thousand pensioners and pensioners were deprived of their pension coordination during the period of Zujf's existence and because of their actions to harmonise the pensions themselves. The alignments, as far as this is concerned, would have stopped. The financial impact of the non-alignment or minor harmonisation is estimated at EUR 376 000, a sum of annual savings from individual years between 2010 and 2017. Approximately – ZPIZ did make this data quickly – 34 thousand pensioners would have a pension of more than 600 euros at the end of October if there were no intervention measures. Let us not forget that this is also why we accepted that the lowest pension was raised to 500 euros, that is 52 thousand pensions and pensioners received a higher pension. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, would you like to complete your response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u190	As I note, although, as long as we know it has been a matter of deprivation, there has been no such calculations at the Ministry for so long. I believe that at least on the first question – because we know that at the end of October there were little more than 615 thousand pensioners, and I think that each one of them was deprived – gave an exact answer. That is also why I would ask that you give me a written reply to the rest, for obviously we will not receive this answer today. Of course, I should say that I believe that no nation deserves its own state if it is unable to provide a decent life for those who are no longer able to work or care for themselves. They certainly include many who are older. I can see that, despite the many promises made so far, your ministry has unfortunately failed to ensure a decent age for people, even though the poverty risk limit is €616, today more than half of the pension pensioners have a pension of less than €600. In 2016, despite high economic growth, more pensioners lived in poverty than in the year before. The law we have tabled to prevent pensioners from being deprived of their pension for the rest of their lives, and therefore I hope it will be accepted, and therefore I ask you to at least in writing then to provide an answer to this question, which, as I see today, you cannot answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Here you go, Dr. Anya Kopač Dark, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u192	The pension and the state, when we look at it, 615 thousand pensioners The height of the average pension is a matter of wages and systems that were established long before I took over the minister's post. [[…]] The fact is that the average salary in this country is probably the best criterion when compared to the average pension. And yes, with today's eyes, it is likely that mainly pension reform in 2000, when, instead of extending the working or retirement period, the landing by all those at the time was to replace the ratio of 75 or 83% at the time, falling and falling. The pension reform, which fell at the 2012 referendum, was the first to stop the trend of falling pensions in the replacement relationship, and this was then also adopted in the pension reform carried out by my predecessor. As a result, today pensioners who have retired in 2013 no longer fall under the replacement ratio. To bet that I am responsible for the state of the pensioners and that the situation is nothing more than a great populism. In accordance with our powers, we have drawn up a white book in this mandate, which is the basis for a further pension system, because in the end, if we do not provide intergenerational solidarity in the pension system, young people will be willing to pay in our pension system, probably from our pension system and from solidarity. And Mrs Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, we have accepted, including with Desus, that we have raised the lowest pensions on the initiative of the ZDUS, we have introduced changes on the protection supplement and what we have accepted relates mainly to older women. [[…]] You are well aware that the level of risk of poverty is 2 years ago, 2016 is the 2015 income data, and that all of these changes, which are now known two years later, will be collected in this way. We are all working together to set up, but there is not just one group, and that we are those who do not agree or we do not immediately say yes to proposals that are against the social security of these groups, and I do not want to agree to this place and strongly oppose it. As Minister of Labour, I am responsible for the pension system for all generations because the basic foundation is solidarity within the system and different concepts within the system need to be intergenerationally coordinated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, please, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u194	Madam Minister, in 2016, with such a high economic growth, the number of poor, elderly people is your responsibility and there is no other responsibility. The fact that it has been neglected in all these years, what has happened to the elderly who have been deprived of all these years, is also your direct responsibility. But I apologize for taking advantage of this third part. Thank you very much, and I accept, if necessary, any reminders or anything like that.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u195	It was an abuse. Mr Luka Mesec will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnificent Nutrition. Diane Jedhan. The Minister is absent, so please identify yourself to the way you respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u196	Thank you for your word and a nice hello! To the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food Dejan Židan, who has not been in the meeting for the second time since the last three meetings today, although the dates for asking questions sent are known more than one year in advance, I will ask the question about the content of the food advice that his ministry shares in the advert campaign Our Super Meat, Our Super Food. In general, I have warned him about ethical and environmental aspects of this action before. Nothing has changed, even worse, as the ministry continues to deceive, it has invested a million and a half euros. For example, in recent issues of Youth, we have been able to read an article that convinces us that if we want to maintain a healthy level of iron in our blood, we must eat red meat. This is very beautifully summed up by the graph you find on the Internet with an article with the same address, where you find a meal, and it says here that from beef steak, you get 58% of all iron. So after reading this graph with lay eyes, one would conclude that red meat is the best source of iron at all. Any approximately computer-written citizen of this country can do the same as I do, go online and see what it's really like with iron content in certain forms of nutrition. You will find the following, in beef steak is 2.7 milligrams per 100 grams, more like dry apricots, 4.7 milligrams, twice as many in tofu, three times as many in soybeans, eight times as many in oats, ten times more in shells, and in some algae a hundred times more. My first question for the Minister is: How can the Ministry of Food share such advice? The second question, if the Minister were here today, would probably answer me in a similar way to that already in the article, saying that there is a chemical form of iron in the flesh, which is absorbed better in the human body than iron, which is found in foodstuffs of animal origin. You can go to the World Health Organization website and you will find the following, that the chemical iron promoted by the Ministry is better, carcinogenic, so that after more than 800 studies red meat is classified in category 2A, that is potentially carcinogen foods, processed meat advertised by the Ministry, and into the category of one carcinogen food, including tobacco, alcohol and asbestos. Therefore, my second question is for the Minister: Can you answer me which diet studies have been addressed in this regard, if at all, and if you can [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u197	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the second round of questions from Members. Mr Jan Mahnic will raise the question to the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petar Gasperšić.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u198	Thank you, Vice President. Mr Minister, when I speak to the former Members, who were, say, members of the Infrastructure Committee in the 2008-2011 term, and bring a debate to the then Director of DRSC, Mr Gregor Fick, everyone says, "Here, this was the King of the Bandits." And when he left, we can see that the curbs, or at least their construction, had gone. During its management of the DRSC, important movements were also made both for the Polish bypass, according to the South Pole, as well as for the bypass in Gorenja village. We know that carriages are an extremely important part of road infrastructure, as they contribute to a more favourable environment and, above all, release traffic jams. Mr Minister, in the 2018 and 2019 budget there is quite a bit more money for infrastructure if we remember that performance – I think that this was one of my first questions in this mandate – you have somehow divided the infrastructure area or budget into three parts, 150, 250 and 350 million according to the projects, saying, the first budget somehow to maintain the current situation, the second, to complete all projects and the third, to start a new one. Since it's quite a bit of money, I'd like to know: Can we expect the construction of new railings? In particular, I have in mind two railways, a railway through the Jury, which would significantly unload the existing road that runs through the centre of Žirov and also contribute to a better economy. Since the road is already being reconstructed, which leads from Žirov through Rout to Logatec and then to the highway connection, and that also the road from Škofje archa to Žirov along the Poljanska valley is regulated or some critical sections are regulated and also provided with funds in the budget, I am interested in: How did things move? Do they follow the guidelines that we have drawn together with the mayor of the municipality of Jury, Mr. Janez Jacqueline, when we were with you, and then a few times later on the direction? The second thing that is also fine is a sieve, or northern diocese. I want to know: How far are you with this project? How do you plan the process of construction and reconstruction at these sections according to the financial capabilities given?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Dr. Peter Gaspersich, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u200	Thank you, President, for your word. Thank you, too, Member Jean Mahnič, for the question raised. I must say that I am pleased with these issues, which concern investment in road infrastructure as well as rail infrastructure, because we can tell you about the progress made in this mandate after many years of underinvestment resulting from the economic crisis, we know. I don't know if Mr Ficko was the king of the railroads or not, as you called him at the time, but we can say that we now have the new kings of the railroads, and the new kings of the third development axis, and the new kings of the modernisation of the Slovenian railways, and perhaps even more of the kings of the second track. This is where great efforts are being made to move these projects, and I think the results are already visible, as investment in road and rail infrastructure has increased over the last two years. If we had less than €100 million a year at the beginning of this road mandate for both regular and investment maintenance – and of course this was not enough for intensive investment to ensure that our road network would not deteriorate – now we have finally managed to reverse this trend, and these investments, both regularly and investment maintenance, have reached a level of 200 million, which is the level at which we can at a certain time for several years, we expect to bring the level or state of the Slovenian road network back to acceptable levels. That's as much as possible a few sections that are in bad or very bad shape. As a question, I have got a very general question about the construction of the shells, and I will answer it in principle first. This year we built 5 bonds, one of which is already completed, and 4 are still in construction, namely: the Obligatory Road of the town of Godovic; here is the construction of an investment of almost one million euros; then here is the North Deployable Road in Bled, the second and third phases of a good 4 million euros; the Krško Oblast is built; the main building is the bridge near Žadovnice and together with connecting roads; the connection to the municipal road is 4,7 million euros; the southern coast of Murska Sobota is built in the value of a good 6 million euros; and it was built, as it is said, the Sela bond in the construction of the Dragari-Osilnica road of 360 thousand euros. The total value of all these investments, i.e. all these bonds, is €16 million. Let me also say that the construction of Slovenska Bistrica is also planned, where an idea project is being developed. In the following year, construction will begin on at least three new bypasses, in Kidrič, Tolmin and the Proletar Brigade Road in Maribor. Together with the Municipality of Lenart we are also preparing investment documentation for Lenart, so these activities are quite something. With regard to the two bonds for which you specifically asked, these are the Giri Oblast and the village bypass, but unfortunately I cannot give you any concrete answers here, at exactly what stage they are. They are not in the investment plan for the following year, so that more accurate information on when they are planned and at what stage their willingness is, can then be provided in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Mr. Jan Mahnic, are you asking for an answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u202	Thank you, Mr. Hainz. Maybe, Minister, you didn't understand me correctly when I complimented someone, far from playing somebody. Even with the current leadership, with Mr Willenpart, with Mr Kordin, Mr Topolk, we are working very well at the local level, but I have highlighted the gentleman, who at that time, some things that have been waiting for years and years, have, however, led to some stage, so that today we can also drive through these carriages. But I'm surprised that you said, especially for the Municipality of Jury, that parts won't start next year because I think that's contrary to what we said when the mayor and I sat at the table. As I understand it, there is also an invitation to tender in January, so you really surprised me. I can say that I am quite shocked, and I would ask you to, indeed, inform me in writing about everything, both the Giro bypass, at least for the first phase of Petrol from the football field, as well as the Selska Valley or the bypass that will surround Škofja Loko, this is called the northern diocese. I would ask if we could reply by Friday at the latest next week so that we know where we are before Christmas and that we can explain the real picture and the real situation to people on the ground. Because according to what you said, the Agreement was different, and I hope that the information you will bring on paper will be different from those you have just said. [[…]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Dr. Peter Gaspersich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u204	Here I have been provided with data on these major investments that will be activated in the coming year, which does not mean that any activity on these bonds will not be available in the following year, and we will indeed prepare accurate data for both the jury and the agricultural bypass in a written reply, which will be prepared within a few days. I think it's probably this week. This, of course, does not mean that we will not be doing anything on these projects in the coming year if it may sound as if they are now excluded. I just don't have any information on them here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-11-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u205	Thank you very much. That was the last question. To the President of the Government, ministers and ministers, I thank you for the answers given. I hereby end the 1st item of the agenda, which we will continue tomorrow, on 12 December, when the National Assembly will decide on the proposed decisions in the framework of the votes. I am also adjourning the 36th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m.
